Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Time Warner First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Doug Shapiro SVP Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Well thanks a lot and good morning everyone.
This morning we issued 2 press releases: One detailing our results for the first quarter and the other reaffirming our 2011 full year business outlook.
Before we begin there are two items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's on our site.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Thank you and with that I'll turn the call over the Jeff.
Thanks Doug and thanks for listening in this morning.
I'm very pleased with how we started off the year.
We posted strong metrics this quarter including almost 20% revenue growth at our Networks segment.
And while we knew coming in that we faced tough profit comparisons this quarter our results came in right where we expected putting us firmly on track to achieve our outlook for the full year.
We're also making a lot of progress toward our longer-term strategic objectives.
In particular our efforts to allow consumers to buy our content once and then access it on whatever device they want wherever and whenever they want a set of initiatives that we call Content Everywhere continue to gather momentum.
John will talk about our financial results in detail in a few minutes.
But first I'd like to highlight some of the key operational and strategic milestones that we have achieved over the past few months.
And I'll start with Turner where our investment in must-see sports is really paying off.
Of course the big story this quarter was our NCAA coverage.
It was a huge success commercially and creatively and a big boost for the TBS TNT and truTV brands.
Our collaboration with CBS worked even better than we'd anticipated in every way: ratings financial performance quality of the coverage and integration of our sales efforts.
It was the most watched tournament since 2005 and traffic for March Madness On Demand was up over 60%.
We also surpassed our expectations for ad sales which powered Turner to over 30% ad revenue growth in the quarter.
Our investment in sports is also paying off with the NBA.
The 2010-2011 regular season was the most watched in Turner's 27 years of airing the NBA and it was up more than 40% over last year.
That momentum has continued into the playoffs making TNT the #1 network on basic cable in April and on some nights making TNT the #1 network on all of television.
CNN's performance this quarter was a testament to the critical role it plays in America and throughout the world.
In the midst of the catastrophe in Japan and unrest in the Middle East CNN’s prime time ratings were up more than 30% during the quarter while both of its cable news competitors saw declines.
This shows that when news breaks viewers seek out the breadth of coverage the exceptional journalism and the trusted brand that only CNN offers.
It also shows why CNN is always indispensable to its affiliates even if ratings sometimes fluctuate quarter-to-quarter.
You're probably curious to get our view on the upcoming upfront.
I won't be too specific.
But with the current premiums in the scatter market very low levels of cancellations and supply constraints at most of the broadcast networks all the indicators are very positive.
The combination of our strong brands high-quality programming and talented sales force makes us confident that our pricing will again be near the top end of the industry range across broadcast and Cable.
At HBO our investments in high-quality content are also paying off.
Last month we debuted Game of Thrones to tremendous critical acclaim and the premier has already attracted 8 million viewers.
When added to our roster of other tent-pole shows like True Blood and Boardwalk Empire HBO now has the strongest slate of programming in its history.
Just as this week we also launched HBO GO on mobile devices including the iPad iPhone and Android smartphones.
Our iPad app is getting rave reviews from the consumers who are using it and it was the most downloaded free iPad app in iTunes this weekend.
HBO GO is the first fully realized example of what TV Everywhere can be.
And to those of you who've seen it you know that it represents a quantum leap in the consumer value of subscribing to HBO.
Besides all the benefits it provides to HBO and to HBO subscribers we think it could also substantially increase consumer awareness of the TV Everywhere concept and accelerate momentum for the initiative across the industry.
Over the course of the year we intend to steadily introduce new features including some that HBO can uniquely provide and expand availability to additional tablets and connected devices.
HBO GO is now available through almost all of our major distributors reaching about 80% of our subscriber base.
Time Warner Cable and Cablevision are the main exceptions.
We're optimistic that these distributors will also realize the benefits of providing their highest revenue subscribers all this additional value at no extra cost.
Turning to our film and TV production businesses.
Warner Bros.
had a relatively light release late this quarter but we're optimistic about the schedule for the rest of the year which includes The Hangover Part I Green Lantern the eagerly anticipated finale of the Harry Potter franchise Happy Feet 2 and Sherlock Holmes 2.
We're also extremely well positioned at Warner Bros TV.
As you know we have a great syndication pipeline this year most notably headlined by The Big Bang Theory.
And although it's often overlooked keep in mind that the strong advertising environment benefits Warner Bros.
too.
For many of our first on-and-off net syndicated shows Warner makes up a big portion of our revenue.
So while it's too early to talk about our pickups this year we're feeling optimistic as we head into the broadcast upfronts in the next couple of weeks both in terms of our powerful lineup of returning shows and in terms of new pilots.
With our strong film slate the momentum in our TV business and several promising games we continue to expect Warner will post record profits this year.
I also want to talk for a moment about the important progress we've made toward our key home video digital initiatives over the last few months.
As home video transactions continue to transition to digital we have 2 main goals.
First we want to advantage our most profitable distribution channels; and second we're working hard to make digital ownership more compelling for consumers.
Toward these ends we became the first studio to make it possible to rent movies through Facebook.
And last week we launched our test of premium VOD called Home Premier by offering the movie Hall Pass through DirecTV.
Similar to what we've done with other new windows over the next few months we'll expand the test to other titles and other distributors and then evaluate the impact.
This week we also agreed to acquire Flixster a social network for movie fans.
We'll use the Flixster brand and platform to launch several initiatives that aim to dramatically improve the consumer proposition of owning digital movies and we'll do that in a studio-agnostic way that should benefit the whole industry.
We will share more details in time.
But in short order we plan to expand the functionality of Flixster to allow consumers to organize and access their digital movie collections on whatever device they like as well as buy and rent movies.
Finally at Time Inc.
During the quarter we remain focused on outperforming the industry and maintaining the right cost structure.
Like our other businesses we also focused on giving consumers access to our content on more devices.
We launched SI All Access which enables Sports Illustrated readers to pay one price to get the print edition as well as a digital edition and to have it accessible online or on Android tablets and smartphones.
And we just reached agreement with Apple to enable our print subscribers to access the iPad versions of Time Sports Illustrated and FORTUNE at no extra cost.
Before I hand it off to John one final note.
As you probably noticed this quarter we bought back about $1 billion of our stock.
That's double the quarterly pace of last year and it represents about 2.5% of our equity base in just one quarter.
This step reflects our commitment to continue to enhance stockholder returns and our confidence in the value of our stock our competitive position and our growth prospects.
And with that I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
During my remarks I'll be referring to a presentation that is now available on our website.
So let me begin with the first slide which shows the highlights for the quarter.
Last quarter I talked about our plans to be even more aggressive this year pursuing our goals of investment growth and returns and I think we're off to a great start this year.
Heading into the year we knew as Jeff said that the first quarter would be our most challenged from a profit growth perspective.
This was due to the timing of programming investments particularly in the NCAA Tournament and the timing of our film slate which is heavily weighted towards the second half of the year.
Nevertheless we are very pleased with our strong revenue growth in the quarter and that was helped by the great performance of the NCAA which surpassed our expectations and was a major driver of advertising growth.
And while adjusted operating income was down year-over-year it came in pretty much as we expected and we firmly remain on track to meet our financial objectives for the year.
And this morning we reaffirmed our outlook for low-teens growth in adjusted EPS in 2011.
We aim to do that while investing even more in our businesses and returning even more capital to our shareholders.
During the quarter as Jeff said we repurchased about $1 billion of our shares and we paid $260 million in dividends.
That marks a significant acceleration from our previous pace of direct returns and underscores our confidence in the fundamentals of our businesses and their cash generation capabilities.
Moving over to the next slide which shows consolidated first quarter financial highlights.
Revenues were up 6% or more than $350 million year-over-year and that was led by robust growth in both Subscription and Advertising revenues.
Content revenues were down year-over-year and that was due primarily to the tough comps at the studio.
Overall operating expenses grew over 10% causing adjusted operating income to decline by 10% year-over-year.
This quarter the programming production and marketing expenses were up a lot and much of that was due to the costs of the NCAA Tournament.
Over the remainder of the year we expect that these expenses should grow in the mid-single digits.
So margin trends should improve as the year progresses.
In general we're continuing our efforts to fund investment in high-quality content and other revenue-generating areas by reallocating capital away from overhead.
That was evident again this quarter.
Beyond programming production and marketing as well as acquisitions our expenses grew only in the low-single digits year-over-year.
Continuing to move down the P&amp;L.
Adjusted EPS declined 5% in the quarter.
That was a smaller decline as compared to adjusted operating income and that's because of our ongoing share repurchase program.
Turning now to our segment highlights and let's begin at the Networks division where we had very strong revenue growth at both Turner and HBO.
Advertising revenues were up 31%.
This was driven largely by both the NCAA coverage on our networks and the generally strong domestic pricing environment.
Our domestic entertainment networks which includes kids and young adults grew advertising over 30% in the quarter.
Domestic news was up in the high single digits and that was helped by the improved audience delivery at CNN.
International Advertising revenue grew over 50% in the quarter and growth here was helped by some transactions we've done in the past year.
And if you look through those Advertising revenues were up single digits.
Growth was much stronger than that in our European and Latin American entertainment businesses which were both up strong double digits on an organic basis.
But Asia and International News were negatively impacted by the events in the Middle East and Japan.
And as a result of that they were both down in the quarter.
So far in the second quarter domestic scatter pricing remains robust up 20% to 30% over the upfront and cancellations remain low.
We obviously won't get the same magnitude of lift in the second quarter from the NCAA Tournament.
But we still expect very very healthy year-over-year growth.
And as Jeff mentioned we feel extremely well positioned heading into the upfront.
Subscription revenue growth remained really terrific in the first quarter up 9%.
That reflects consistent strong growth trends domestically as well as continued expansion in growth internationally.
Moving on content revenues were up almost 50% and that was led by the strong demand for HBO's original programming including The Pacific Sex and the City and Boardwalk Empire.
Adjusted operating income was up 2% in the quarter as the Networks grew.
There were 2 reasons why year-over-year growth was so modest during the quarter.
The first obviously is the NCAA Tournament where we recognized the significant majority of the costs for the year during the first quarter when the tournament was aired.
Most of the remaining costs will be recognized in the second quarter and beyond that non-NCAA-related programming expenses also grew at a higher rate in the first quarter as compared to what we expect for the full year but that was really due just to timing.
So before I move on here let me just quickly pause and give you an update on HBO subscriber counts.
We said coming into the year that we expected the U.S.
subscriber count to stabilize this year and I'm happy to report that that's exactly what we've seen so far this year.
So we feel pretty good about that.
Let me turn now to film on the next slide.
And as Jeff said this is a very light quarter for us.
And again we knew coming into the quarter that both revenue and adjusted operating income would be down significantly year-over-year.
This was due to the tough comparisons in both theatrical and home video and a 2011 release slate that is more weighted towards later quarters.
Last year's first quarter for example benefited from the strong theatrical performances of Sherlock Holmes and The Blind Side and we just didn't have any comparable titles this year.
The Blind Side was also particularly strong on home video for us.
That comparison along with significantly fewer releases was the largest factor in the 21% decline in home video revenue in the quarter.
On a more positive note the performance of our television product was very strong in the quarter and we have really been pleased with the initial home video release sales of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 which was released last month.
This underscores the continued strong demand in home entertainment for our event films.
Looking ahead we continue to anticipate record film profits in 2011.
Our release slate starts to pick up at the second quarter with the theatrical releases of The Hangover II and the Green Lantern.
In addition to the Harry Potter home video release we have a great games lineup with Mortal Kombat 9 and LEGO Pirates of the Caribbean.
That momentum should continue as the year progresses with the actual releases like the final Harry Potter and Happy Feet 2 as well as the syndication sale of Big Bang Theory.
So we feel very good about the year here.
Moving over to Publishing.
Advertising revenues were essentially flat in the quarter but the reported growth rate here was affected by the transfer of management of SI.com and Golf.com to Turner and the divestiture of certain titles at IPC.
Excluding these 2 items overall Advertising revenues were up 4% in the quarter and digital Advertising revenues were up double digits.
Looking ahead to Q2 we anticipate underlying domestic advertising trends to remain positive.
Turning over to subscription revenues for a moment the majority of the decline in the first quarter was in our International business which was impacted by the divestitures at IPC that I just mentioned.
Domestic subscription revenue was also somewhat lower however due partly to continued pressure at newsstands.
But we are seeing subscription fundamentals begin to stabilize.
And as the year progresses we expect to see an improvement in year-over-year revenue trends particularly in the second half of the year.
That reflects both favorable trends in renewals as well as the ramp up of new retail partnerships.
Operating income at Time Inc.
was up 26% with margins up 160 basis points.
This is the sixth consecutive quarter of year-over-year margin improvement at Time Inc.
Total expenses here were down nearly $15 million over last year as we continue to remain focused on cost management.
For the year we continue to expect overall expenses at Publishing to be relatively flat as compared to 2010.
Moving to the next slide which contains our 2011 outlook.
Let me just pause for a second and talk about our expectations for the second quarter.
As I mentioned before coming into the year we anticipated that the first quarter would be our most challenged from a profit growth rate perspective and we absolutely expect profits to grow in the second quarter year-over-year.
But keep in mind that we still expect to incur modest losses on the NCAA contract.
And at our Film division we expect P&amp;A spending to be higher than the prior year and we also expect to incur restructuring costs in the neighborhood of $25 million to $30 million.
So for Q2 we expect that year-over-year growth in adjusted operating income will clearly be considerably better than the first quarter but will lag what we will see in each of the third and fourth quarters of this year.
Growth should accelerate significantly in the second half as we benefit from an improving film slate a strong syndication lineup and lower programming expense growth at the networks.
Turning to the next slide which looks at our free cash flow.
We generated approximately $700 million of free cash in the quarter.
That's a good start for the year but somewhat below the year ago levels.
And the decline year-over-year was due mainly to the significant increase in working capital and that was primarily attributable to the timing of TV-syndication receipts and lower home video sales during the 2010 holiday season.
Interest payments cash taxes and CapEx were also somewhat higher.
Looking at the final slide which takes a look at our net debt.
We ended the quarter with $13.5 billion in net debt that's up about $650 million compared to the end of last year and that's due to the increased pace of direct returns to shareholders.
We returned as I mentioned over $1.2 billion during the quarter including $1 billion in share repurchases.
So our total direct returns were up 60% over the first quarter a year ago.
During the quarter we also spent about $160 million on M&amp;A activity and that related primarily to our acquisition of additional interest in HBO's operations in Latin America as well as increased ownership interest in CME.
We saw this as a nice opportunity to further increase our exposure to businesses and regions where we see significant growth opportunities in the coming years.
These acquisitions are consistent with our focus on international networks which we expect to be one of the biggest growth drivers for the company over the next several years.
As a result of these actions our leverage ratio is now almost 2.2x.
That's up from around 2x at year end.
That's consistent with our plans to move closer to our target leverage of about 2.5x by the year end this year in an effort to better optimize our capital structure.
One last thing to note.
Last month we issued about $2 billion of public debt.
We were able to access the markets at very attractive rates while further extending the average length of our debt maturities.
As you know we manage our capital structure with a goal of striking the right balance between maintaining a strong liquid balance sheet with solid credit ratings and actively deploying our capital to invest in our businesses make acquisitions and to return capital to our shareholders.
So we're quite pleased with our progress that we made on our capital plan so far this year.
And so with that being concluded let me now turn the call back over to Doug to start the Q&amp;A part of this session.
Okay thanks.
Let's get the Q&amp;A started.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Michael Nathanson with Nomura.
I have one for Jeff and one for John.
Jeff you mentioned how pleased you were about the NCAA and how well it performed.
I just want to say like there's a general feeling in the market that CBS made a good deal by getting rid of losses they were going to have and moving those losses to Turner.
So if you could talk a bit about how big losses were this year for you and how do you see the trend over time for the NCAA deal helping Turner.
Yes we think that this is going to be a very profitable deal over time and it's actually performing in revenue terms ratings terms as well better than we expected.
But because of the structure of the deal over the 14 years where a lot of the advantage comes to us because we have 3 networks in the deal and because we have some affiliate fee upside that we think is very large we don't have as much versus CBS in the first year.
And I think John who explained it pretty well in his descriptive remark should flesh it out.
So I'll just give it to you.
Sure.
Let me attempt to clarify because the nature of the agreement is in some respects pretty simple.
But then there's a loss cap calculation that's a little complicated.
Let me begin by saying economically we share revenues and costs equally with CBS subject to the loss caps and I'm going to come back to that in a minute.
But as Jeff said that means that we're going to share programming rights fees up to nearly $11 billion over the 14-year term and that includes fees as well as production costs and ad revenues to be shared equally by Turner and CBS.
CBS losses however are limited to certain pre-specified annual amounts and I think we've included those in our public filings.
In the first quarter we did trigger the loss cap but the amount incurred under that cap was not significant at all.
We think it's important to note that the loss cap is based on a cash cost not a book cost.
That's very important to understand and the calculation is the same for us as it is for CBS.
The cash cost increases very very slowly over the 14-year life of the agreement.
And going into the agreement we fully expected that we were going to be losing money on a cash basis in the early years in the contract.
But just to reiterate what Jeff said we fully expect to make that up as we move into the agreement and we're highly confident only supported even more by the performance from this Tournament that this is going to be incredibly accretive on an NPV basis in the fullness of time.
And then the question is “Why did we agree to cap CBS losses?” Well put simply we just feel like this is a terrific deal for us and capping CBS' losses made sense to us because we believe frankly we have more upside than them.
We get more of the risk and we'll get more of the reward as the nature of our relationship changes considerably over the life of the agreement.
As Jeff said it's going to be a significant factor in our future affiliate fee agreements and even the number of games moves over time and we'll have 2/3 of the games by the end of the contract.
So we're very very confident in our ability to monetize it and we feel really good on all fronts.
Mike did you have another question? Yes the other question would be I know this is another hard question to answer which is if you back out the NCAA advertising growth this quarter from your domestic ad growth what would approximate your domestic ad growth close to apples-to-apples as you can get? Let me try to help a little bit there and please just know that this requires some forecasting and estimating.
So look I think I said in my proactive remarks the trends in the first quarter remain very very strong on an organic basis and you know that we had strong organic trends in Q4.
Much of that continued into Q1.
And please appreciate that it really isn't possible to be exactly precise because the NCAA Tournament took up a lot of our prime time in the quarter.
And so it displaced the considerable amount of inventory that was programmed differently last year.
And as a result of the NCAA we programmed our networks very differently when you had was type of big high-profile sporting event.
For example we had significantly fewer originals in the first quarter this year than we did a year ago.
On TNT for example we had half the number of originals.
Last year we had about 25.
This year we only had about 13.
So it's not as simple as just pulling out the NCAA revenue.
You have to make a number of estimates.
But to just try to be transparent we're estimating total revenue growth domestically and internationally if you normalize for the NCAA would be in the high single digits in the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Spencer Wang with Crédit Suisse.
Just 2 quick questions.
Jeff last week in an interview you talked about how you expect Time Warner to exceed everybody's expectations.
So I was wondering if you could maybe clarify what you meant by that.
And then secondly given that it seems like you're pretty pleased about the performance of NCAA was wondering if you could just share with us your thoughts on investing more in sports in the future.
Spencer I appreciate the question.
I think that the comments were taken a little bit out of context and what the context was was Charlie Rose and I talking in the Tribeca Film Festival was a question about "How do we think about M&amp;A over time versus buybacks?" And basically what we were discussing was the fact that there seemed to be pretty widespread concerns about the sustainability of really all the media businesses including the Time Warner ones and of growth over the long run.
So what I was saying was sharing my confidence that given the industries that we operate in and the position we have the strength of our assets essentially the very stable and superior performance of all of our businesses in terms of earnings and revenues did I think that we will continue to grow fairly steadily over the long run.
And what I was saying was if we're right over time and we have been so far then we will outperform what seemed to be the consensus expectations of not only our company but most of the media companies over the long run and that's why we're buying back our stock.
I certainly wasn't referring or focusing and certainly Charlie wasn't asking about this quarter.
He's not a financial analyst.
In terms of the sports-rights competition it's a pretty important part of the offering at Turner.
But we're focused on having the right sport and I think John was just explaining the power of NCAA.
But let's remember and add to that that we're very happy with the performance of the NBA National Basketball Major League Baseball as well as NCAA.
And so we will continue to evaluate potential opportunities in the future.
But the way we look at it the TBS and TNT models are built on a pretty unique and fairly powerful balance of sports original series and acquired series and some very powerful movies and we think that's optimized mix to remain pretty attractive not just for viewers and advertisers but for distributors as well.
Your next question comes from the line of John Janedis with UBS.
Jeff can you talk a bit more broadly about your views on syndicated programming and programming costs throughout the exports.
Meaning as you acquire more expensive product is the return on that investment expected to decline? And to what extent do you need to boost in affiliate fees to make the math work? Syndicated products series products is getting more and more valuable because there are more buyers.
And like for us we're actually in an ever stronger position giving the pipeline that we provide to the big 4 American broadcast networks and increasingly all the cable networks.
So there's a lot going on there with some of the reality shows going on broadcast network TV.
It makes scripted shows I think more valuable.
With the retrans support coming to broadcast networks it makes them a little healthier and able to sustain economics.
That's very helpful for not only Warner's which is the lead supplier for this globally and in the United States.
But it also helps our Cable Networks because given our unique position of reach with TBS and TNT we're one of the biggest buyers and users of hit-series programming.
And so for us the fact that the kind of economic support for making big series and making it available for syndication and then having the 2 of the leading broad-reach networks to program in syndication is a fairly virtuous circle for us.
And the international demand which is increasing for the same product simply helps us.
So overall it's a fairly strong situation.
And I think that everybody ought to rethink on the positive side the strength and value of acquired series on syndicated networks.
The only thing I would add just as a broad generality in terms of returns I mean our Cable Networks are already our highest return on capital business.
And if you look at over the last 3 4 5 years fairly consistently we've been able to grow margins.
I mean this year we've been explicit in saying that we've had a little bit of margin pressure because of the first year of the NCAA contract.
But with a 14-year deal it's going to be a significant source of growth over time and margin enhancement.
And I would suspect over the next 2 3 4 5 years again we're going to do to see margin expansion of our Cable Networks and that's how we're going to approach running.
You had a follow-up? Yes one quick follow-up.
Right at the end of last year there was a lot talk about some lower-end Cable TV packages talk about the end of those.
Anecdotally has there been any traction there or not really? Well probably a better question for them than us but our understanding is no.
Your next question comes from the line of Tony Wible with Janney.
I had a question about HBO.
I mean it seems like it's doing well.
It's selling content developing new shows.
But one of the common criticisms I hear is that HBO will ultimately be undermined by Netflix.
That being said can you expand on your comments to recent film festival welcoming Netflix into the business? It would seem to imply that I guess you see them as maybe more of a complement than a direct threat.
As you all know I want to talk about Netflix and I love to talk about HBO.
So this is my favorite subject.
Let me just clarify our view of subscription VOD and Netflix.
Let's start by saying that HBO is a subscription VOD service.
So is Netflix and our view of Netflix has been very consistent.
I've tried at times to be humorous about it sometimes to make a point.
So let me try to be clear.
We think there's definitely a role for subscription VOD services library services and Netflix in the ecosystem.
And what is the role? Well clearly it's a way to give consumers access to a deep library of content that they couldn't easily get before particularly older shows although they're probably going to be able to get them more easily in other places now as time goes on.
But it's been a useful thing to have subscription services for product that you couldn't get before.
It's particularly also had -- I think there's been some utility for viewers in being able to get serialized shows that don't play as well on traditional cable networks or in syndication.
So from that point of view it can be good for consumers.
And because SVOD monetizes some content that couldn't be monetized before and it monetizes some content better than it was monetized before particularly the older library stuff.
Then in that sense you can add money to the ecosystem and that's good for everybody and performs a useful function.
But what we've always said is that as you think of those positives you need to make sure that SVOD doesn't devalue the content and disrupt the ecosystem.
So basically our view has been that it is not usually the right outlet for the newer higher value content that is functioning much more powerfully for viewers on other kinds of networks in other windows.
We have said because of all that we do not think that it would be a suitable substitute for multichannel TV for most consumers.
And therefore we don't think it'll upend the  multichannel TV business.
We've been basically trying to emphasize that point and so there's been I think a little understandable but somewhat overblown concern about cord cutting.
But I'll leave that to further questions.
And if I could follow up I mean what gives you confidence I guess about Netflix not displacing the time that consumers have for entertainment? Or any kind of cord shaving or cord cutting? Yes okay.
Well thank you for asking.
We watch it closely.
I'm sure all of you do but we haven't seen it yet.
Let's look at SVOD generally and start with Netflix which is certainly the leading entity there.
I think Netflix has something around 23 million subs in the U.S.
We believe there's only about 4 million households that have broadband and no multichannel TV and that number is almost unchanged over the year since Netflix started its streaming or watch-instantly service.
So even though people seem to like the Netflix service evidenced by the number of subs it hasn't led to very many Netflix subs cutting the cord.
And looking forward it's hard to see how subscription VOD becomes a replacement for multichannel TV because as far as we can see it probably won't economically be able to offer a lot of the current shows sports live events first on of things of all kinds that are available on all of the high-value networks.
And we don't think there's very many subscribers that are going to be willing to give those things up.
And in general we don't think U.S.
consumers want less choice.
The record of the last 30 40 years has been they want more choice.
And just to really acid test that there are already a number of stripped-down TV packages that are available and very few consumers take them.
Just take DISH Network has a focus on value.
It's lowest priced packaged is $24.99.
Most people don't take that which is why the average revenue at DISH is closer to $70.
And then add the last part of the puzzle which is -- and you can see it this week with HBO GO TV Everywhere versions VOD availability for all the networks everybody loves is going to make the current network subscriptions foremost among them HBO even more powerful and it fits right into the desire that as SVOD services have shown is a pretty strong desire among consumers.
So all this really suggests that things like Netflix are welcome additions to the infrastructure.
They can monetize value for companies like Warner that maybe there wasn't in terms of efficiency for all their product wasn't as available as before.
And they're likely to remain complementary to the strong multichannel brands that are getting stronger all the time and that are about to be more available on VOD.
Great and all those are very great points.
I appreciate the feedback.
Your next question comes from the line of Jessica Reif-Collins (sic) [Jessica Reif-Cohen] with BAML [Bank of America Merrill Lynch].
Jeff I was just wondering if we could go back to your Charlie Rose conversation and talk a little bit about your strategic positioning over the next couple of years.
I mean do you feel a need to change your asset mix in any way whether through acquisition or disposal? I mean do you need more scale internationally or domestically? Do you want complementary assets? Do you really need to own Publishing? We don't feel the need absolutely not the need to change any of the asset mixes.
We feel that Publishing is a very strong performer relative to its competitive set and it's undergoing a pretty interesting upside with the tablets coming along.
And so whether it's in Publishing whether it's Networks whether it's Film production or TV series production we're already operating at basically the lead share against all our competition.
I'll be then saying "Well what about internet?" So we don't need to do anything in that area and we've been opportunistic.
We are able to do whatever we would desire to do if it came down to an acquisition and we don't need to do those if anything comes up in the competitive set.
We can afford to pass it let it go to a competitor and not weaken our competitive position.
On the other hand we if we acquire something it probably has more leverage to make it more synergistically a value creation than other buyers.
So that's how we look at it.
We haven't seen anything that has motivated us lately in those areas.
If you go overseas we have done some acquisitions and we've done it for a scale to advantage both our strong position with global networks like HBO which is #1 in every market it operates in; CNN and Cartoon channel (sic) [Cartoon Network] which are usually at the top of the global pack in whatever genre they're serving.
And so where we've been mostly had some reasonably significant acquisitions in South America which has led us to be the #1 network group in South America across all of Latin and Central America.
We've done a significant thing in Eastern Europe with CME.
We've made some moves in India which haven't so far performed as well as we'd like.
And that's basically what we've done so far.
Your next question comes from the line of David Miller with Caris &amp; Company.
So Jeff just trying to figure out just given this environment which on a national basis from an advertising perspective there's obviously just hugely robust and it's clearly a sellers' market going into the upfront on both broadcast and Cable.
I know you can't really prognosticate on what you're going to do in terms of holding back inventory.
But in the past with the environment like this one a sellers' market where in general consensus expectations are that you guys are probably going to bag low double-digit CPM growth.
What's that threshold that you're comfortable with in terms of holding back inventory if you don't get what you want? Is it 68% 70% 75%? Again I'm not asking you to prognosticate on what you're going to do.
I'm just asking on what you've done in the past.
I'd love to tell you but I'm not going to tell because we obviously manage that in a fluid market and the Turner asset I think that's mostly what you're referring to.
They are quite good at making that trade-off and so what I could say generally is that the second quarter ad outlook per [indiscernible] is very healthy.
We're seeing 20% to 30% increases over the upfront.
Sports has been particularly strong.
Some of that comes from the NBA strength that John was mentioning.
And remember we displaced those programming a little bit to do that.
So that's a bit of a mix issue.
As we know the cancellations have been minimal and we're going to continue to benefit from the strong upfront pricing that we have.
So the pricing should be pretty strong.
But as you asked there's a lot of things to balance in terms of when do you move the price and when do you hold back and it's really too early to say.
I think we'll be at the top of the competitive set in terms of our ad sales performance and our pricing position.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
A question for Jeff and John.
Jeff how does 2Q shake out for a number of original episodes on Turner versus last year given a lot of series were pushed out of 1Q due to the NCAA? Wait what are you asking? I'm just asking how many original TV episodes will be on Turner sort of year-over-year because it drives sensitivity on ad revenue right? I think in first quarter you've had a lot fewer original TV episodes on Turner because series were pushed out due to the NCAAs right? So are you asking sequentially or year-over-year? Year-over-year.
No in the second quarter? Second quarter? I don't even know right off the top head.
I mean my gut reaction would be it'd be roughly comparable.
But I just don't know.
Doug I can probably get to back to you offline.
But I don't think we have that.
Obviously the first quarter was notable because of the NCAA which was new.
But second quarter we'll have to get back to you with the details.
All right.
Let me change just my question for Jeff then.
Given the comment on SVOD services library services providing value to consumers how much upside then is left at Warner Bros.
selling library content to Netflix? And I think you've been more conservative than some peers on that.
Well not really.
We already licensed some content to Netflix from Warner's.
And we are and have been open to the idea of licensing more to whether it's Netflix or other SVOD services and there are a few rustling around in the forest of things.
So we've just been waiting for the right deal.
But what we have said is that when we license our content to SVOD services that our priorities are really 2 things.
One is maximizing the value of the content.
And we think for certain content SVOD services like Netflix can do that.
And also secondly to make sure we don't damage the ecosystem or devalue our products in the process we'd like it to be incremental really for any given deal and we'd like it to be incremental in the sense that it establishes a healthy bidding situation for the future.
Okay and then the question for John.
You've mentioned confidence in cash generation capabilities.
I think you've ranged between 40% and 50% of EBITDA in the past generated as free cash flow.
Is there a percentage that you would suggest investors should think about for 2011 or beyond? Well I think for 2011 specifically we haven't given direct guidance.
We did say that conversion would be down somewhat as compared to last year.
There's a number of reasons why.
I think cash tax is being up is one big reason why.
The second big reason if you look at -- and we've said that we expect a record operating profit performance at Warner Bros.
this year.
So clearly a portion of that growth is coming from syndication revenues and profits being recognized where we'll receive cash over time over the life of the agreement whereas the accounting rules require that you recognize the revenue upon availability which would be this year.
So I think it's better to talk about the longer term which is next 2 3 4 5 years.
We have said that conversion should go up again beginning next year.
And I think if you look at just the free cash flow generation capability of our businesses we don't see any difference looking back as to looking forward.
In other words we don't anticipate that the capital intensity is going to change very much.
We don't anticipate that our conversions will be the depressed on any long-term sustainable basis.
So we continue to believe that we're going to continue to generate free cash flow at very very healthy percentages.
I just want to add one thing.
Maybe it's what you're asking.
If you were trying to -- remember that the original series on Turner will pick up in the summer.
They will.
So that is true that in this summer season we have a lot of our originals coming back and the Turner Network has a big success running with not only Closer but Rizzoli &amp; Isles and several new shows that they launched.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Greenfield with BTIG.
LLC</strong> Two questions.
One you said last week that movies do most of their business in the first few weeks after their release then they're out of the theaters generally.
Wondering why then the premium VOD window you're putting at 8 weeks versus at 4 which will probably get a lot more traction from a consumer standpoint.
Two do you see any benefits to splitting off HBO? It seems to be an asset that's pretty undervalued within Time Warner and was curious how you think about pursuing that type of a strategy especially if parts of HBO might not always align with other initiatives at Time Warner's other businesses.
I'll come back to HBO.
But actually they do align with the other businesses.
But let's start with the first one.
If your question was "If it's good to release films earlier by whenever 8 or some weeks out why not release them earlier still?" It's not clear yet if the trade-offs for both viewers people that buy tickets and go to movies and the whole infrastructure of exhibition that needs to support that really is a valid one even at 8 weeks out.
So we're going to have to see.
We're doing a test to see what demand does it fulfill to what extent does it under mark ticket sales which we don't intend.
But it does that.
If it does that it'll be something that we all have to rethink.
As you move it closer which I believe was your question you simply exacerbate that and it doesn't really seem at this point to be necessary.
So it may not be necessary even to the extent that the test is pegged at 8 weeks out.
So we'll see.
It's a little early to say.
What nobody wants to do is really cannibalize the theatrical window.
That's a legitimate concerns the exhibitors have and it's a concern that we share with them.
So that's so far the answer to that.
On the HBO one thanks Rich.
I've enjoyed and admired a lot of the stuff that you've been writing about.
I mean I think everybody enjoys reading these thoughts because a lot of them are very forward thinking.
I'd have to say in this case it doesn't make any sense to us to consider spinning off HBO.
I think you're right that if HBO is valued or thought to have the challenges that some have asked they're not getting it as they saw in droves over the many years I've been associated with HBO.
HBO's in a really strong position.
You should watch what happens with GO this week and begin to appreciate that.
And so if you say "Well why should we have it?" Well we love having HBO.
It's a strong performer.
It aligns really well with the scale of our other networks.
I don't suppose it's really appreciated out there the extent to which we do benefit from the leverage of having the Turner Networks and HBO both here and overseas.
So that's one thing.
We like the business in itself.
That's the second thing.
We don't think it's going to be viewed more valuably separate than part of us.
That'd be the third thing.
We do have a very strong relationship with Warner as we have always had.
It wouldn't be any better or worse if it were a separate company than it is together.
In fact we think there've been a lot of advantages running both ways at Warner and at HBO from being able to look at the world together because what happens in pay TV is that we look out about 10 years and we always have the evidence of our VOD position and the invention of VOD inside Time Warner proves that.
It wouldn't have any effect on bidding for movies.
And finally it's not HBO's intent.
It never has been to prevent consumers from accessing their legitimately purchased content.
It's pretty clear that Warner's has been one of the leaders of making digital purchase more valuable and efficient for consumers.
HBO has been a part of that and knows about it.
LLC</strong> Do you see any way that HBO could go direct to the consumer then without having to go through a multichannel operator? Well as we have said HBO does have the ability to do that and the reason that we have not done it has to with the interests as HBO assesses nothing to do with any conflict with any other part of Time Warner.
If it is worthwhile and thought by both HBO and us here at Time Warner to be a wise thing to do we'd do it.
And it doesn't really conflict with any other part of our company.
The last question comes from the line of Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Jeff and John can you talk a little bit about Turner the programming investment strategy and the programming investment growth through the year excluding the Tournament just sort of on a normalized basis.
And I'm asking in the context of the ratings at TNT and TBS and I'd love to hear you talk about where the weakness is coming from if it's original is there syndicated content; and if that changes how you think about the mix going into future seasons.
And if you're thinking at all about what might happen if there's no NBA season next year -- I think the bargaining agreement expires in July 1 I think and certainly there could be a lost season or at least a delay.
How does that impact things? And I think I'll start.
John'll see most of it.
I think the ratings were a mixed bag.
So we need to be careful focusing too much on the ratings and I think maybe your question understood that because the ratings are an important indicator.
But they're not the only indicator.
And we always talk about programming for profits which means we prioritize getting the right mix of programming as you asked and the one that's valued by consumers and advertisers and distribution partners all mixing the right balance of revenues and costs.
So the way to basically look at that it's not all ratings points are created equal.
If you dissect the ratings I'd say the trends this quarter are consistent with what we've seen for a while.
I'll just start and then John'll pick up with the facts.
In sports as you know we had very strong sports programming.
NCAA viewership was up 7% over last year and it was the highest-rated Tournament since '05.
The NBA's been very strong.
That's in sports.
In originals they did well in the quarter.
But given that we had more mix devoted of air time to sports as you and someone else have asked we have fewer originals in the quarter and we'll have more of them in the next quarter.
For acquired series we have seen some weakness in some of our acquired series.
It's been going on for a while.
Some of that is because we've had a couple of aging acquired series that aren't performing as well as we expected like Bones.
And some of it is because some of the shows we've had have been showing up on other services like SVOD which we think has hurt them.
And we think that what we've got to elevate the performance of acquired series is we've got Big Bang Theory coming to TBS and we have The Mentalist coming to TNT.
And we think that should add a significant impact and we have some sports playoffs coming this spring and originals this summer which in the short run should lift the ratings.
But John you have.
.
.
Just I think -- this'll actually be quick.
But I mean clearly our programming expense growth in the first quarter is going to be highest year-over-year growth percentage of the year.
And I think we've been pretty clear as to why that was and that was all planned for.
Coming into this year what we said was if you set aside for a moment NCAA Tournament all of the rest of our programming would be up in the high single digits and we continue to believe -- I mean that is what's is going to happen.
Remember all of these costs are under our control and largely planned for well in advance.
And so in the first quarter we have the NCAA which was a considerable percentage of the overall growth.
In addition we had some incremental investment in the higher profile programming that wasn't there a year ago including Conan.
We did on the Cartoon Network the Hall of Game.
We had some incremental investments in series like Southland.
But if you look at all other programming costs growth beyond that it was up in the mid-single digits.
So I feel really good about our ability to control the cost growth and plan for it and do it with within the architecture of how to grow earnings over time where we know where what subscription revenue growth is going to be and we've got a pretty good guess as to what ad revenue is going to be.
So hopefully that's helpful.
Yes any contingency plans on the NBA if that doesn't happen from a programming perspective? Not that we'd be willing to share on the call.
Okay.
Right but we have.
All right.
I think that's it for us but thank you very much for dialing in.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Time Warner 2011 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Doug Shapiro Senior Vice President Investor Relations for Time Warner.
Please proceed.
Well thanks.
This morning we issued 2 press releases: One detailing our results for the second quarter and the other updating our 2011 full year business outlook.
Before we begin there are 2 items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our site.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Thank you and with that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks Doug and good morning everyone.
Overall the second quarter was another pretty successful quarter for us.
We posted our highest revenue growth in 4 years up 10%.
We grew adjusted earnings per share by 20% and we continue to buy back our stock at a faster pace than last year acquiring another $1 billion worth for almost 3% of our equity base since we last reported earnings to you.
And as you saw in our outlook released this morning we remain fully on track to meet if not exceed our guidance for the full year.
More important this quarter we had significant progress toward our key strategic objectives.
We continue to invest aggressively to make sure that our businesses each remain at the top of their competitive sets.
At the same time we continue to advance to new digital business models that will enable us to thrive as technology and consumption patterns evolve.
Here's my perspective on some of the key highlights from the quarter starting in our Networks.
As you know the upfront marketplace was very strong particularly for TV.
This year the National Cable Network reportedly pulled in higher dollar commitments than broadcast for the first time ever.
Turner performed even better than its peers.
Our large-reach entertainment networks TNT and TBS both saw in its solid double-digit CPM increases putting them at the high end of all of TV broadcast or Cable.
It marks the third time in the last 4 years that our CPM increase has outstripped the average of the broadcast networks providing more evidence that we're narrowing the CPM gap in broadcast.
This strength extends beyond TNT and TBS.
Both truTV and Adult Swim saw pricing and volume increases substantially higher than the average for Cable Networks.
And our news networks also performed extremely well with CNN outpacing its cable news competitors for both CPM and volume growth.
This performance in the upfront across the entire portfolio is a broad endorsement by advertisers.
It underscores the incredible reach of our Networks the #1 and #2 reach networks on cable TNT and TBS the highest reach cable news network CNN and the growing reach of Adult Swim and truTV.
And that reflects the appeal of our brands and programming and the skill of our sales force in creating compelling marketing partnerships.
Beyond our performance in the upfront I'll spend a moment updating you on recent ratings trends.
TNT had its best quarter ever in primetime with our sports programming leading the way.
We posted fantastic results from our coverage of the NBA playoffs on TNT clearly the best in cable history and up more than 25% over last year.
We also saw strong performances from our originals on TNT our new share of Falling Skies debuted as the #1 new series launch of the year and by the way it's also been posting great numbers on our international networks.
Last month we brought back the Closer and also Rizzoli &amp; Isles which are delivering the biggest audiences of any dramas on Cable so far this year.
So that's great but we aren't satisfied with the recent ratings on some of our acquired content on TBS and TNT.
That's something we're very focused on and plan to fix.
Some of this recent performance is a reflection of the natural life cycle of acquired shows which tend to decline over time.
But we're confident that our plans to add some of the biggest hits on TV will boost viewership shows like The Big Bang Theory which is the #1 comedy on TV and it will debut on TBS at the end of the third quarter; and The Mentalist the #3 drama on TV which will start stripping on TNT next year.
We also recently struck deals to bring Castle and Hawaii Five-0 to TNT.
Keep in mind that even one successful show can have a significant impact for these networks and we think we have several in the pipeline.
As a result we expect these moves will improve ratings starting with TBS in the fourth quarter.
Looking across channels portfolio we had solid ratings performance from our other networks during the quarter.
TruTV posted its best second quarter primetime ratings ever solidifying its position as a top-tier cable network.
Cartoon Network posted double-digit gains in primetime in its key demo and Adult Swim maintained its dominant position in late-night TV.
And notably CNN was up over 20% in its key demo again outperforming its cable news competitors.
It's further evidence that when news breaks more people turn to CNN than anywhere else.
We're looking to capitalize on that momentum as we roll out our vast primetime lineup next week.
Let's shift to HBO where our programming lineup is stronger than ever and getting stronger.
Even during the heyday of the Sopranos and Sex and the City we never had the volume of top quality original programming that we air today on HBO.
In June we concluded the first season of Game of Thrones which steered viewership steadily over the course of its run to end with over 9 million total viewers per episode.
And we debuted the fourth season of True Blood to its highest premiere ratings ever.
In fact 5 of the top 7 most highly watched series in HBO's history are currently on the network: True Blood Boardwalk Empire Game of Thrones Entourage and Hung.
Last month HBO received the most Emmy nominations of any TV network for the 11th year in a row.
Both Boardwalk Empire and Game of Thrones are nominated for outstanding drama series the first time in decades that 2 freshmen shows from the same network are nominees.
And with the richest developing slate in our history we think the momentum will keep building.
Next year we'll debut Luck a series from Michael Mann and David Milch starring Dustin Hoffman centered around the world of horse racing and another new series More As This Story Develops a new show from Aaron Sorkin.
It goes behind his hands at a cable news network.
You noticed that some are source materials [ph].
At both Turner and HBO our TV Everywhere initiatives are gaining momentum.
As you know in May we launched HBO GO on iOS and Android mobile devices.
It's still early but it's been an even bigger hit than we expected.
The mobile application has already been downloaded close to 4 million times.
Our research shows that 85% of GO users are watching much more HBO than they did before and the satisfaction levels of GO users are through the roof.
Over the rest of the year we'll widen the availability of HBO GO to include connected TVs game consoles and other connected devices and we'll keep rolling out internationally.
GO is now available throughout Central Europe.
We'll launch Brazil and Mexico toward the end of the year and we'll start to launch in Asia next year.
In addition TV Everywhere versions of Turner Networks are available to about 7 million households in the United States.
Last month we launched authenticated live streaming of CNN and headline news online and through iOS apps that have already been downloaded more than 10 million times.
We'll be launching apps for other networks in the coming months.
And Nielsen is now capturing TV Everywhere usage in its C3 data making us agnostic to whether viewers watch our shows on  TVs PCs or mobile devices.
Turning to Warner Bros.
Our Film results were mixed this quarter but the team at Warner's have a great track record of making sure the hits outweigh the misses.
While the performance of Green Lantern fell short of our expectations The Hangover Part 2 substantially exceeded them with global box office over $0.5 billion so far making it the highest grossing R-rated comedy ever.
And of course after the end of the quarter we shattered records with the opening of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2.
The records include the highest opening weekend ever both domestically and internationally.
Since its release the film has already pulled in more than $1 billion globally putting it on track to be the highest grossing film of the Harry Potter franchise.
Looking out to the remainder of the year we're very optimistic about 2 fourth quarter releases: Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows and Happy Feet 2.
And we expect to have a strong slate again in 2012.
Movies include The Dark Knight Rises and part 1 of The Hobbit among many others.
Warner Bros.
TV production also had a great quarter.
At this year's upfront Warner has placed 27 series on the broadcast schedule including 16 returning shows and 11 new shows.
That places Warner as the #1 producer of TV programming yet again this year.
As another measure of our success and growth prospects consider that our TV backlog costs $5 billion this quarter to reach its highest level ever.
I'd also like to update you briefly on the progress Warner Bros.
is making in accelerating the digital transition in home videos.
As we've discussed with you before we're working hard to make digital ownership of movies more compelling for consumers.
As part of that effort we've been a proponent of the ultraviolet initiative to enable consumers to purchase movies and TV shows and then access them from the cloud on a wide range of devices.
Beginning with the releases of Horrible Bosses and Green Lantern in the fourth quarter the vast majority of our future home video new releases will be UV-enabled.
A key part of our plan to drive usage of ultraviolet is Flixster which we purchased in May.
Today Flixster is one of the most popular applications for finding informations about movies.
And over the coming months we'll begin to roll out new upgraded versions of the Flixster service which will be deeply integrated with ultraviolet.
It will enable consumers to establish ultraviolet attempts [ph] to managing more [ph] their digital collection whether to store it locally or in the cloud to discover new contact and to share recommendations with friends.
We'll start launching the first beta version this week.
We believe this could fundamentally change how people manage and watch their movie collections and it could significantly improve the value proposition of digital ownership.
Moving on to Time Inc.
During the quarter we remained focused on outperforming the industry and maintaining the right cost structure while positioning ourselves to take advantage of new digital opportunities.
This quarter we reached agreement with Apple to enable print subscribers to People Sports Illustrated TIME and FORTUNE to access the tablet editions on their iPads at no extra charge.
In addition we've struck agreements to sell single copies digital subscriptions and bundled print and digital subscriptions of selected titles with every other major tablet manufacturer including Motorola Samsung Hewlett-Packard BlackBerry Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble’s NOOK among others.
As you may have seen this morning we announced plans to offer editions of all 21 of our domestic magazine titles on every major tablet platform by the end of this year.
Similar to what we're doing in our other businesses it's another example of the aggressive step we are taking to accelerate the digital transition and help define these new business models.
In sum we've accomplished a lot this quarter.
Heading into the second half of the year we're right on track to achieve our financial objectives.
At the same time as evidenced by our stock buyback this quarter we remain committed to providing an attractive return to shareholders.
But most important we continue to make progress on the strategic objectives that we think will position us to prosper long term.
With that I'll hand it off to John.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'm going to begin by referring to the first slide which is available on our website.
Before I review our quarterly results let me remind you first of our financial priorities.
We're focused on investing for long-term growth delivering attractive near-term results and continuing to provide significant direct returns to shareholders.
Of course any given quarter can be affected by the timing of investments and you see all that at work in the results this quarter.
We had very strong revenue and adjusted EPS growth while our margins were somewhat impacted by planned investments.
We grew revenues 10% and that's the highest growth rate since the third quarter of 2007 and that was a result of strength across all revenue categories.
Content revenue was particularly robust increasing 15% in the quarter while both Subscription and Advertising growth were also strong so that's good.
Adjusted operating income was up 6% year-over-year and that somewhat trailed the revenue growth and that's because of strategic investments such as the NCAA basketball tournament and HBO GO as well as the timing of our film slate.
These investments both set us up for accelerated earnings growth in the second half of this year and further strengthen our long-term growth prospects.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
Adjusted EPS climbed a very strong 20% and that was helped by ongoing share repurchase program.
So during the first half of the year we repurchased $2 billion of shares and that's twice as fast as our pace last year.
And this morning we updated our outlook to at least low-teens growth in adjusted EPS and that's for this year in 2011.
And that reflects our year-to-date performance plus our confidence in the remainder of the year.
So we're very much on track to achieve all financial objectives for the year.
So let me move on now and discuss our segments.
And I'll begin with our Networks where we had another quarter of very strong revenue growth.
Advertising revenues were up 11%.
Our domestic entertainment networks which includes kids and young adults grew Advertising double digits in the quarter.
Now that includes ad revenues from the NCAA contract and some small transactions.
And if you were to exclude those growth would have been in the mid-single digits.
Domestic news was flat and that's a result of very typical comparisons.
You may recall that domestic news advertising grew double digits in the second quarter last year while every other quarter during the year it was actually down.
International advertising revenues grew approximately 35% in the quarter and that was boosted by a couple of transactions and some favorable foreign exchange rates.
And if you were to look through those international advertising revenues were up in the single digits.
So you may ask "Why is that why isn't it higher?" And it's really 2 stories to tell here.
First we continue to perform very well in our European and Latin American entertainment networks both of which were up double-digits in the quarter.
But due to events in Japan and the Middle East international news were down in the quarter so that was a drag on the overall growth rate.
In terms of the third quarter Advertising environment the scatter market slowed a bit during the upfront but now has largely come back in recent weeks.
Domestic scatter pricing is now up in the mid-teens over the upfront.
And looking ahead we expect total ad growth in the third quarter to remain somewhat similar to what it was in the second quarter.
And we should begin to benefit from the strong 2011 2012 upfront in the fourth quarter.
That should allow us to maintain very attractive Advertising gross rates even as we lap the acquisition of Chilevisión that occurred late last year.
Moving to Subscription revenues where we saw another quarter of high single-digit growth.
That reflects higher rates domestically and continued international growth.
Content revenues were also higher in the quarter up almost 20% and that was driven by strong sales with HBO's original programming including the season 3 home video release of True Blood and the licensing of Game of Thrones outside the U.S.
Adjusted operating income here was up 5% in the quarter and this was an improvement over the first quarter growth but clearly below our long-term expectations.
And that's largely a result of the investments in the NCAA and HBO GO that I previously mentioned.
Together these investments reduced growth in Time Warner's adjusted operating income this quarter by 400 to 500 basis points.
Turning now to film.
Warner Bros.
revenues were up a solid 13% in the quarter.
On the home entertainment front we saw significant increases in both video game and home video revenues.
Our games business benefited from the releases of Mortal Kombat 9 and LEGO Pirates of the Caribbean: The Video Game.
And Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 which is the #1 selling home video release year-to-date drove home video revenues up 22% in the quarter.
Despite this higher revenue adjusted operating income was down modestly in the quarter and that was because of higher prerelease P&amp;A spending on third quarter releases much of that tied to the Harry Potter film as well as higher theatrical film valuation adjustments and increased overhead costs.
And the increase in overhead was in part due to recent acquisitions and new business initiatives.
Looking ahead we continue to expect the second half of the year to be very very strong.
We're off to a great start with record-breaking performance of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 and the third quarter will also benefit from the syndication sale of The Big Bang Theory.
And we're looking forward to our fourth quarter releases such as Happy Feet 2 and Sherlock Holmes 2 as Jeff just mentioned as well as our strong home video and games lineup for the holiday season.
So we remain confident and we've said this before that 2011 will be a record year for Warner Bros.
On the Publishing where all 4 revenue buckets were actually up year-over-year in the quarter.
Advertising revenues were up slightly.
And if you'll recall we transferred management of SI.com and Golf.com to Turner last year.
So as a result Time Inc.
no longer books the advertising revenue generated by these sites.
We all saw that as with certain titles in IPC last year.
So if you were to exclude those 2 items for comparability purposes total Advertising revenues were up 4% and digital advertising revenues were up in the low teens.
Moving to Subscriptions which were up for the first time since last year's second quarter.
That's Subscription revenues.
That was largely a result of an uptick in domestic revenue and favorable foreign exchange rates.
And it was partially offset by the sale of titles at IPC.
Operating income at Time Inc.
was up 10% with margins up 120 basis points.
This is the seventh quarter in a row of year-over-year margin improvement at Time Inc.
Total expenses were up modestly and the biggest driver there was higher paper costs.
Looking to the third quarter we are seeing some softness in both Advertising and newsstand sales.
Adjusted operating income should also be negatively impacted by some continued expense growth including higher paper prices.
So if you were to take all of this into account adjusted operating income should be down somewhat in the third quarter.
However we expect this segment to return to growth again in the fourth quarter.
Turning to the next slide which looks at our full year outlook.
As I noted a little earlier we feel even more confident that we'll achieve our financial objectives this year.
And this morning is update to our outlook to grow at least low teens in adjusted EPS in 2011.
In terms of the quarterly progression the year is coming in more or less how we planned.
The first quarter was our most challenging one from a profit growth perspective due to difficult film comparisons and the significant investments we made in the NCAA basketball tournament.
In the second quarter we returned to profit growth and adjusted EPS growth.
Now let me quickly highlight some things to be mindful of in each of Q3 and Q4 this year.
So beginning in the third quarter we expect accelerating year-over-year growth for both profit and adjusted EPS.
That's largely a result of the strong theatrical and syndication lineup at Warner Bros.
In fact growth would be even higher if not for the timing of programming and marketing spending in the third quarter at the Networks.
We plan to increase programming spending in the mid-teens and to increase marketing spending which should weigh on the Networks segment profits in Q3.
Some of this is related to the airing of additional sports programming.
Also recall that in last year's third quarter we booked a $58 million reversal of a litigation reserve which creates another headwind for growth in the quarter.
But as we look beyond Q3 and as we look ahead into the fourth quarter we expect another quarter of very very strong profit growth.
Warner Bros.
should post a big quarter due to the home video and games release slate.
And we anticipate strong growth at the Networks very strong growth in fact.
Again that's mostly a function of timing.
In particular growth in programming and marketing will be much more modest in Q4 as compared to the third quarter.
But we will also benefit from this year's very strong upfront and our expectations for improved programming.
So we fully anticipate a very strong second half for this year.
Let me continue on move to the next slide which just quickly highlights our free cash flow.
Year-to-date for the second quarter we generated $555 million of free cash.
The big year-over-year decline is mainly due to an increase in working capital.
For the first half that was primarily attributable to increased production spending of both Warner Bros.
and HBO.
We said at the beginning of the year that this would be a down year in free cash flow due to the timing of our investment spending in programming and production as well as higher cash taxes.
You saw that decline in the first half but we expect free cash flow generation to begin to improve starting in the second half now.
And we fully expect to see both our free cash flow and our rate of conversion increase in 2012.
Looking at the last slide which is our net debt position.
We ended the quarter with $15 billion in net debt.
That's up about $2.1 billion compared to the end of last year.
We returned approximately $2.5 billion to shareholders during the first 6 months of the year and that includes about $2 billion in share repurchases.
That's double the pace of our share repurchases that we did last year.
Year-to-date we've also spent a little less than $300 million in M&amp;A activity in the second quarter.
The only significant acquisition we made was Flixster.
And as Jeff described we expect Flixster to play an important role in our efforts to accelerate the digital transition for our home video business.
Our debt leverage ratio is now 2.4x and that's up from around 2x at the end of 2010.
That's consistent with our plan to move closer to our target leverage of 2.5x in an effort to better optimize our capital structure.
As you know we manage our capital structure with the goal of finding the right balance between maintaining our strong balance sheet and actively deploying our capital to invest in our businesses make acquisitions and return capital to shareholders.
So with half the year completed we feel very comfortable with the progress we've made and the path we're on.
So thank you for listening.
And now let me turn the call back over to Doug to start the Q&amp;A portion.
Thanks Chris.
So let's get the Q&amp;A started.
[Operator Instructions] Thanks.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Spencer Wang with Credit Suisse.
A 2-part question for Jeff on digital.
Jeff Warner Bros.
has the biggest film and television library but you guys have been probably a little bit more conservative with respect to licensing some of the content to technology company.
So I was wondering first if you could just update us on your thoughts with respect to that opportunity.
And then secondly on HBO GO I know it's really early but any sense of how HBO GO could impact churn going forward? We're already selling some product to Netflix and we have ongoing discussions with all of the digital outlets Apple Amazon Netflix to sell series and movies.
Basically we're fairly vigorous in our approach to it and I think we've been pretty clear generally that we're eager to maximize the value of all our series and movies.
And we want to do it in a way which adds to the value of these over their lifetime not detract from it.
One of the things that -- so we do anything that fits that.
We had thought that some of the sales that we saw content owners make to various digital outlets actually undervalued or reduced the lifetime stream of earnings for those products.
So we didn't want to do that.
And we think there's some good opportunities from all the digital players including Netflix.
On the GO question things are going very well as we said in the call.
The subscriber usage and take up of GO is very enthusiastic.
We don't have the numbers on churn yet but when you have your subscribers using it a lot more then it's obviously going to make the subscription more valuable whether you're looking at churn installation or really the value that consumers put on HBO which will affect over time the support the retail price and the wholesale price.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
I wanted to follow up on the digital question.
Jeff you just talked about pricing being a holdback related to online video distribution deals.
And correct me if I'm wrong now with Amazon entering the fray you're at a bit of a position of kingmaker since you haven't done a deal yet.
Is the pricing then potentially been solved? Are you at the point where you're in negotiations on deals? And if it's more than just price what are the other hurdles that are out there? Yes I wouldn't emphasize price as a particular problem.
We're always interested in having several competitors and healthy ones digital ones bidding for the value of our product.
And so we can make structures for that that accommodates the different positions that digital distributors are in as they try to build their businesses.
The value of these things is going up what we've seen basically as you look at particularly subscription VOD which Amazon is interested in Netflix is very successful in that area as is HBO.
We think that there is a great place for subscription VOD.
HBO already occupied a pretty good place in that area.
But take Netflix it provides another way for us to monetize our content which is good.
And it gives access to deep library of products that consumers couldn't easily get before particularly the older shows.
And so it may be filling a really functional thing for consumers so that particularly also in the case of serial live shows which we don't play as well on traditional cable nets or syndication that can be a good place for subscription VOD services to operate I mean obviously results in more monetization for the content than we were all getting previously.
We don't think though that if you're looking at subscription VOD in most cases if you think of all the big series or movie products that's out there in the relatively early windows that's probably not the right outlet for the newer higher-value content because it has so much money behind it as you take it through the years of its window.
So I don't know does that answer the question? Well let me just take a shot at the timing aspect of it.
When it comes to library product that you have at Warner Bros.
one option if you think the price is going up in value is just simply cut a short-term deal 6 months 1 year what have you and then get the price increase filing.
Should investors anticipate that we're getting reasonably close to a library deal something that could happen this year or next year? No we can't comment on that.
Obviously as you said we've got the biggest backroom of movies series.
And we deal with all -- we have all kinds of networks coming to license them now new digital services coming to license them whether they're using a subscription model or a show-by-show film-by-film model like Apple.
So there are just plenty of places.
It's a -- we think it's actually a very promising situation.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard Greenfield with BTIG.
LLC</strong> I wanted to follow up on that last question because I think the question that is kind of everyone's thinking about is this issue of freshness of content.
And you're spending a lot of money for your Cable Networks on acquiring syndicated content whether it's Hawaii Five-O or The Mentalist that you talked about at the beginning of the call yet there's a lot of services and some of them are your own like an HBO GO where you can watch content from years ago whether it's Netflix where you can watch lots of content and everybody from your peers seems to be feeding into putting up all this older content.
And I think the question broadly is what's the impact on ratings and profitability as consumers have more and more options to watch all of this stuff that isn't recent that is older? What's the risk to ratings and is there a double-edged sword that -- how do we think about that issue? All right.
That's a good question.
In the case of HBO the ratings are not as important although as we've seen viewership go up with On Demand whether it was On Demand on television for HBO which has had been going on 5 10 years or now On Demand on Internet for HBO which is GO when you put something On Demand including this year's Game of Thrones or Sopranos from years ago a lot more people watch it.
So if you then -- that's the premium and pay TV side.
HBO has a fairly deep library of all of that both current and older hit shows.
If you go to -- when you ask ratings I think advertising when you go to ad-supported networks like TNT TBS we have a mix of new originals acquired series acquired movies.
In the case of all the acquired stuff they're all hit.
In the case of original stuff on TNT mostly those have been fortunately hits including some of the new ones that we've put out.
If you then go to that and you say all right what happens as people have more ability to pick programming On Demand which has been -- that's given rise to a theory everybody has that then scheduled viewing "collision viewing " which I think is an inaccurate term will go down as people have more choice.
Well what everyone's forgetting is that when you put the hit programming including the acquired hits on big cable networks like TNT USA TBS when you put those On Demand you get the same lift that makes those popular programs more successful.
So you have 2 effects going on.
One is more choice so a viewer can move away from a scheduled rerun.
The other is more choice so a viewer can watch the favorite hit show that is available now in rerun.
On TV Everywhere you'll have a habit that develops among all consumers across all Networks that lets you watch a lot of current episodes of your favorite show.
And what's developing right behind that is last season you've got some of that on Hulu Plus where you can see full seasons last year's season.
So what you have is basically newer forms of what everybody used to think of as syndication that is now being available On Demand.
And if you have hit programming you make it available you get more viewing.
LLC</strong> And just a follow-up.
So when you think about who's losing in the process because there's only so many hours in a day to watch video content do you think there's some things being drawn down by all of this On Demand viewing? Or do you think that the American consumers is just increasing their overall video exposure as you look at it over the next year? Well in fact they're increasing it.
But as you move towards more viewing of some show that you prefer because now you can choose it it takes away from mediocre programming and kind of mid-link scheduled shows.
Hit shows and big brands win.
Mediocre stuff loses.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Morris with Davenport.
LLC</strong> First a quick clarification.
The outlook for the third quarter John you said should be similar to the second quarter in Advertising.
Is that the 11% number that you reported or is this the number kind of x the NCAA? Mike thanks for the question.
I was referring to the reported number.
Again just directionally just trying to give a sense of how the back part of the year would play out between Q3 and Q4.
So we would expect given all things there's always lots of variables moving in all directions but we expect sort of right now similar ad revenue growth.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then on the affiliate fee side clearly you've made these content investments NCAA front and center there.
Can you help us -- the affiliate pacing in the second quarter of 7% of the subscription pacing I'm assuming Turner domestic was above that.
Is it correct that it's more in the 8% to 9% range? And does that level of growth -- I know that you guys don't negotiate publicly and that sort of thing but does that already reflect the kind of maximum increase you feel that you can get with this NCAA contract or how should we be thinking about that kind of on a multiyear basis given the investments? Thanks Mike it's John again.
So the answer -- I'll take the latter part of the question first which is the answer is no.
When we announced our commitment to the NCAA we had said that it would take some time for us to be able to fully monetize and get paid full value fair value for the value of the content that we'd be airing.
And then looking out a little bit more broadly over a multiyear period I just go back to what we've been saying which is that we believe for the foreseeable future in any given quarter by the way it could be up a little bit or down a little bit.
But if you look at it on a sustained period for the foreseeable future we expect Turner's Subscription revenues to be in the high single-digit growth range annually and HBO to be in the mid-single digit.
I think you already said it John.
But then that's before you add on top of that some fairly significant increases for sports on the affiliate side.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Nathanson with Nomura.
I have one for Jeff and one for John.
Jeff following on the theme of today how -- you mentioned that there was a fatigue on some of the syndicated programming that's going to be revitalized with some of the new shows we're adding.
Can you tell me what sense do you have what works have you done that says it's fatigue versus just more availability of something like a Family Guy or The Office online? So how do you know it's fatigue versus maybe just over exposure in other places? Because if you look around at all the networks not just ours we don't really see fatigue for acquired shows or series programming that's essentially hit programming that's now going into a brand like TNT or USA or FX et cetera.
And so what I think is that it's important which series you're talking about.
I think at Turner we had some frankly bad as it turned out programming choices in some of the series we acquired over the last few years.
And we talked about I mean specifically that when they were hits on network TV and going up in ratings when we made the deal to acquire them and then when they got on our network they started to deteriorate faster than usual.
Some of that maybe that they were available on some of the digital platforms which if you're asking that it doesn't help.
But that aspect which I don't think is a major part yet it could become a larger deterioration effect if you're programming something on a big schedule TV network with a VOD component the way TNT will be.
If that thing is available somewhere else all the time that will obviously erode the viewership over time.
So what's happened is our networks and I think many others have stopped -- they essentially blocked those rights for VOD or they blocked them to be somewhere else so that will help.
But that's not the issue here for us we don't think.
We think the issue is the shows we picked didn't work as well as the shows some of our basic cable competitors picked.
And we've said today and named a few shows we think we'll begin to improve that.
But that's basically a traditional programming kind of a problem that you fix by doing better programming.
Okay.
And then for John just to clarify on the affiliate fee side of the Networks.
The change in growth rates how much of this did you simply do to the inclusion now of your HBO international assets which were acquired? So is that the main cause of maybe the change in growth rates from 2Q to 1Q? No it's not.
In fact the HBO international acquisitions that we made there was only a modest number of them that are in the consolidated revenues because some of them are accounted for on an equity basis.
And I think this quarter we actually lapped HBO Central Europe.
So it wasn't -- that wasn't really a driver at all.
Our next question comes from the line of Jessica Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I have a TV and then a film question.
Can you give us any clarity on the $5 billion in backlog for television? What period of time will it come in? Is it all domestic? And how much of it is third party versus Turner? Look I don't actually have the lot of detail right here.
That's a global number and it's all inclusive and it also includes HBO.
And I think Warner Bros.
is the lion's share of that.
But I don't have the details that go beyond that and that will be coming in over a number of years as is typical with the backlog figures.
Okay.
And on film given the growth in international markets I'm just curious how are you thinking about your strategy.
Some of the films you mentioned -- I meant your ownership strategy some of the films that you mentioned sort of back half that you seem very positive about like Sherlock Holmes and Happy Feet.
I don't think you have rights outside the U.S.
or most of the rights outside the U.S.
So how are you thinking overall about kind of ownership of film rights? Well I'm not -- are you talking about -- I don't think that's right what you're asking.
We have -- we're distributing those worldwide.
Okay.
I thought you had a partner.
I wasn't told you had a partner then.
Yes we do.
We have Village.
That's a finance partner.
Yes.
It's not a distribution.
So we basically sometimes took partners in the production financing of a film and we then distribute the film.
The idea there is to optimize our kind of risk and profitability and stability of profitability which is we look at the performance of Warner theatrically over any of the last 1 3 5 years it's been very very steady.
I think steadier than any other company.
So we basically think we have the optimal risk and profit participation in doing that.
And so we think we'll get from our hits and leading tempo slates.
We have more tempo in our slates than our competitors do.
We think we get most of the returns from that.
Our next question comes from the line of Tony Wible with Janney.
I was wondering if you can comment on ultraviolet getting ready to launch and whether or not you're going to see any programs with retailers to help spur initial adoption or maybe even get that historical DVD catalog over to ultraviolet.
Will there be any kind of like trade-in programs or anything to that extent? Well with ultraviolet what will happen is if you go and buy a physical DVD you'll have it in the cloud as you walk out of the store.
If you buy an electronic copy of a movie from either a cable operator or any electronic retailer you will also have a copy to pick up in the cloud that you can move from device to device.
If you want to take your old DVDs into retailers and have them put it into the cloud and therefore available for you to move from device to device you'll be able to do that also.
Okay.
And when will that officially kick off? The fall.
Yes you'll be hearing more about our plans in the coming weeks and months.
But it's not that far off in the distance.
And suffice it to say that we're going to be working closely with all of our retail and distribution partners to try to make this a success.
So you'll be hearing a lot more about this.
Our next question comes from the line of Barton Crockett with Lazard Capital Markets.
I wanted to ask a question about sports in terms of opportunities and risks.
And really 2 parts one could you talk about your interest in potentially acquiring other premium sports packages? There's talks about an NFL package for instance.
Do you think you need to have something more there? And then secondly just update us in terms of the exposure to the NBA in terms of how you view the risk to your business from potential of a strike.
I know there's a revenue offset and cost offset but how do you see that at this point? Well we don't need -- let's do NFL first.
We don't need an NFL package.
But we always look at things and try to figure out could they be beneficial to the mix of what we're doing.
And sports is a pretty important part of the offering at Turner but it's focused on having the right sports.
And TBS and TNT have modeled its built on a balance of sports originals and acquired series.
We try to optimize that mix for viewers for distributors for advertisers.
We've been very happy with the performance of NBA Major League Baseball and NCAA.
NCAA as we said is really outperforming.
But we continue to evaluate potential opportunities as they come up.
We look at everything but we're not going to predict now which things we would think would make sense.
You should assume that we'd only do something as big as a major league if we thought we were going to make money out of it.
We don't do the as lost [ph] leaders.
And on the NBA we're hoping that the owners and the players can come to an agreement.
But it's not a long-term issue for us.
And we have protection built into our contract and we'd work with our long-term NBA partners on collaborative solutions if that were to come about.
So we think we're in a pretty good position in sports.
We've done some smart things NCAA being the most recent and profitable.
But that's the way we think of sports profitable.
Our next question comes from the line of Tuna Amobi with Standard &amp; Poor's.
So my question is on Green Lantern.
It seems to be our perception and Jeff correct me if I'm wrong that the film did not live up to its expectations.
And I'm not sure if you agree with that.
And if that's the case do you still view the film as one of your core franchises any impact on how that might affect your strategy at DC Comics? And also any comment on how that might play into your strategy to perhaps fill the gap with the end of Harry Potter.
That would be helpful.
Sure.
Look as we've said it did not live up to expectations.
So it really fell short of the -- we are always evaluating whether there is a -- and it makes any sense to make a sequel.
We're not -- I'm not in a position to tell you the answer to that today.
But we will be deciding that in due course.
And I'm not concerned about DC strategy.
I mean you make some films work it's the individuals films not even getting to whether a franchise would work and some don't.
And we are now managing DC in a much more holistic way.
We think we have already multiple franchises.
And we've got new ones we're trying to build.
Remember we have a Batman film for 2012 we talked about which comes out in DC.
And you know how strong the last one was.
We've got Zack Snyder on board to direct the next Superman.
And we think DC is going to be a major contributor going forward franchises for Warner.
Okay.
A question for John.
Just trying to understand a little bit more about the potential upside on Big Bang Theory.
I know that you've talked about it quite a bit.
And as you think about that if you can help us to understand over the next several years the potential upside.
And just as a frame of reference for example CBS has talked about billion-dollar franchises.
And while that includes NCIS and CSI they've also mentioned things like The Good Wife and Blue Bloods and shows that you might not ordinarily think about as a potential billion-dollar franchise so to speak.
So I understand you don't have a broadcast network but the domestic and international syndication upside seems to be pretty significant the fee from the network et cetera.
So if you can provide some color on that that would be helpful.
Thanks Tuna.
I'll provide a little bit of color but I'm not going to provide a lot of specific so numbers -- look when Big Bang was sold into Syndication it went at record levels.
And we as part of our company are benefiting at Warners because they're producing the show and it's airing on CBS.
But then we're benefiting at TBS and we're really looking forward to it coming on the network.
And we think that it's going to be a key ingredient to improving the ratings on TBS which we said should begin in the fourth quarter.
And we think that it's going to monetize its audiences very well and we have high expectations for the audience levels that it's going to be able to deliver on the network.
As it relates from the production side I think we're extremely pleased with how it's continuing to perform on the broadcast network.
And with ratings continuing at very high levels we think that spells for a great degree of optimism as we look ahead with the potential of multiple multiple cycles of syndication and international licensing opportunities.
And if you look back in history Warner has had some of the most successful television series in history and they've been franchises with very very big numbers in front of them.
So we're pleased that we have Big Bang and we think that there's going to be plenty of monetization ahead.
Our final question comes from the line of John Janedis with UBS.
Jeff this is related to an earlier one but given the fickle nature of audiences for acquired programming do you foresee materially more investments in originals for Turner over the next few years? And do you think the market for a syndicated programming has the potential to cool given the increasing number of TV viewing platforms? I don't know if fickle is the right word to use to acquired programming.
Actually I would go the other way and say that the audience for acquired programming because it's hits because it's well-established is actually a very loyal audience.
And the question really is how does that loyal audience that comes to an acquired hit series how does it stick with it over time because obviously as you go year after year after year eventually everything declines at some degree.
So I think that's really the question.
And there isn't a huge pattern change in the performance of acquired programming.
Having said that we still think that the combination of original series that frankly some of the strength of our original series the ability to launch them is aided by the very strong platform of acquired true-blue hits that are already on our schedule.
And it's not the only reason but it's one reason why we've been so successful in launching new series like The Closer Rizzoli &amp; Isles et cetera.
We're always evaluating the mix.
We are constantly trying to create new long-term original series franchises at Turner as well as HBO.
I should mention not just in the remarks at the beginning but now that truTV has created a really impressive number of -- and so has Adult Swim of new series that are quite strong in their target demographics and quite strong with advertisers.
So whether you're talking more niche-targeted programming some acquired some original or whether you're talking about big reach proven hits like on TBS TNT all of it is still strong and performing well.
And It really gets down to -- look what John was just answering in the last question.
Big Bang Theory is an acquired series.
It's going to be a big hit on CBS.
All right.
And with that thank you very much for listening.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you so much for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Time Warner's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Doug Shapiro Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for Time Warner.
Please proceed sir.
Thanks.
This morning we issued 2 press releases one detailing our results for the third quarter and the other updating our 2011 full year business outlook.
Before we begin there are two items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our site.
And second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Thanks and with that let me turn it over to Jeff.
Thanks Doug and thanks for joining us this morning.
This was a great quarter for us financially and strategically led by a fantastic performance from our studio.
Revenue was up 11%.
That's our fastest growth rate in 4 years.
Adjusted operating income climbed 18% and adjusted EPS was up 27%.
Over the last few months we took advantage of the attractive value of our stock and increased the pace of our repurchases.
We bought back $3.7 billion of our stock so far this year more than double the pace at this time last year.
Following the strong results this quarter we've raised our expectations for full year adjusted EPS to growth in the high teens.
That means we're on track and have doubled our earnings over the past 3 years.
It's a testament to the strength of our assets and management depth that we've been able to produce these results during such an uncertain time for the economy and such a period of considerable change for our industry.
Let me put some context around our performance this quarter and then John will walk you through our results in detail.
We believe it's clear that technology and globalization are increasing the demand for high-quality content.
As the right business models develop we believe the value of this content is growing and we think we're positioned to be one of the chief beneficiaries of these trends.
So to take advantage of this we've invested and we'll continue to invest aggressively to create and acquire even more great content and we're pushing hard to develop new business models that enhance the consumer experience in a way that supports our economics.
We made progress toward both these goals this quarter.
At Warner Bros.
film division Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 grossed $1.3 billion at the box office globally making it the third-highest grossing film ever.
The 8 Harry Potter films have now grossed $7.7 billion globally making it far and away the most successful film series in history.
Of course that's a credit to JK Rowling's brilliant story.
But it also underscores Warner Bros.
unequaled ability to create and manage film franchises.
While this was the last film in the series the Harry Potter franchise will endure in a variety of ways for a long time.
As just one example next spring we'll open the making of Harry Potter attraction at our studio outside London coinciding with the 2012 London Olympics.
We'll give visitors a unique behind-the-scenes look at the productions on the actual sets.
Advance tickets just went on sale and they have blown away our expectations.
Although Harry Potter overshadowed just about everything in the film world this quarter it wasn't all about Harry at Warner Bros.
Contagion and Horrible Bosses were also very strong performers and we're set up for a strong finish to the year with the sequels to Happy Feet and Sherlock Holmes coming later this quarter.
We're also enjoying fantastic momentum at Warner Bros.
Television Production arm.
The growth prospects for TV content have never been better and Warner is in the pole position to benefit.
The big story this quarter was the initial syndication of The Big Bang Theory.
A hit show like Big Bang can be a tremendous asset to us across the company.
For Warner Bros.
it generates significant license fees and ongoing barter revenue and for Turner it's a critical part of the new lineup at TBS as I'll discuss in a moment.
Plus looking out over the next few years our syndication pipeline is building.
We've had a great start to the new broadcast network season for both our biggest returning shows like Two and a Half Men The Big Bang Theory Mike &amp; Molly and for several of our new shows especially 2 Broke Girls Suburgatory and Person of Interest.
Reflect on this list for a moment.
We've never had so many successful comedies on the air at one time.
For all the change in the TV business in the last decade the holy grail of TV production is still a hit 30-minute comedy.
Not only do successful comedies fetch substantial prices in syndication they can run for multiple cycles and become multibillion dollar annuities.
And we've got 4 of the top 7 on all of television.
Over the last few weeks we've also struck a couple of game-changing deals at The CW with both Netflix and Hulu.
Historically our stake in The CW has been profitable for us because it's a valuable platform for launching new shows.
These deals substantially improve the economics of The CW.
At the same time they are great examples of how new distribution outlets can be additive to the traditional TV ecosystem.
Many of the shows on The CW target a very specific demographic and they are serialized making them tough to syndicate through traditional networks.
But they're a perfect fit for SVOD providers like Netflix and Hulu.
In recent months Warner has also made further progress toward improving the value proposition of owning digital movies.
Its home entertainment transitions to digital distribution we think it's critical to make it more compelling and easier for consumers to buy digital movies and to manage their collections.
That's why we've been a big supporter of the UltraViolet initiative to allow consumers to access their movies from the cloud on a wide variety of devices in and out of the home.
And to help kickstart the process we bought Flixster which is the first service to allow consumers to access a UV title.
Over time we expect to see many more UV services launch.
In August we launched the beta of Flixster's collection management service and we subsequently released the first 2 UltraViolet titles: Horrible Bosses and Green Lantern.
We're really happy with the early results and we expect UltraViolet to gain traction in the coming year as more UV titles are released and many more retail partners rollout their own UV services.
In the coming months we intend to steadily add new features to Flixster.
For instance we'll add a movie starter kit that will give consumers a choice of a complementary digital movie when they create a new UV account.
We will open a studio agnostic storefront and we'll introduce a disk to digital service that will allow consumers to convert their physical DVD collections into digital copies.
We'll also keep adding new devices and platforms.
I'll now move over to our Networks business.
At Turner this quarter we again saw strong performance from the original programming at our big entertainment networks.
Most notably Falling Skies on TNT was the #1 new show of the year while returning shows Rizzoli &amp; Isles and The Closer remain the top 2 scripted shows on Cable.
We're also confident that the ratings for our acquired programming will improve as we refresh our lineup with new hit shows the first of which is The Big Bang Theory on TBS.
So after a great start so far it's only been on the regular schedule for 2 weeks but it's significantly outperforming the programming that was previously in its time slot and that's providing a boost to other parts of the TBS schedule including Conan.
Just as important we think Big Bang will prove to be a great platform for launching original comedies which you'll see more of in the coming year.
So not only should we see a big improvement in TBS ratings in the fourth quarter we're also excited about the opportunity to drive growth in 2012 and beyond.
CNN had another very strong quarter with ratings up more than 30% in its key demo dramatically outpacing its cable news competitors again.
It's further evidence that more viewers turn to CNN than anywhere else when news breaks.
Importantly we're also seeing the payoff from some of our recent lineup changes with both Anderson Cooper's AC 360 and Piers Morgan Tonight up double digits.
With our coverage of the Republican primary debates already breaking audience records on CNN we think we're really well positioned heading into the 2012 election season.
We also benefited from strong performance at some of our faster growing network as both truTV and Adult Swim posted their most watched third quarters ever in their key demos.
As you all know Turner's revenue is split between advertising and affiliate fees.
So growing ratings is important for our ad sales effort.
But to bolster our affiliate fees it's also important to schedule high-profile programming like sports.
That's why we acquired the rights to the NCAA men's basketball tournament.
When we announced this NCAA deal we told you that we expect that it would be significantly profitable for us over the life of the deal.
We said that because we expected to negotiate higher affiliate fees for airing March Madness games on TNT TBS and Turner.
We're just starting that process.
It should take a couple of years to complete.
But recently we successfully completed our first deals with distributors that include the values that we were seeking for this program.
And we've had very constructive conversations with many of our other affiliates too so I'm even more confident today about the profit potential of the NCAA deal than we were when we signed it.
This quarter we continue to make progress with our deployment of TV Everywhere at both Turner and HBO.
For the past 2 years we've been primarily focused on getting TV Everywhere up and running technically.
Now we're turning to the next phase increasing awareness and making it easy for consumers to use.
Turner now has TV Everywhere versions of its networks available to 70 million U.S.
households and we expect to reach about 80 million by the end of the year.
In addition to authenticated websites for almost all our key U.S.
networks we've now rolled out iOS apps for our CNN Headline News HLN TBS TNT tru Cartoon and Adult Swim.
And we'll roll out versions for Android devices and several TV platforms by the end of the year.
At HBO we're excited by the early success of HBO GO.
The mobile app has now been downloaded almost 5 million times.
HBO subscribers using GO are watching substantially more HBO than they did before and the user satisfaction is through the roof.
Users are spending the vast majority of their time watching HBO's original program which continues to set the standard for the television industry.
That was evident in September when HBO won more primetime Emmys than any other network for the 10th straight year.
We're continuing to launch new platforms and feature enhancements.
For instance HBO GO will be available on Roku this week and is soon to follow on the Xbox.
In this quarter we launched MAX GO for mobile devices.
I'm also happy to report that we've made a lot of progress with the 2 major affiliates who don't yet have authentication agreements.
I'm hopeful for their sake they'll be up and running in the next few months.
Turning to our Publishing business.
Like our other divisions Time Inc.
is pushing the digital evolution of its businesses more aggressively than any other magazine publisher.
It's the only publisher committed to launching tablet versions of its entire domestic portfolio and it's the only publisher designing content specifically for each device.
We'll be launching tablet versions of at least one magazine every week between now and the end of the year.
Early results are very encouraging with hundreds of thousands of print subscribers authenticating across the titles we've launched so far.
As I said at the outset we had another great quarter both financially and strategically.
Across the company we are focused on increasing our output of high-quality content and leading the evolution of new business models that give consumers what they want in a way that's economically attractive for us.
As we aim to do every quarter we made a lot of progress on both fronts which makes me very confident about how we're positioned for 2012 and beyond.
I'll now turn it over to John.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'm going to begin by referring to the first slide which is now available on our website.
3/4 of the way through the year we're really pleased with how we've executed against our goals for investment growth and returns.
Our plan involves some significant investments in the first half of the year which we told you would result in growth being more back end weighted for 2011 and you could see this with our strong results this third quarter.
Revenue was up double digits and that's the highest quarterly growth rate since the third quarter of 2007.
And adjusted operating income was up 18% year-over-year.
Now that translated to a very strong 27% growth in adjusted EPS and we can't do it every quarter.
But these results are consistent with our long-term goal of growing operating income faster than revenue and growing earnings per share faster than operating income.
During the quarter we also continued to generate significant free cash flow increasing our conversion to 60% of adjusted OIBDA.
And as Jeff noted we've increased our direct returns to shareholders.
We repurchased about $1.4 billion of our shares since we last reported earnings and we paid about $250 million in dividends during the quarter.
So in light of this strong performance and confidence that it will continue through the fourth quarter we've raised our 2011 outlook for adjusted EPS to grow in the high teens.
Now let me move to a discussion of our segments.
Let me begin with our Networks where we saw another quarter of really good revenue growth.
Advertising revenues were up 9%.
Our domestic entertainment networks including kids and young adults grew advertising mid-single digits and domestic news grew high single digits.
That reflected strong ratings momentum at CNN and Adult Swim and as expected softer ratings at TNT and TBS.
International advertising grew over 30% in the quarter helped by a couple of transactions as well as favorable foreign exchange rates.
If you look through those international advertising revenues were up in the high single digits which admittedly was a little lighter than we had expected.
Let me provide a little bit more context as to what's happening here.
We're continuing to see very strong performance from our Latin American operations which have become a key growth driver internationally for us.
By way of context it's a very profitable business for us with margins closer to the levels that we have here in the U.S.
And by our estimate we are now the largest cable programmer in Latin America.
We also saw solid growth in our European businesses but it was a bit lower than we had anticipated going into the quarter.
And our results have not been as strong as we'd like in India where ratings and advertising for our largest entertainment network have been somewhat disappointing.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter Turner is seeing similar advertising trends as it did in the third quarter.
But the cancellation of NBA games should reduce growth by about 200 to 300 basis points in the quarter.
We're also lapping an international acquisition that we made in the fourth quarter of last year.
So we expect advertising growth on a reported basis to be in the mid-single digits.
Now for planning purposes we are assuming here that there will be no NBA games in the fourth quarter and while that would have the negative impact that I just said on advertising there will also be an offsetting reduction in programming expenses.
So the impact to adjusted operating income from the lost games in the fourth quarter should be relatively immaterial.
In terms of the scatter market I just know generally that pricing is up high single to low double digits over the recent upfront.
Moving over to Subscription revenues now for a moment in the quarter they're up 6% year-over-year.
As is often the case there were some retroactive adjustments in the third quarter of this year excuse me the third quarter of both this year and last year but together had the impact of reducing growth by about 100 basis points.
As we look ahead we expect subscription growth to be in the mid-single digits in the fourth quarter and that's due to similar adjustments as well as some headwinds from a stronger U.S.
dollar and recent modest declines in U.S.
multi-channel subscribers.
For all of 2011 we continue to expect underlying Subscription revenue growth to be in the high single digits at Turner and in the mid-single digits at HBO.
And while the quarters can certainly bounce around from a variety of reasons those expectations that I just communicated are consistent with what we have coming into the year.
Adjusted operating income was down at the Networks group 4% in the quarter and that's largely due to 2 factors both of which were highlighted on our second quarter earnings call.
The first is programming and marketing expenses were up double digits in the quarter and that was partly due to the timing of our sports programming including the Major League Baseball playoffs and NASCAR.
Second recall that in last year's third quarter we booked a $58 million reversal of a litigation reserve.
That cost us 500 basis points of growth in this quarter.
Please keep in mind for the full year our programming expenses are trending pretty much exactly as we had expected.
And excluding the NCAA Basketball Tournament as well as the impact of acquisitions we continue to anticipate programming expenses to be up mid-single digits this year.
As we look to the fourth quarter some of the timing issues that worked against us this quarter in the third quarter should actually turnaround and work in our favor.
So we expect programming expenses to be about flat year-over-year.
And again for planning purposes here we're assuming that there will be no NBA games played in the quarter.
As a result we expect the fourth quarter to be by far our strongest of the year at the Networks group in terms of growth and adjusted operating income.
Now let me turn to film where Warner Bros.
had its best quarter ever.
Revenue was up nearly 20% and profits more than doubled to a record of more than $0.5 billion.
These strong results were principally a result of the theatrical release of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 and the syndication sale of The Big Bang Theory.
The incredible success of these properties underscores our view that the biggest hits are actually increasing in value and we think the strong theatrical performance of the final Harry Potter movie bodes well for its upcoming home video release in the fourth quarter.
The Big Bang Theory was made available for both broadcast and cable syndications starting in September and was the principal driver of the more than 20% growth in our television revenue at this division in the quarter.
And given the continued strong ratings of the show on broadcast we anticipate that it will be a strong contributor to the profitability of the studio for many years to come.
Our Home Video revenue declined in the quarter but that was mainly due to a lighter release slate.
Our biggest title from a year ago was Clash of the Titans and we didn't have anything of a similar large release in this year's quarter.
It is worth noting however that for the industry we estimate total U.S.
home entertainment consumer sales were up almost 4% in the third quarter which is an encouraging improvement from recent trends.
We anticipate a significant improvement in Home Video revenue for us in the fourth quarter as a result of a strong slate that includes the final Harry Potter film The Hangover Part II Green Lantern and Horrible Bosses.
The fourth quarter will also benefit from a strong slate of video games headlined by Batman: Arkham City which has been the best reviewed game of the year and shipped almost 5 million units at launch.
And we should also see a nice lift from the SVOD deal that we recently struck and announced with Netflix for CW programming.
And we're looking forward to the fourth quarter theatrical releases of Happy Feet 2 and Sherlock Holmes 2: A Game of Shadows.
So the fourth quarter should be another very very strong quarter for us in terms of profits here and we remain very confident that 2011 will be a record year for Warner Bros.
Moving over to Publishing where in the third quarter Advertising revenues declined reflecting lower domestic print advertising.
These results were also continuing to be negatively affected by something we've mentioned to you in the past.
It's the transfer of the management of SI.com and Golf.com to Turner as well as the divestiture of titles in IPC.
And if you would exclude these items overall ad revenue was essentially flat in the quarter.
Subscription revenues were also almost flat and that was a result of continued softness at newsstand particularly for the celebrity category and that's offsetting an improvement in domestic subscriptions.
Operating income declined in the quarter and that was a function of both the modest decline in revenue and an increase in expenses resulting partly from higher paper costs.
Looking to the fourth quarter we do not see a significant change in top line trends.
The good news is that print advertising market appears to have stabilized.
Much of the softness that occurred in the third quarter happened in July in the run up to the U.S.
debt ceiling deadline and trends actually improved somewhat in August and September.
So we don't anticipate seeing a further deterioration relative to the third quarter which is good.
We do expect Subscription revenue to remain under pressure at the newsstand due to continued softness in the celebrity category but expenses should also benefit in the fourth quarter from a favorable comparison relative to its restructuring charge last year.
So we anticipate a return to growth in adjusted operating income at Publishing in the fourth quarter.
Turning to the next slide which just highlights our outlook.
We're very encouraged by our results for the first 9 months of the year and our execution gives us confidence to raise our full year outlook as I mentioned earlier.
We came into this year thinking that it would be a really good year and it's been better than we expected.
We're on track to grow revenue more than $2 billion this year and we now expect high teens growth in adjusted EPS.
That's particularly notable coming on the heels of about 30% growth in adjusted EPS in both 2009 and 2010.
I think it's also important to point out that we've been able to do this even though as what usually happens not everything has worked perfectly this year.
For instance TBS and TNT ratings have been softer than we anticipated.
Green Lantern underperformed our expectations.
The home video industry has remained soft and our largest channel entertainment network in India has struggled.
And of course we've been operating against a relatively difficult backdrop of slowing economic growth and stagnant multichannel household formation.
But we've been able to more than offset all of that due to strong results from CNN Adult Swim and our sports properties the outperformance of the rest of our theatrical slate and a great year from our Television Production unit.
Broadly speaking I think our performance is a testament to the strength and the diversity of our revenue streams and it gives us great confidence in our growth outlook as we look beyond 2011.
Turning to the next slide which quickly details free cash flow.
Year-to-date through the first 3 quarters we generated $1.7 billion in free cash with the vast majority of that coming in the third quarter.
As we anticipated conversion remains a little down compared to the year ago year-to-date first 9 months.
And that's largely a result of higher working capital requirements from planned increases in production spending at Warner Bros.
and HBO.
However our conversion increased during the quarter and we fully expect to see our rate of conversion move up next year.
We've been talking about that all year.
And the next slide which is the last slide provides a net debt reconciliation.
We ended the quarter with about $15.3 billion in net debt.
That's an increase of about $2.4 billion compared to the end of last year and that's largely due to the continued direct returns to shareholders that we've been providing.
We returned about $1.4 billion to shareholders during the quarter and that includes over $1.1 billion in share repurchases.
We also bought back another $584 million of stock subsequent to the end of the quarter.
And as I noted earlier that's an acceleration in the pace of our returns to shareholders relative to recent quarters.
So year-to-date we have returned more than $4 billion in share repurchases and dividends.
And to help fund that activity while maintaining strong liquidity and balance sheet flexibility we recently issued $1 billion in long-term debt and we were able to do that at very very attractive rates.
I'd also note that year-to-date we've spent about $300 million on M&amp;A activity.
We didn't have any significant acquisitions that occurred in the third quarter.
Our leverage ratio at the end of the third quarter is about 2.3x.
That's down a little bit from the second quarter but up from around 2x at the end of 2010.
Given the pace of our cash generation and share repurchases we are on track to be closer to our target leverage of 2.5x by year end.
And we continue to believe that 2.5x strikes the right balance of maintaining balance sheet strength while allowing us to continue to invest in our businesses make acquisitions and return capital to shareholders.
So with only one quarter left in the year we are very pleased with our progress to date and we are confident that we will achieve our capital plan priorities and objectives.
Now let me end there and turn the call back over to Doug who will start the Q&amp;A portion.
Thanks John.
Doug let's get the Q&amp;A started.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Spencer Wang from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a 2-part question on the studio.
First Jeff or John given how successful Big Bang Theory was in off network syndication in the third quarter could you remind us what the pipeline looks like for 2012 specifically? And then the second part is on UltraViolet maybe for Jeff how is UltraViolet going to work for Warner Fox and Universal movies in the HBO window? Let's start with the syndication pipeline.
The Big Bang Theory is obviously a big driver this quarter but we have a very strong pipeline coming up.
We've already sold The Mentalist for 2012 happens to go into TNT.
We also have Chuck currently available and we have Fringe available in 2012.
We're pretty excited about the possibilities for Mike &amp; Molly for 2 Broke Girls among our other new shows that are currently on the air.
So it's really quite good.
In the longer term as we said in the kind of prepared remarks we've got 4 of the 7 comedies on TV which should be a really strong future in the even longer term.
If you go to -- your question of how is UltraViolet working I think first of all we think everyone is -- all the other studios are going to release films in that format.
I think your question was about how it interacts with HBO? Would you just focus that? Research Division</strong> Sure Jeff.
I guess I was asking my understanding was that HBO has exclusive streaming rights in that window.
So would UltraViolet movies from HBO's studio partners work in the HBO window? Yes they will.
HBO has been part of organizing and supporting the UltraViolet group.
So yes they will.
And the method by which and the arrangements that are being made by the studios to get those rights I'm not going to go into in detail but it's going to work fine.
And obviously we have a big studio.
We understand the value of UltraViolet to buying owning and having owning be a good consumer attraction.
But we don't think it's going to be a problem for HBO given some of the tweaks that we'll make to HBO's rights.
Your next question is coming from the line of Anthony DiClemente from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> One for Jeff and one for John.
First for Jeff I just wanted to ask a little bit more about how The CW deal fits with your SVOD strategy? I know that that content is somewhat unique.
It's serialized for a specific demo but just want to get a little more of your thinking.
Are you you becoming gradually more platform agnostic as it pertains to your studio library and would a slowdown in distribution revenue growth from your traditional affiliates or the slowdown in multi-channel videos subscribers make you more platform agnostic? And then just a quick question for John on the share buyback strategy.
We're all trying to figure out how much stock to buyback in our models for 2012.
Can you just give us an update on when it might be likely for you guys to consider re-upping of the authorization with the board on the share buyback plan? We've actually always been platform agnostic on the distribution platforms and what we've been saying all the time all along and the deal with Netflix and Hulu illustrate what we've been saying.
Is that we always thought there was a role for Netflix and other library SVOD services in the ecosystem.
It provides everyone a new way provides us another way to monetize our concept which is good.
It gives consumers access to content they couldn't easily get before like older and serialized shows.
So it can be very good for consumers because they weren't really getting those or would have trouble getting them on a VOD basis.
For our studio what that does is it monetizes some content particularly the serialized and older series better than it was monetized before.
So it adds money to the ecosystem.
There's some differences because of the nature of what Netflix is and what Hulu is about how both of those work.
But basically each of them is consistent and does not impinge upon the economics and value of the other kind of traditional networks.
Not to get too specific the economics of The CW and Netflix deal The CW to Netflix deal is basically good for both of us just think -- have I answered your question or is there a little more dimension to what you're looking for? Research Division</strong> Yes it makes sense when you talk about it in terms of catalog content and new opportunity for monetization of catalog.
I guess the question is for more front cycle first cycle syndication second cycle syndication I would assume because of your interest in preserving the ecosystem that at an equivalent price you prefer the traditional media distributors because you want to avoid fragmentation of the advertising businesses.
And so I just wonder would that change is that changing am I wrong about that and so that was the nature of my question.
I understand about monetizing longer-tailed catalog content.
Well let's take The CW deal as a template.
We'll look at each deal on a case-by-case basis.
As a general matter we would like to maximize the lifetime value of our content.
It depends on the nature of the show.
So for example for a show that may have substantial value in the syndication window or even the potential for multiple cycles think of a big hit comedy we might not license pre-syndication at all.
We might not license to SVOD at all for one of those because it be hard for an SVOD licenser to pay the money that would cover all the later cycles.
But for shows that might not be a great fit for traditional buyers of syndicated programming particularly serialized stuff and depending on the demographic appeal it may make sense to license those before even the traditional syndication window because the traditional syndication window for some of those shows think of The CW shows we licensed to Hulu and to Netflix actually fit that description.
So it really depends on the nature of the programming.
But there are certain kind of clearer categories into which a Netflix or a Hulu can provide added value.
John? Just quickly on your second question which is thoughts on the buyback.
We think we've been very opportunistic this year in accelerating the pace of the buyback in light of the dislocation of the equity markets coupled with the very very attractive interest rate environment that the debt markets have been providing.
And that's been -- we think it's been smart to sort of use this year to somewhat alter our capital structure move it more towards optimization.
And we've kept in mind the 2.5x leverage target that we've been talking about all year.
I'm not going to get into the specifics as to what our plans are going to be beyond this year.
I mean we've got an existing authorization which we still have ways to go.
And then I would say we're going to be looking at the 2.5x leverage ratio and evaluating all of our alternative cost of capital against that backdrop.
The next question is coming from the line of Doug Mitchelson from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess a question for Jeff and John as well.
And sort of a light at your comments around The CW.
I do have a question on the Warners library value and it seems like it's a significant opportunity for 2012.
I want to make share we have a handle on the opportunity of the short term relative to your ultimate long-term strategy.
And I guess the questions are you going to take baby steps with SVOD or a giant leap? And what I mean by that is you've got a lot of TV shows that could have outside strategic value to online distributors sort of obvious to the list Seinfeld Friends and so on.
And so I guess first do you actually control the licensing for Seinfeld or is that at Sony? And then second again as you sort of think you sort of want to position 2012 for all of us should we be thinking about the potential for a full library deal or is this something where we should think that you're going to take baby steps? And then for John I'm just curious if the amortization for television programming is changing now that the online SVOD window's getting locked in.
So do you expense less upfront and more later in the show which could help TV Production profitability in the short term? Well that's 3.
Okay.
Seinfeld is controlled by Sony in licensing but we work well together.
On the opportunity you're quite right about because Warners is so big about what we've got for online and a number of distributors: Netflix Hulu Amazon and others.
Yes it's a big one.
I don't -- we've never taken a baby step with anything.
We did not recently take baby steps.
We were not reticent or slow to do any of that.
It was all the way we were planning to enforce and increase the value of all our programming to all our distributors including the new SVOD-type distributors.
So the recent deals are pretty big.
We're happy to do big deals.
We just want them to fit into the support of the other gigantic deals that we do every month with traditional networks.
So there's plenty of room for us to do more deals out of our giant library of film and TV and not just from Warners but some of our other programming that we make.
If the people that want to buy it can afford it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough and then John on the amortization? Yes Doug.
So 2 things.
The first is as it relates to the sale or well rather as it relates to just catalog or proven shows it's really a nonevent because the amortization on those in many instances has already occurred or has largely occurred.
I think your question probably is going more towards as we produce new shows and sell those in and there I think we're going to need to evaluate it as time goes on.
It's probably too early to say at this point in time there would need to be a track record of a demonstrated window where we could basically really count on the fact that it would be there and then yes you're right.
Over time maybe we have the ability to change somewhat the recognition.
But at this point I think it's too early.
Research Division</strong> Because you haven't done a big Netflix deal yet it's not influencing in the accounting that's basically at this point.
So no impact on 3Q.
That's helpful.
We did a reasonably big Netflix deal.
Research Division</strong> Yes from the new Warners.
Your next question is coming from the line of Vasily Karasyov from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I have one clarification and one question.
How do we reconcile your expectation for HBO subscription revenue growth when Time Warner Cable says the premium revenue is down I think they said 7%.
And then Jeff looking at your international networks what do you think is the structural opportunity for the run rate of revenue growth? You clearly are not growing as fast as some of your peers for example Discovery that reported earlier.
And if you could tell us what you think the drivers of the delta are.
Okay.
First on HBO.
I don't think there's a reconciliation issue.
We're generally strong network growth both in programming and revenue.
With any one particular distributor that may not be availing itself in that case you mentioned a specific one but the real upside in profitability that they should get from a network that's as successful as HBO is with every other distributors.
So I think you're talking -- your question is really one for that cable distribution company not for HBO which is doing quite well with everyone and frankly I think we're on the -- I think that's kind of a backward-looking statement they made because we are working with them to dramatically improve their performance in premium TV.
On international I don't think I understand your question.
Our international networks are growing pretty fast.
And as we've said before between HBO and Turner we think we can double the operating income over the next 3 to 4 years and they're already making $0.5 billion.
They're very different assets from what Discovery does.
They're in different markets.
And international news particularly is a different animal but that doesn't change the fact that international position share growth of revenue and earnings is going to be very strong for Time Warner both at Turner and at HBO.
And HBO international is growing quite rapidly.
And remember the nature of our business international is beyond just networks.
So for example the third quarter our international revenues were up 29%.
And as a percentage of revenues we grew to 33% of our total and we had huge year-over-year gains in Warner Bros.
which on an absolute dollar basis is the biggest business we have outside of the U.S.
So we continue to believe that in many parts of the world international opportunities are faster in growth than U.S.
opportunities and we intend to execute on that over time.
Your next question is coming from the line of Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First just digging in a bit deeper on your ad revenue comments for the fourth quarter.
I think you said it looks similar to the third quarter.
The upfront obviously starts just at a higher base.
Is there some offset? Is scatter not quite as strong as it was in Q3 for you or was it relative softness in rating? And then just second question.
You obviously off to a very good start on TBS and The Big Bang Theory.
Are you -- I know it's early but are you at this point where you hope to be with that show? Yes on Big Bang we are.
It's up dramatically.
It's only 3 weeks in and we think it's going to continue to build and will help the lead in to Conan.
So Big Bang's doing great.
On your question on this ad outlook and the scatter outlook I'm assuming you're asking about the fourth quarter.
As we said on the call the scatter pricing is still up high single to low double digits over the upfront.
In terms of volumes we don't currently have a tremendous amount of excess inventory which John covered in his remarks.
So we're not very active in the scatter market.
But still it's an open question on how much of the strength in the upfront was a result of scatter money getting pulled forward into the upfront.
So the good news is the cancellations for the first quarter have been very limited.
And trends in our international business are good in most territories but we have seen some pockets of softness out there.
And all of that is reflected on our expectation for mid-single digit growth in the fourth quarter.
And that includes also the expectation of no NBA games.
Your next question is coming from the line of Michael Nathanson from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I have one for Jeff and then I'll have a follow-up for John.
Jeff you talked about the NCAA and your willingness to invest near term for long-term benefit.
And I wonder if you talk of the NFL and whether or not they may add some Thursday packages maybe the Monday package sorry the Sunday package is available.
So can you talk about your interest in NFL programming and how you would evaluate what the right near-term threshold level would be for losses whether or not you want to do something with the NFL or not.
As you know we've said it a lot.
Sports is an important part of the offering at Turner but we're focused on having the right sports.
So TBS and TNT's model is basically built on a balance of sports original series and acquired series and we try to optimize mostly we get it the mix of those to remain attractive for viewers and advertisers and distributors and a balance of ratings ad growth and subscriber fees.
We're very happy with the performance of NBA Major League Baseball and NCAA and of course you mentioned in NFL we're going to continue to evaluate potential opportunities in the future.
We look at everything including that.
But we can't really comment on exactly what we do in a case like that other than to say just as we did say with NCAA and by the way we've made tremendous progress in the affiliate deals we've been doing so far now that NCAA has gone on schedule that we know that that's going to be quite profitable to us as we had expected.
We'd only do something the size of the NFL if we were very confident we could monetize it.
We would not do it for example as a loss leader in our projections.
So that's basically how we think of things like that.
That would be obviously a giant move if we made such a move.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe I put you on the spot.
If you're going to monetize NCAA do you think you can monetize the NFL? Well I'll tell you later.
Do you have a second question Michael? Research Division</strong> Yes and then for John just going back to you guys gave us a lot of information about fourth quarter scatter versus upfront but scatter versus scatter what you're saying it sounds like it's more mid-single scatter versus scatter growth based on just kind of a map of what happened here.
Is that right? Typically Michael we focus as everybody knows on pricing versus the upfront.
I know that many analysts for modeling purposes focus on scatter over scatter.
Just a quick reminder last year in the fourth quarter for us we think scatter was up probably mid-teens to as much as 20%.
It was really really high.
And as we said on the call right now for the fourth quarter scatter pricing for us is up high single to low double.
So -- and that's off of the strong upfront that we had that was up low double digits.
So the math suggests to your point that scatter on scatter is probably up modestly year-over-year.
The next question is coming from the line of David Miller from Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> John 2 questions for you if I may.
It used to be in the syndication business maybe 10 years ago 15 years ago or so that the golden rule for whether or not a series was syndicated at all at least internationally was 5 years on the air or 100 episodes whichever came first.
Would you say that rule still applies as obviously the most prolific producer out there of television series or is the industry going to sort of a model similar to kind of the Hawaii Five-0 model where episodes are sold into syndication from essentially the pilot episode right away? Yes the generalization is it's getting sold essentially at the same time now.
It's almost day and date.
So it's changed a lot.
It's been that way actually for a while.
Turns out that there are some SVOD players that will buy what is essentially syndicated run on series that don't that they don't know and we don't know whether they're going to have 5 years or 100 episodes in the can.
Your next question is coming from the line of Jessica Reif-Cohen from Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Can you clarify how big the Netflix and Hulu deals are? And are they -- how spread out will they -- would you recognize it as lumpy or will it be spread out? And I just wanted to follow up on something John said earlier.
You mentioned that subscribers are down domestically.
I think we've obviously seen that from pay TV but is that -- how much is it down and is it all just the market maturity or is some of it segmentation? You what to do the Netflix timing to recognish? Yes sure.
So without being overly specific Jessica obviously this is a good deal for us and it's a long-term deal.
It's worth hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue to Warner Bros.
TV and it's pretty high margin.
In the fourth quarter we expect to recognize a little more than $100 million in revenue with operating income of about half of that.
And if you're thinking about next year I would say the recognition is probably similar in terms of order of magnitude and there's lots of mechanics as to why that's the case but it's probably the easiest way to give you some guidance.
On your subscriber question Jessica can you just I'm not sure exactly what you're asking.
Would you just say it again? Research Division</strong> Yes John had mentioned when you were talking about affiliate fees that subs are down.
And I'm just wondering is that because of the market maturity? I mean the U.S.
market maturity or some of the pay TV operators starting to segment with different kind of offers for different consumers or do you think it's that and do you have any sense of where we're going? Okay.
Yes we do.
So let's break it down because that's Turner and HBO.
For Turner most of our networks are fully distributed.
So any variation in subscriber volume essentially varies with multichannel sub growth.
It's not an issue of that kind of less distribution or less universal distribution or any of our networks.
And there's no trend problem or issue there.
For HBO basically the sub volumes are also related to multichannel sub growth because HBO is in most pretty much all of the packages for pay TV other than the ones where our distributor is giving away free subs.
So those have been pretty stable on the volume side and the HBO issue on paying subs had to do with the mix between which affiliates were above or below benchmarks.
It's a little arcane.
The general fact there is the revenues have been very smooth and increasing because the basic paying sub base is strong and stable and growing and the affiliate rates abilities at both Turner and HBO are steady and strong.
And at Turner they're going to increase.
At HBO they may increase in terms of pricing.
Research Division</strong> Can I just ask one follow-up? Not to this but just another question for Jeff.
There was a great article a recent article in The New York Times on what you're trying to do with overhead.
Can you just give us a sense of how you can save and over what period of time? No the Times is very exuberant about these kind of things.
We think we can save what is in those article.
It takes a few years to get to the run rate of those things I'm trying to remember exactly what they wrote.
What we're basically trying to do is whatever waste inefficiency and overlap that we can remove in order to take the money and put it into programming and Internet translations of our services that's what we're doing.
So it's going to take a few years to get to those run rates.
Yes I mean look if you think back what we've been doing over the last few years and if you think about the actions that we've put in place.
When we came in we cut the corporate overhead a couple of hundred million dollars.
We did a soft freeze on pension plan.
We standardized all of our health and welfare plans.
Those cost saves alone which are now in our results are in the hundreds of millions of dollars already.
We have been saying and we're executing against this that we've identified several areas of very very large annual spending in the area of information technology in the areas of real estate and facilities and to a lesser extent in other HR-related back off management areas the back office excuse me.
If you look at the aggregate spend in those areas it's around $2 billion to $2.5 billion and we're going to work collaboratively and establish shared services models that we think could also bring us savings in the hundreds of millions of dollars.
And there was also a reference in the article to a big real estate decision that we're going to be working together as one company to make in the coming years.
To put some perspective around that we spend hundreds of millions of dollars and we occupy 10 buildings in Manhattan and we're open to any and all options.
But we're looking to act in a way where we can bring together and harness the human resources that we have in Manhattan and rationalize our footprint and do it in a very very cost-efficient way.
Your next question is coming from the line of John Janedis from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys talk a bit more about your programming strategy at Turner going forward? It seems like from a ratings perspective the shelf life of some of the licensed content is compressing.
So are you planning on ramping up the number of original hours in prime time or maybe even shifting some of the budget from syndication into original programming? Yes possibly.
I think -- let me say a few things about that.
There's been a lot of speculation about the strength of acquired series on whichever cable networks have them.
And basically I think you lead off with that.
If you have acquired series they do tend to decline in a somewhat predictable way over time.
One question asked are they declining faster? No if you look across the various networks not just ours.
Secondly what has been happening is a bit of an up-and-down supply of high-quality series acquired series that are hits on broadcast.
That could be ours.
There's been a dearth of half half hours which is about to turn around because the networks have a lot more of them on.
So we think that on the acquired series side there's a fair amount of value and it may not go down.
It may go up.
As those series get scheduled with some critical mass on big reach cable networks that offer them on demand.
And remember those kind of series will not be available on demand anywhere else.
So that's the kind of good news on the longevity of acquired series.
If we're all sitting here saying hey the bids are going up and the value is going up on series programming over the lifetime which we've all seen in these deals then that means that the value on whichever outlet puts them on is also sustainable not declining.
Having said that we've all seen for years and both Turner and HBO have been leaders in this that original series can be very important and very significant in terms of CPMs branding the networks content sale profits.
And you get big hits we've had them on HBO we've got them now on TNT.
That's very important value to the network and even content earnings for those kind of shows.
So the issue gets to be one of mix we think Time Warner is in a very advantaged place versus our competition because we make more of these hit shows hours and half hour and sell them to all networks.
We're the only series supplier coming out of Warners that has shows on all 4 broadcast networks and we not only have a show on all of them we have 3 shows or more on all of them.
So that's a fantastic business if you think about it at the Warners side.
The fact that we then have 2 big reach networks at TBS and TNT to pick and support whichever of those become really valuable and to put them on an on-demand offering to support the TNT TBS brands alongside of high-value sports alongside of high-value original series gives us a huge advantage and a tremendous platform and schedule in which to launch original series.
So to finish the obvious thing you've seen it at HBO you'll see it increasing at TNT TBS is to have hit original series on those networks as well.
And we'll see about how many -- if you take the balance of what acquired series are there what originals are there you'd like to increase the originals and that'll probably happen unless there's so many valuable hits coming off acquired broadcast that does it's kind of a balance between those 2 things.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Jeff.
And maybe one quickie is I know it's early in the season but it seems like some of the younger skewing networks like Cartoon are seeing some rating softness.
Do you think that's maybe a timing issue related to when the programming hits or maybe the beginning of a new trend where the audience is fragmenting? In Cartoon among the younger audience it's a long and complicated story between Disney Nickelodeon and Cartoon and whichever program we happen to have that are hits.
We have a few new promising hits and some others that have been eroding.
What I would call your attention to economically because you've mentioned Cartoon Adult Swim is a hugely successful network with rapidly increasing ratings CPMs ad revenues and probably affiliate fees.
So don't forget that one.
Don't forget truTV.
I think with that we'll cut it off and thank you everybody for listening in.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Welcome to Time Warner Inc.'s Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today's conference.
[Operator Instructions] Please note today's conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Doug Shapiro Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin the call.
Thanks.
This morning we issued 2 press releases one detailing our results in the fourth quarter and full year and the other providing our 2012 business outlook.
Before we begin there are 2 items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our site.
And second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Thank you and I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Good morning and thanks for listening in.
We had a great fourth quarter capping another great year.
In 2011 we grew revenue 8%.
That's our highest rate since 2003.
We grew adjusted operating income 9% and we grew adjusted earnings per share 20% exceeding our guidance.
In fact we've more than doubled our adjusted EPS over the last 3 years.
We had a strong year operationally too.
We not only maintained our leading position across almost all of our businesses in most cases we took share.
We're at the vanguard of the industry in advancing the next generation of digital business models and we expanded our international presence.
At the same time we significantly increased our returns to shareholders.
We directed $5.6 billion to dividends and to stock repurchases buying back 12% of our shares in just one year.
And in 2012 we plan to keep the momentum going.
We'll drive to deliver double-digit growth in adjusted EPS again and we also just raised our dividend by 11% and announced a new $4-billion repurchase authorization.
We intend to achieve our financial goals while remaining as focused as ever on our key strategic priorities: first invest aggressively to create and acquire the best content; second accelerate new business models that harness technology to improve the consumer experience but in a way that supports our economics; third expand internationally in key territories; and fourth continuously work to improve both our operating and our capital efficiency.
Let me tell you how we're pursuing these objectives at each of our divisions in 2012 starting with Networks.
At Turner we'll keep ratcheting up our investment in content as we seek the optimal mix of sports originals and acquired programming.
For instance 2011 was the first year of our 14-year agreement to air the NCAA men's basketball tournament with CBS.
It outperformed our expectations on every count in 2011: viewership digital metrics sponsorships and ad revenue.
The 2012 tournament is just around the corner and we are very pleased with advertiser demand as we head into the tournament.
We're also excited to have the NBA back on TNT.
We've seen extremely strong ratings so far and every indication is that the lockout did not diminish fans' enthusiasm at all.
For 2012 we'll increase investment in original programming again.
At TNT we'll bring back some of the biggest shows on ad-supported cable like the final season of the of The Closer; the next season of Rizzoli &amp; Isles; and the #1 new drama on cable last year Falling Skies.
Starting this summer we'll debut several new shows including our highly anticipated reboot of Dallas as well as Major Crimes Perception and The Great Escape.
You'll also see more original programming on the TBS prime time lineup later this year.
And in 2012 we'll build on the momentum of our original programming at truTV and on Adult Swim.
Both of these networks are coming off record years for viewership.
And last but not least we expect another strong year at CNN.
In 2011 CNN was up more than 20% in its key demo driven by the news cycle and by our programming moves over the past year.
That momentum should serve CNN very well as we head into an election year.
We're refreshing our acquired programming on TBS and TNT in 2012 also particularly in the key prime time period.
Prime time in sports is where our entertainment networks generate the highest volumes and the highest pricing.
In October we put The Big Bang Theory into its regular spot on the TBS prime time schedule and it has been a runaway hit.
It drove a big ratings improvement across the whole network in the fourth quarter and that momentum is continuing.
In January TBS was up 30% in prime time posting its highest ratings ever and making it the #1 entertainment network on cable.
At HBO in 2012 we'll bring back the biggest hits on premium TV.
In their most recent season True Blood attracted 13 million viewers per episode Game of Thrones attracted 9 million and Boardwalk Empire attracted 8 million.
Considering HBO is in 28 million homes that kind of share is unmatched anywhere on television.
In HBO homes those are 30s and 40s.
We're also excited about several new shows on HBO.
Two weeks ago we premiered Luck a new show from David Milch and Michael Mann starring Dustin Hoffman which has received fantastic critical reviews.
And later this year we'll debut the Newsroom from Aaron Sorkin and a host of other new shows.
We also will expand the slate of original shows on Cinemax this year.
In 2012 our networks will continue to be at the forefront of TV Everywhere.
Two years ago TV Everywhere what many call authentication was only an idea with no technology underlying it and no industry support.
It's come a long way.
Today authenticated TV has been embraced by every major distributor and program.
Until now we've been chiefly focused on availability of TV Everywhere.
Now it's time for the whole industry to drive consumer awareness and consumer usage.
To really excite consumers we think TV Everywhere needs to be easy: easy to access and easy to use.
It needs to offer a robust amount of content for every network and it needs to be on multiple devices including connected televisions.
HBO GO is a great example.
It has millions of active users.
Consumer satisfaction scores are through the roof and we're seeing a big increase in the monthly viewing.
And that's before we have a meaningful presence for these apps on everybody's television set and that will happen soon.
During the fourth quarter we signed agreements at HBO with both Time Warner Cable and Cablevision that will bring availability of HBO GO and MAX GO to essentially all of HBO's domestic sub base.
And the HBO GO app will soon be available on the Xbox and we'll continue to roll out apps for more connected devices throughout the year.
At Turner we're now making almost 1 000 hours of on-demand TV Everywhere content and live feeds of CNN and Headline News available to almost 80 million homes.
We've rolled out apps for all our major networks.
And in 2012 we'll add more content and support more devices including connected TVs.
Our networks are also growing at a rapid clip internationally.
At Turner our international operations grew to 20% of revenue in 2011.
That's up from 18% in 2010.
We saw a very strong performance in Latin America in particular where we're now the largest provider of multi-channel TV networks.
We experienced very strong growth internationally at HBO too.
Including our joint ventures in Latin America and Asia both subscribers and revenue increased well over 20% in 2011.
In 2012 HBO will launch new premium networks in several territories including HBO Netherlands this week.
We'll increase international local production and roll out new features at our international networks like high-def and on-demand.
We've now launched HBO GO as an authenticated service in 8 countries.
And this year we're shooting to complete our rollout across Central Europe and across Latin America.
When including HBO Latin America and HBO Asia our combined international network businesses at Turner and HBO generated over $3 billion of revenue and over $650 million of adjusted operating income in 2011.
And as we told you last year our goal is to reach $1 billion in operating profits at our international networks by 2014.
I'll turn next to Warner Bros.
where we will also be investing to press our competitive advantages.
Our film division had another great year in 2011 surpassing $4 billion at the global box office for the third consecutive time thanks to successful event films like The Hangover 2; Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows which is currently tracking for $0.5 billion in global box; and of course the last Harry Potter.
As I mentioned to you last quarter we expect the Harry Potter franchise to endure long after the last movie release.
In December we reached agreements with Universal Studios to expand The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Orlando and to bring a new attraction to Los Angeles.
These deals call for a significant increase in license fees starting in 2014.
We're excited about our event film slate in 2012 too.
Just like you we're eagerly awaiting the premiere of The Dark Knight Rises which is already selling out midnight IMAX shows in July; and the first installment of The Hobbit coming this year; as well as Dark Shadows from Tim Burton and Johnny Depp; and a movie called Gravity with George Clooney and Sandra Bullock.
At Warners' television production arm after a terrific 2011 we are ramping up investment again in 2012.
We're continuing to see very favorable demand trends.
The broadcast and cable networks are increasing investment in original scripted TV.
There's strong demand for the biggest hits coming off broadcast into syndication.
We're still seeing international license fees climb even in Europe.
And of course there's new demand from SVOD providers both here and overseas.
On top of those secular trends Warners has had a really strong first half in the 2011-2012 season.
We're seeing fantastic performance from a number of our returning shows including Two and a Half Men The Big Bang Theory and Mike &amp; Molly.
And we have several freshmen hits such as 2 Broke Girls Suburgatory Person of Interest and Alcatraz.
These shows will pay dividends for years to come as they enter the syndication market.
Last year Warner Home Entertainment had another standout year in a very challenging environment.
We were #1 again across every home entertainment category and once again grew our share.
This performance reflects the advantages of our scale the demand for our event films even as consumers have become more selective and it reflects the benefits of some of the steps we've taken to establish new windows.
In particular in 2010 we instituted a 28-day window for kiosk and DVD-by-mail services.
That enabled our titles last year to significantly outperform comparable titles released by other studios without a window.
In 2012 we'll keep pushing to define the next generation of business models for home entertainment.
As part of that we're using windows to advantage our higher contribution distribution channels.
Last month we announced an agreement with Netflix to extend the 28-day window for DVD-by-mail to 56 days.
We'll keep working to extend the window for kiosk providers and for brick-and-mortar retailers too.
We're also trying to make digital ownership much more compelling for consumers.
That's why we've been a big supporter of UltraViolet.
Warners was the first studio to release UV titles and Flixster was the first service to allow consumers to access them.
All of our new releases on DVD and Blu-ray are now UV compatible.
We're looking forward to more studios releasing more UV titles and more retailers supporting the standard over the course of the year.
It's certainly early but the consumer response we've seen so far reinforces how much pent-up demand exists for an easy way to manage and access digital movie collections.
Turning to Publishing.
Time Inc.
continues to be the clear leader in its industry despite a tough environment.
In 2011 it took share for the third consecutive year creating the widest gap over #2 competitor in 5 years.
In 2012 we'll remain focused on continuing to grow our share and tightly manage our cost structure.
Like our other divisions Time Inc.
is pushing the digital evolution of its businesses more aggressively than any of its competitors.
For instance we've now launched tablet editions for all of our domestic titles.
We're convinced that the tablet will offer more value to both our readers and our advertisers.
And if the model develops properly it should enhance traditional magazine economics.
That's one reason why I'm thrilled that we were able to bring on Laura Lang as the new Time Inc.
CEO.
Laura's leadership experience and her knowledge of the intersection of marketing and digital make her the perfect executive to lead that charge.
Next John will discuss our financial results including the fourth objective I mentioned earlier: improving our operating and capital efficiency.
Before I hand it off I want to take a step back.
We're only 2 years into our life as a smaller content-focused company.
They've been 2 really good years but I think our best years are ahead of us.
The digital transition is driving higher usage across our businesses and it's increasing the value of the high-quality content that we specialize in.
New opportunities are opening up for us technologically and geographically.
We are focused on being able to capitalize on those opportunities and we are in a better position than ever to do that.
And with that I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'm going to begin by referring to the first slide which is now available on our website.
As we headed into 2011 we discussed with you our plans to be more aggressive in pursuing our goals of investment growth and returns.
We achieved or exceeded our targets on all counts here.
We grew revenues 8% the highest growth rate since 2003 and we grew adjusted operating income 9% to a record $5.9 billion.
That translated to 20% growth in adjusted EPS to $2.89 also the highest amount in the company's history.
And as Jeff mentioned over the past 3 years adjusted EPS has now more than doubled.
And we achieved these results while investing even more in our businesses to strengthen their competitive position and drive long-term growth.
In 2011 we increased investment in programming and production and marketing in the high single digits while reallocating resources away from less productive areas like G&amp;A.
Notwithstanding these significant investments we were able to maintain very high levels of returns on invested capital.
And as the way we look at it which exclude certain purchase price adjustments our return on invested capital was at about 20% in 2011.
And at the same time we accelerated our direct returns to shareholders.
And between dividends and share repurchases we returned $5.6 billion.
In 2012 our goal of once again delivering double-digit adjusted EPS growth reflects confidence in continued growth despite the uncertain economic environment current volatility and some difficult growth comparisons.
And we remain committed to direct returns to shareholders as evidenced by our board's decision to both increase the dividend by 11% and to authorize a new $4-billion share repurchase program.
Turning to the next slide I'll quickly take you through the quarter where we had the highest levels of revenue adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS in the company's history.
As we expected the fourth quarter was our strongest in terms of year-over-year growth in both adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS.
It was the ninth straight quarter of year-over-year revenue growth including growth across all sources of revenue.
Adjusted operating income was up 20% with margins expanding nearly 300 basis points and adjusted EPS grew 40% year-over-year in the quarter.
In addition to the strong growth in adjusted operating income the EPS growth was helped by having fewer shares outstanding due to our ongoing repurchases as well as a lower tax rate.
So let me turn now to our divisional results and let me begin with the Networks group where the fourth quarter was very strong and it was a strong end to what was a really really good year.
For the year we grew revenues 9% with solid revenue growth at both HBO and Turner and we grew adjusted operating income mid-single digits and that's despite the effect of the first year of the NCAA basketball tournament.
In the fourth quarter we posted the highest growth in adjusted operating income of any quarter in the year.
Advertising revenues grew a modest 2% in the quarter and that growth was negatively impacted by the NBA lockout lower scatter demand and lower ratings at TNT as well as foreign currency translation.
At our international networks advertising revenue growth was up in the high single digits and that included about a 400-basis-point drag from currency translation.
We continue to see strong growth in our European and Latin American entertainment businesses.
In 2012 advertising growth is tracking somewhere around the mid-single digits.
That reflects positive rating trends at most of our networks particularly TBS.
Scatter pricing is up solidly over upfront levels although volume remains relatively behind recent years.
Advertising growth also reflects the ratings challenges that I just mentioned at TNT as well as the lingering effect of the NBA work stoppage.
While the fan and the viewer response to the return of the NBA has been very strong and very encouraging some of the advertising dollars that are usually spent there were committed elsewhere during the lockout period.
And we fully expect that to be a temporary effect that will be resolved by returning to a normal selling cycle.
Moving over to subscription revenues at the Networks which grew 5% in the quarter and 6% for the year.
Similar to what we discussed with you last quarter certain affiliate fee adjustments in the fourth quarter and the prior year reduced growth by about 1 percentage point in the fourth quarter.
Looking over at the content revenue sales of HBO original programming drove another year of strong growth in 2011.
That included the second cycle syndication of Sex and the City and the international licensing of Boardwalk Empire and Game of Thrones.
Looking at HBO subscriber base for a moment domestic subscribers increased nearly 200 000 for the year and that was despite flat multi-channel households as well as continued losses at a couple of major domestic affiliates.
This year in 2012 we're optimistic that we'll see improved trends at each of these distributors.
As Jeff mentioned we're also really pleased that HBO GO and MAX GO will now be available to nearly all domestic subscribers.
And we believe that this will both extend the life cycle of existing subscribers as well as help attract new subscribers.
HBO also grew its international subscriber base by over 25% to end the year at about 53 million so the global subscriber base now at HBO is around 93 million subs.
Adjusted operating income at the Networks group segment increased 27% in the fourth quarter with margins expanding nearly 600 basis points year-over-year.
Growth here was boosted by the timing of programming and marketing expenses which were down from the fourth quarter of 2010.
And for the year programming expenses increased 12% and we've discussed that with you in the past.
Excluding the impact of the NCAA basketball tournament underlying programming expenses would have been up in the mid-single digits which is right on expectations.
For 2012 we're looking forward to another great year at the Networks group.
We expect healthy subscription revenue growth despite the likelihood that currency is going to be a headwind particularly in the first half of the year.
And while we don't have a crystal ball on advertising we are cautiously optimistic here.
We had a very very strong 2011 2012 upfront and advertisers continue to focus their spending on national television.
On the cost side this will be the second year of the NCAA men's basketball tournament on our network so we don't have the same challenging cost growth comparisons that we did a year ago.
And while we'll keep increasing investment in programming in a controlled way we'll fund that in part by limiting growth in non-revenue-generating expenses.
So putting that all together we anticipate the Networks group the profit will grow faster this year in 2012 than it did in 2011.
Let me turn now to film where Warner Bros.
had its best year ever in 2011.
Revenues were up 9%.
Adjusted operating income grew 16% to a record of nearly $1.3 billion.
Warner Bros.
had the biggest box office hit and the most successful home video release of the year with Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
It also had the biggest syndicated hit on television with Big Bang Theory which is now the #1 comedy in television syndication.
And it also had one of the most successful video game releases of the year with Batman: Arkham City.
So 2012 will obviously have difficult comparisons to the record 2011 performance which may result in lower profits this year compared to last year.
Industry home video trends remain challenging.
However we still believe that it's going to be a very strong year at this division.
At the end of 2011 for example backlog reached around $5.5 billion and that's the highest year-end level ever.
And it's up close to 35% from just 3 years ago.
Backlog is the amount of unrecognized cash licensing revenue for television and theatrical product.
And although all of that won't be recognized in 2012 it's an important indicator of future revenue pipeline.
We're also optimistic about our film slate this year as Jeff described and we should also have another strong year at the TV studio as well.
We're continuing to see strong demand across all end markets: broadcast cable domestic and international syndication and SVOD.
And we'll benefit from another solid lineup of the syndication pipeline which this year includes The Mentalist.
So tough comps aside it should be a great year at Warner Bros.
Over at Publishing.
In 2011 Time Inc.
posted double-digit profit growth in the quarter and the year.
Advertising revenues were flat in the quarter and slightly down for the year.
Subscription revenues were also down 2% for both the quarter and the full year and most of that was due to continued softness at the newsstand particularly in the celebrity category.
Looking into the first quarter we're seeing continued softness in both advertising revenues and newsstand sales.
Adjusted operating income was up 23% in the quarter with margins up 400 basis points though much of that growth was due to lower restructuring and severance costs.
For the year margins grew 150 basis points and that's the highest level since 2007.
2012 we continue to expect a challenging revenue environment and we'll be making investments in tablet initiatives as well as experiencing increased physical costs like postage and paper.
All of that could make profit growth here at this division difficult.
Turning to the next slide.
2012 let me provide some context for the outlook this year.
We fully expect to see longer-term secular strength in most of our businesses.
Demand for high-quality content is increasing.
TV advertising is taking share and international opportunities are expanding.
So we're investing aggressively against these significant opportunities particularly in original programming and our company-wide Content Everywhere strategy.
We'll also invest in our enterprise efficiency initiatives which are focused principally in the areas of real estate and information technology.
As part of that drive we anticipate corporate expenses will actually trend somewhat higher this year.
We're doing that though with an aim to generate material recurring annual savings over time once these initiatives are fully implemented.
We're also doing all that against a backdrop of what is the uncertain macroeconomic environment and we expect that there could be some volatility in exchange rate changes.
And in fact at current rates FX translation could be a drag of about 200 basis points on growth in adjusted operating income in 2012.
We have a lot riding on the success of our film slate this year although we've said we're very optimistic.
And all of this that I just described perhaps makes forecasting a little harder this year than it has been over the past several years.
But nevertheless we're setting a goal for ourselves and we expect to post double-digit adjusted EPS growth again this year.
One housekeeping note.
As you think about the progression of the quarter similar to what happened in 2011 keep in mind that we have difficult content comps at Networks in the first quarter.
And our film profitability will likely be heavily weighted towards the back half of the year as it was as I mentioned in 2011 due to the timing of theatrical and home video releases.
Turning now to the next slide which details free cash flow.
2011 we delivered approximately $2.7 billion and that was higher than we anticipated when we came into the year.
And that was the result of very strong free cash flow generation in the fourth quarter.
In 2012 we expect the conversion ratio of free cash to be in the same range as it was in 2011.
Our use of working capital should be somewhat lower than it was in 2011 but we expect that to be somewhat offset by higher cash taxes and higher cash interest.
And that's due to the debt that we issued last year.
So let me end with the final slide which shows a reconciliation of our net debt balance.
We ended 2011 with $16 billion in net debt and that was up about $3.2 billion compared to the end of 2010 and it was up about $750 million compared to the third quarter.
Our leverage ratio is now close to our target of 2.5x.
That's up from around 2x at the end of 2010 and it was the result of an effort to improve our capital structure.
We achieved that by spending $5.6 billion on share repurchases and dividends and that's up 80% from 2010 levels and was more than double our free cash flow generation in 2011.
We also spent a little under $400 million on M&amp;A actions.
In addition we took advantage of market conditions last year to strengthen our balance sheet by raising long-term debt and amending our $5-billion revolving bank credit facility which reduced annual cost and extended terms.
So if you look back over the past 3 years the approach that we've taken has really been one of balance and consistency.
And since 2008 we have generated around $8 billion in free cash flow.
We've paid out close to $3 billion in dividends.
We've repurchased almost $8 billion of our shares or 20% of the base and we've made $2-billion worth of acquisitions.
At the same time we remained very very focused on maintaining our balance sheet strength and retaining flexibility.
This year our philosophy of capital deployment will not change.
We're going to continue to look for the right balance between maintaining a strong and flexible balance sheet while actively deploying our capital to invest in our businesses make acquisitions and deliver returns to shareholders.
We continue to believe that a target leverage of 2.5x is the level that best balances all of these aims and goals.
So you could see from our continued commitment to direct returns in the board's decision to increase the dividend and authorize the new share repurchase program.
But now that we have reached the target leverage the excess capital that we're going to deploy will be primarily determined by the growth in our businesses and our free cash flow generation.
So as of now we expect buyback levels in 2012 to be lower than they were in 2011.
Now let me turn the call back over to Doug to begin the Q&amp;A portion of this phone call.
Thank you very much.
All right.
Thanks John.
Christine can we get the Q&amp;A started? [Operator Instructions] Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Spencer Wang from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I have one for Jeff and one for John.
Jeff on some of the new technology initiatives I was wondering if -- with HBO GO if you've seen that help the churn numbers.
And if so if you could maybe quantify that.
And on UltraViolet would you consider an earlier UltraViolet window to stimulate UV sales? And then secondly for John I know at cable networks you said the margin sounds like they'll be up year-over-year.
Should we expect programming cost growth then to be around mid-single digits? I think your first question was HBO churn? Research Division</strong> Right from HBO GO.
We're really happy with the user data and the satisfaction letters -- levels that we're getting.
The subs really like it.
Viewership is up a fair amount in the homes that are using GO.
It's pretty early to tell exactly what that will do mathematically to the churn across the base.
So we expect it will be sometime before we start to get a real sense of that.
But GO basically it obviously makes it easier to watch HBO.
It brings new subs in and extends the life of existing subs.
So it's going to be an increasing net positive.
Think of it really as what we've already seen at HBO over the years on Video on Demand which raised the viewing and helped stabilize the sub base.
Same thing with GO.
And then what should make that even more powerful is when more and more affiliates put HBO GO across all devices.
There's been a little friction and not as much speed as we would like in having all of our subscribers to HBO get GO on every kind of device.
On the early window for electronic sell-through we're evolving the windows all the time.
And as you know we've had some efforts on rental which are more like tests.
The powerful thing would be to have that electronic sell-through start earlier.
And one of the issues for that is really the security of the television.
And as the ability to secure the early release gets more -- when we get more confident in that I think that the whole industry will move towards earlier sell-through.
But not -- we don't see any reason that that has or will cannibalize theatrical.
And we think it can fit in correctly with the current retail distribution system that you have for physical.
Spencer it's John.
Your question regarding programming cost and network margins.
For 2012 I think it's going to be pretty consistent with what we've done over the past 3 to 5 years.
Think about programming cost increases going up in a controlled way mid to high single digits.
Remember it's an election year.
We'll spend a little bit more at CNN for news gathering costs.
There'll be an increased investment in original programming to try to take advantage of our lead positions.
And like we've done in the past we're going to continue to shoot for all other costs at the Networks division including marketing SG&amp;A overhead other back-office-related costs -- those are going to grow at a much slower rate.
So those will grow sort of low to mid.
So that on a combined basis overall expense growth should be mid-single digits and we would anticipate margin improvement.
The next question comes from Richard Greenfield from BTIG Research.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on the last question because I think it's important.
When you look at the goal of getting TV Everywhere to the television some of your biggest distributors like Comcast Time Warner Cable and DirecTV have all decided that HBO GO isn't going to be accessible for right now on devices like the Roku.
And it's unclear what they will or won't allow in the future.
They seem to cite customer data retention or viewership information as an issue here.
Just wondering if you could give us your sense of kind of how this gets worked out and how the industry is going to get comfortable with this because it seems like getting into the television is what has made Netflix so successful and it seems like what it will really drive HBO GO's success as well as other of your TV Everywhere platforms.
And then just a quick follow-up.
In the press release you cite licensing profits from Turner for both Q4 and 2011 drivers.
Can you just give us a little sense on what was in there? I'm glad you asked us both of those.
So let's go to the first one.
Frankly I don't understand the reticence of distributors to authenticate on third-party sites like Roku and get HBO and TNT and all of those channels to television.
As a general principle we as an industry should be making viewers have availability with on-demand TV of all of their favorite networks on any platform any device that they want to use.
And what's kind of powerful about it and I think it's in your question is that by authenticating TV Everywhere basically that whatever network you like on all devices and platforms cable operators would be making the video subscription they sell to consumers enormously more valuable.
They would therefore make it much less likely that a consumer would cut the cord.
They would basically bring on stream all those younger people that are wondering whether they're ever going to subscribe to cable.
And so by providing ubiquitous access to TV channels on demand they would diminish the relative value of over-the-top services or SVOD services that are really nothing more than the same programming offered on demand in a later window.
So as an industry and I'm speaking now for all our networks we've got great fresh really popular programs.
We ought to make it available to our viewers on all their devices on demand as easily as we can at no extra charge.
All the -- that's how you fulfill the promise of your brands and of television to viewers.
And I'm hopeful that the industry will move pretty quickly past some of its -- I think their more minor concerns that they have and they ought to speed up.
Rich it's John.
On your licensing revenue question I think that the press release highlights the content revenues from HBO and licensing from Turner.
It's really "normal course of business" type of stuff.
There's nothing notable in there.
It's the type of licensing revenues that we generated on an annual recurring basis from Cartoon Network merchandising and licensing of our properties there as well as some NCAA stuff.
The next question comes from Jessica Reif-Cohen from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
One John I just wanted to review what's in the guidance really quickly.
I think you said you were cautiously optimistic regarding advertising and I was wondering if you could just maybe size it.
Does that mean mid-single digits or high single digits affiliate fees? It kind of sounded like mid to high.
And then what is in -- would you encompass like SVOD deals for -- well SVOD deals for Warner Bros.
in that guidance? And the second question -- Jeff I'm sorry -- Jeff said that there would be a meaningful increase in Harry Potter license fee beginning in 2014.
So I'm just wondering if you could size that.
How meaningful of an increase and what is your share or what is your split with J.K.
Rowling? I'll start Jessica.
Look on the guidance we're not going to give specific forward-looking guidance on a line-by-line basis.
And my cautious optimism I think is a reflection of the fact that we are planning to see an acceleration from Q4 to Q1 as it relates to ad revenue.
We are seeing scatter pricing up nicely over upfront pricing levels.
In the upfront as I mentioned we were up low double digits in pricing.
The volume has been a little bit light.
And certain categories such as packaged goods have been a little bit light.
So I mean there's some mixed signals there.
But we've got ratings momentum at most of our networks which we're actually quite pleased about and it's not just TBS.
It's Cartoon Network which has been up nicely.
It's CNN.
It's truTV.
And we're optimistic that TNT's ratings are going to improve as we progress through this year.
On the subscription revenue side which has been an amazingly consistent revenue line for us the networks where we've got about $8.2 billion of annual revenues I think what we've said in the past continues to hold true which is that we're experiencing about mid-single-digit pricing increases across the board.
In part the subscriber revenue levels will depend on whether we get unit growth particularly in the U.S.
because we anticipate getting unit growth outside of the U.S.
And then FX which -- FX over the last several months has moved around quite a bit.
Right now it looks like it's a drag but who knows what happens going forward? But the fundamentals of the subscription revenue growth is still very strong and we did experience the high single-digit growth at Turner a year ago that we predicted.
And we think for the sustainable future it's going to be a strong revenue generation source for us.
And remember all of this is before we'd see a meaningful acceleration from the NCAA.
As it relates to SVOD deals I'm not going to be specific.
We had -- in 2011 I think I might have mentioned on the last quarter's call we had revenues recognized in the fourth quarter that were -- that was a little north of $100 million.
And from the deals we've announced we expect at least that same level in 2012 but we've got numerous discussions occurring with multiple SVOD providers.
And what's very clear is there's a fair bit of demand out there.
And frankly Warner Bros.
has the deepest richest and broadest library of both films and TV shows.
So we're quite confident in our ability to monetize that in a value-accretive way going forward.
Let me just add -- John just said it.
Warners has 6 000 films and over 75 000 TV episodes so we're feeling pretty good about that situation.
I think you asked about Harry Potter parks if I understood the question.
And we're really excited about the new agreement that we have with Universal.
It's a great example of how Harry Potter is going to live on and be vibrant in coming years.
It's going to include taking the Wizarding World of Harry Potter to Universal Los Angeles and we're going to expand the widely successful gate in Orlando.
We think it really is promising.
It highlights the power of Harry Potter and really of any great franchise.
And we will start and I think this goes to your question to recognize the revenue from that once the parks open.
So that's a few years off.
I shouldn't forget we're also opening up The Making of Harry Potter this March at our studio outside of London.
And there are many other international theme park locations you're all well aware of all of which represent big opportunities for Harry Potter but we don't -- we're not ready to announce those yet.
The next question comes from Michael Nathanson from Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of housekeeping questions for John.
So John on affiliate fees in Networks can you give us the detail between in this quarter domestic affiliate fee growth and international fees? You gave it for advertising.
I want to get it for affiliate fee growth.
Sure Michael.
Let's start with the bigger picture and then we'll drill down.
So affiliate fees in the fourth quarter grew about 5% at the Networks.
And that was I think as I had mentioned in my proactive remarks held back about 100 basis points or so from some what I'd call ordinary types of adjustments that would have occurred in HBO.
And FX as well.
Thanks Doug.
In addition so if you look at the breakout between domestic and international we saw domestic affiliate fee growth of around 4% and international was about 3x that.
If you look though more broadly over the year which I think is a more relevant barometer than any one particular quarter basically our international growth is growing at about twice the level as our domestic growth.
And I think it pretty much holds true that if you look at -- we grew affiliate revenue about 6.5% at the Networks and that was about 5% -- a little more -- around 5% domestic and then international was high teens.
And then averaged out overall as I said on the ad side international growing much faster than domestic and around twice the level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then John on cash flow you gave us a lot of detail.
If you look at your Slide 11 something that jumped out at us was the difference between cash interest and P&amp;L interest and the cash taxes and P&amp;L taxes.
And the question would be is at what point do those 2 things narrow do you start booking cash at the P&amp;L rates for taxes and interest? So what's going on there? It's really timing Michael.
I wouldn't look too much -- that much into it.
One of the reasons why we think cash taxes are going to up in 2012 as compared to 2011 is because of the timing of when the payments occur.
So it benefited us a little bit in '11.
We'll have to deal with higher levels in '12 but we're also going to grow the underlying free cash flow from operations in '12.
So -- but it's one of the reasons why as we talk about 2012 free cash flow we're anticipating our conversion rate of operating income and EBITDA to be roughly constant as compared to '11.
And some of you may remember that we had been projecting that free cash flow conversion levels would accelerate in '12 versus '11.
I would just remind you that our free cash flow actually came in higher in '11 than we were anticipating.
So as a result of that flat conversion is still at very strong levels but it's basically growth in operating income being somewhat offset by growth in interest because of higher net debt levels and growth in taxes.
The next question comes from Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I know you're in the early stages of monetizing your NCAA affiliate deals.
Can you give us an update on how the conversations are going? And do you think these conversations imply that you could see an acceleration in affiliate fee growth beginning in 2013? Well we're really confident in what is going to happen on affiliate side because of that deal.
We've already signed some deals and we're getting more than the -- well we're getting the value we sought.
I'm also -- we're also having pretty constructive conversations with other affiliates beyond the ones we've already done.
Basically we are above the levels that we want and aim to be at in order to go and make this programming investment.
So we're even more confident now than when we signed that this is going to be very profitable for us.
I'm not -- we're not going to get into the exact timing of when the effects of this hit affiliate rates.
It won't be as much in '12 and '13 as it will be in later years and it's going to be very significant.
Research Division</strong> And you mentioned some softness in the volume and the overall advertising market in the first quarter even though scatters are obviously up nicely over the upfront levels.
Have -- those verticals that have sort of pulled back are staying out a little bit.
Are you seeing any abnormal activity in terms of cancellation of commitments for the June quarter maybe from those verticals or just in general? Alexia it's John.
The answer is no in terms of abnormality.
We're seeing cancellation levels in Q2 at or about the same level as we've seen in each of the last 3 years.
And in terms of verticals I think as I mentioned in I think an answer to an earlier question we have seen some pullback from global packaged goods companies.
We've also seen a little bit of softness in some other categories that you wouldn't ordinarily think of and we think it may be more due to timing than anything else.
But there has been some softness in media spending and some softness in movie studio spending but that could be more product specific as opposed to anything secular or cyclical there rather.
So we're not setting off the alarm bells here in any way.
I don't want to misguide you in terms of -- but it's just early days and we're in the middle of February.
And so we just feel like being cautiously optimistic at this point is a prudent way to approach the year.
The next question comes from Doug Mitchelson from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So for Jeff you mentioned expansion in key international territories as a core goal this year.
So I was just hoping if you'd provide more specifics around which territories would be considered key territories and what expansion could entail.
I mean -- well I guess where we're trying to go here is trying to understand the potential size of acquisitions looking forward and whether the $1-billion guidance for international 2014 EBIT includes -- is organic from here or includes likely acquisitions.
We think we can hit those goals with organic growth of what we've already got.
Just to give you a little more flavor we grew revenues double digits around 14% in 2011.
And that's despite the exposure to more mature businesses such as home entertainment and Publishing.
And we're seeing even better growth than that at the Networks.
As you know and John said this we grew the revenue there more than 25%.
The secular trends overseas for Networks are stronger than the U.S.
We're seeing particularly strong growth in Latin America.
We did well over $1 billion across the company there this year.
And as we go to the cable network side we think it's going to be a very key steady and reasonably fast-growing part of the business.
I think we just -- we said it already on the call the $650 million of adjusted OI [ph] that you just referred to.
And we think that that's going to hit $1 billion in the next few years just on organic growth.
The areas where we've been focused to answer I think you asked it geographically are Latin America Eastern Europe.
We put some effort into India.
It hasn't worked very well so far.
But we continue to look at that pretty hard.
And that's where we're going and we're going to build on our positions.
Our margins just to go to that part are reasonably strong in Latin America.
They're not as high as the U.S.
domestic levels.
But it shows you as you go through the world in our Network business that you can have strong margins heading towards U.S.
levels as the markets in which we're operating develop so Latin America first Eastern Europe next and then South Asia after that.
The next question comes from Anthony DiClemente from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was enjoying the narrative from Jeff on more strategically on content and distribution.
I'm just wondering where Apple fits in.
I think I mean it's hard to deny Apple has just become a tremendous force in terms of media consumption.
Is Apple good for Time Warner and the content companies? Where do you see them fitting in terms of distribution of your content? Yes Apple's great for Time Warner.
It's great for films.
It's great for networks.
It's great for magazines.
Remember all are -- basically what happens when you have great interface devices like Apple and you could say the same thing for Facebook is that you have better opportunities for consumers to read or watch our TV our movies and our magazines.
And what you've seen -- and there's I think been confusion out there over the last couple of years is when you look at strong brands hit titles movies TV shows magazines like People all the viewing when you give people choice goes to the hit titles the newest things.
And what we're doing which we've said it over and over -- I'm sorry I'll have to say it again.
We're making our hit shows movies and magazines available to our engaged readers and viewers exactly how they want it for no extra cost in a way that's really even more engaging than how they used to get what they read or what they watched.
So what you have not just Apple but all these technological advances just makes the programming and the magazines more valuable.
And we think we have a model that appeals greatly to consumers.
It's really a proven model.
There's no reason it can't succeed wildly and I think you're really seeing that happen now.
Research Division</strong> And does that stay true as Apple -- there's been talk that Apple television and Apple television will be introduced.
So if the consumer increasingly actually uses Apple as the primary interface for content consumption does that change that create risk to the affiliate model? Or do you hold by your comments here? I'm just trying to figure that out in my mind.
An Apple screen is a television.
So if you like your Sony TV at home or your Samsung TV on the wall or your Apple iPad sitting in your lap they're all televisions and our shows are all on them.
And you can get them all whenever you want for no extra charge.
The next question comes from Jason Bazinet from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 quick ones.
I think there was a difference between net income and adjusted net income of about $173 million in the quarter reflecting the write-down of CETV which I assume is just a mark-to-market gain.
Has anything changed in terms of your view of the strategic value of the assets sort of holding aside the vagaries of the market? And then my second question is and I may be reading something into this that's meaningless but your definition of adjusted EPS seem to include some incremental items related to pension plan curtailments.
Is that meaningful at all? So the good news is I can give the pension plan accounting.
That's just an accounting.
It hasn't changed in our view.
We're very optimistic about CME in that market.
And it's essentially just the stock market there for all companies there.
And we have the mark-to-market on that.
Research Division</strong> But you still like the asset? Yes.
And Jason it's John.
Regarding the change in the definition there's really nothing there other than periodically we go and review the definition and try to figure out whether there are other potential things that could happen that really aren't indicative of our ordinary course of business or our normal business actions.
So -- but it's not significant at all.
In fact if you look back there's nothing really in history that would have captured or fallen into this definition.
So if you -- so it doesn't change the base of EPS with which we're going to compare our future performance against for 2011.
So that's the first point I'd make.
And the second point I'd make and I just want to be clear on this we're not considering doing anything at this point either.
So I don't want to foreshadow something that we're going to do and we're trying to get ahead of it by changing the definition.
That's not the case at all.
It's just that periodically we evaluate the benefit plans that we have and we could make adjustments if we determine that they're in the best interest of the company.
So that's all.
It's immaterial.
There's virtually nothing going backwards.
Thanks a lot.
And Christine I think with that we're just about on the hour.
It's probably time to cut it off but thank you everybody for listening in.
Welcome to the Time Warner First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Hilda and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Doug Shapiro Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Shapiro you may begin.
[Technical Difficulty] Our 2012 business outlook.
Before we begin there are 2 items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our site.
And second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Thanks.
With that let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning everyone.
Our first quarter results put us in a great position to achieve our financial goals for the year.
We grew revenue 4%.
We grew adjusted operating income 6% and we grew adjusted EPS by 16%.
And while these results were very good they understate the strength of the fundamentals underlying our businesses.
Let me give you a sense of what I mean starting with Turner where we're seeing great momentum at many of our networks.
This quarter TBS was up over 30% in prime time in adults 18 to 49 making it the #1 network on all cable for the first time in a decade.
The Big Bang Theory is performing fantastically.
It was the #1 sitcom on cable this quarter and it more than doubled the delivery in its timeslot.
And it's helping to lift ratings across the schedule.
Conan for instance has grown viewership for each of the past 6 months and now outdelivers every other late-night talk show in adults 18 to 34.
These ratings also provide a great platform from which to launch new originals.
TBS will debut several scripted comedies this year: Men at Work later this month Sullivan &amp; Son in July and the Wedding Band in December.
And we'll add unscripted originals starting early next year.
Or consider truTV that just delivered its most-watched quarter ever for men 18 to 34 and it was a top 10 entertainment network in delivery of men 18 to 49.
Cartoon Network is also showing great momentum driven by the popularity of shows like Adventure Time and Regular Show.
And lately it's one of the only kids' networks that's growing.
During the quarter in which both of our major competitors declined Cartoon's viewership among kids 6 to 11 grew 14%.
And Cartoon's sister network Adult Swim is also posting great numbers.
It too just completed its most-watched first quarter ever and again ranked #1 among all cable for delivery of young adults demos.
The one exception among our entertainment networks was TNT where as we anticipated ratings remained challenged in the quarter.
Nevertheless we're confident we'll see improvements starting next month.
And by the back half of this year we expect ratings to be up over last year.
In June we'll have the first refresh of our prime time acquired programming on TNT in several years as we begin to strip The Mentalist.
We'll also debut 4 new originals shows this summer: Dallas The Great Escape Perception and Major Crimes.
And we'll bring back some of our highest-rated originals including Rizzoli &amp; Isles and Falling Skies plus the final episode of The Closer.
At the same time we're continuing to see fantastic performance from our sports programming at TNT TBS and tru.
The NBA on TNT was up for the fifth straight year making it the highest rated in the network's 28-year history with the league.
It's now abundantly clear that the delayed season did not dampen fans' enthusiasm at all.
We're also extremely pleased with the NCAA men's basketball tournament which has exceeded in every way the expectations we had when we signed the contract 2 years ago.
In addition to strong ratings we continue to see great demand from advertisers and very strong performance from our digital properties.
On our news networks CNN faced extremely hard comparisons against the events in Japan and the Middle East in the first quarter last year.
But that's the nature of the news cycle.
Propelled by its brand and global newsgathering capabilities CNN is still the place where more viewers turn when there's hard news.
That was evidenced this quarter when CNN was #1 among 18 to 34s on primary nights.
And HLN was the only cable news network to see growth in prime time compared with the first quarter of 2011.
It was up 7% over last year.
So overall we feel really good about the momentum we're seeing across Turner's Networks.
That underscores the value that we provide to viewers advertisers and our affiliates.
It puts us in a great position as we head into the upfront and it gives us great confidence as we enter our next cycle of affiliate negotiations at Turner.
Over the next few years we'll negotiate tariff renewals for all of our networks with almost all of our affiliates.
We have a number of renewals set for next year and we will just about finish the process by the end of 2016.
We believe strongly that many of our brands are substantially undervalued today.
In this next round of affiliate negotiations we will be very aggressive and correct that.
So as we look out to 2014 and beyond we expect Turner's domestic affiliate fees to grow at a considerably higher rate than they have during the past several years.
I'll turn now to HBO where we're also seeing incredible momentum with our content.
In recent quarters I've said that HBO's programming is arguably better today than it's ever been.
I'd like to retract that statement.
Now there's no argument.
We just debuted the second season of Game of Thrones to fantastic ratings.
This year the series is averaging over 11 million viewers.
That's compared to a little over 9 million on average for the first season.
And that makes it the third most popular show ever on HBO behind only The Sopranos and True Blood.
We're also very excited by a trio of new shows on HBO.
Girls from Lena Dunham and VEEP with Julia Louis-Dreyfus are generating tremendous spots.
And in June we'll debut The Newsroom from Aaron Sorkin.
During the quarter we accelerated the rollout of HBO GO.
HBO GO is now available to virtually all of the domestic HBO sub base.
We also launched on Microsoft's Xbox and on Samsung connected TVs and we'll be announcing additional platform launches in the next few months.
Until now the vast majority of users have accessed GO online or on tablets or mobile devices.
We expect to see even higher usage as it becomes widely accessible on connected TVs.
And while it's still early days we're seeing encouraging signs that HBO GO will have a significant positive impact on our business over time.
Consumers using GO are watching HBO more than the they used to and 93% say GO makes them more loyal to HBO.
A second part to the consumer excitement around GO we're also seeing a bigger marketing push from many of our affiliates.
And in fact HBO is now better positioned and promoted than it has been in years.
Now I'll shift to Warner Bros.
which is also on a roll.
As we've discussed with you before our TV Production business had a great 2011-2012 season.
In addition to strong performances from some of our previous returning shows like The Big Bang Theory Two and a Half Men The Voice Mike &amp; Molly and The Mentalist we also produced the #1 new comedy of the season 2 Broke Girls and the #2 new drama Person of Interest.
So we'll have an extremely strong slate of returning shows heading into the fall.
And while it's a little early to make predictions we are in as strong a position as ever heading into this year's pilot season.
We also saw solid performances from our film slate this quarter.
Journey 2: The Mysterious Island and Project X handily exceeded our expectations.
Notably both Journey 2 and Sherlock Holmes: Game of Shadows surpassed their predecessors at the global box office which is yet more evidence of Warner's skill at managing film franchises.
And while Wrath of the Titans didn't perform as well as we'd hope domestically it's doing very well internationally.
Looking out over the course of the rest of the year we're really excited about our slate and several big releases in particular.
Next week we'll premiere Dark Shadows with Johnny Depp from Tim Burton.
And of course later in the year we'll release 2 of the most hotly anticipated films of 2012: The Dark Knight Rises and the first installment of The Hobbit.
So summing up it's early in the year but we're off to a great start.
The underlying fundamentals of nearly all our businesses are getting stronger.
That makes us even more confident that we'll achieve our financial goals in 2012 and continue to post attractive growth in the coming years.
With that I'll hand it off to John.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
During my remarks I'll refer to a presentation that is now available on our website.
The first slide shows the highlights from the quarter.
Coming into this year we set a goal to deliver double-digit adjusted earnings per share growth again.
With 16% growth in the first quarter we're obviously off to a great start.
And as Jeff highlighted we're seeing momentum across almost all of our businesses which makes us even more confident that we'll be able to maintain attractive levels of growth this year and into the foreseeable future.
During the first quarter revenues were up 4% which was a result of growth across all major sources of revenues.
Adjusted operating income grew 6% and margins moved up modestly despite a $35 million impairment associated with the cancellation of the HBO series Luck.
We were able to do that due to continued cost controls across our businesses including holding SG&amp;A costs flat year-over-year.
Moving down the P&amp;L adjusted earnings per share rose 16%.
Please note that our tax provision this quarter included a nearly $30 million reserve related to a potential resolution of a tax dispute.
So the effective tax rate was higher this quarter than it has been previously.
Going forward we continue to expect that our effective tax rate should remain somewhere around 35%.
Growth in adjusted EPS was helped by our ongoing share repurchase program which underscores our continued commitment to provide direct returns to shareholders.
During the quarter we repurchased about $730 million of our shares and we paid over $250 million in dividends.
So with all that said we're very much on track to meet our financial goals for the year.
And this morning we reaffirmed our full year outlook for low double-digit growth in adjusted EPS in 2012.
So let me move on to a discussion of our business segments and let me begin at Networks where overall growth rates were somewhat modest in the first quarter.
But underneath that Turner was up double-digits year-over-year in adjusted operating income and margins were up 200 basis points.
And that was partially offset by a year-over-year decline at HBO which had difficult comparisons to the second-cycle domestic cable syndication of Sex and the City last year as well as the impairment that I just mentioned.
Subscription revenues at the Networks segment grew in the mid-single digits which was driven by higher domestic rates at both Turner and HBO.
Turning to advertising.
Revenues were up 6% year-over-year and that's a little bit better than we expected when we were coming into the quarter.
There were some items affecting growth in both directions in the quarter.
But if you look through those core domestic growth rates we're pretty close to the 6% that we reported.
For instance as we've discussed with you before due to the NBA lockout we haven't been able to monetize the NBA games at the same level this year as we did last year.
So that hurt growth somewhat in the quarter but that was offset by the timing of a couple of NCAA tournament games as well as the timing of when Easter hit this year.
Moving over to international.
International revenues grew mid-single digits and that would have been up double digits if it weren't for the year-over-year negative impact related to Imagine which is our general entertainment network in India as well as unfavorable foreign exchange rates.
As you may have seen this quarter we've decided to shut down Imagine.
We're having great success in many international territories and including our HBO joint ventures we still expect our international networks business to generate $1 billion in adjusted operating income by 2014.
We're also launching new networks where we see opportunities like HBO Netherlands.
But Imagine was not succeeding so we decided to redirect resources elsewhere.
Keep in mind that although we were losing a lot of money at Imagine it generated about $30 million in advertising revenue over the trailing 4 quarters.
So shutting it down will actually improve profitability but it will be a drag of 50 to 100 basis points per quarter on ad revenue growth for the next year.
Looking to the second quarter the domestic scatter environment looks pretty steady.
We're seeing double-digit price increases over the upfront and very strong demand for our sports properties.
And while it's still early solid pricing and low cancellations are positive indicators for this year's upfront.
Setting aside a number of items advertising growth in Q2 should be as high or higher than the 6% pace we reported in the first quarter.
But reported ad growth will likely be somewhat lower.
The timing of NCAA games and Easter this year and the shutdown of Imagine will both be a drag in the second quarter.
In addition in line with our announcement last November this quarter management of our digital sports properties including SI.com and Golf.com shifted back over to Time Inc.
And that will be a drag on Networks ad growth of about 100 basis points in each of the next 4 quarters in our Networks division.
But of course that revenue will be recognized at Publishing so there's no impact to the overall company.
Notwithstanding any quarterly fluctuations in reported ad growth we feel good about the trajectory of our networks and we're optimistic that this year's upfront improved ratings at TNT and the U.S.
presidential election will help our performance in the back half of the year.
Adjusted operating income was up 3% in the quarter which included the impairment for Luck.
Excluding that programming expenses would have been up less than 4% in the quarter and margins would have climbed over last year.
And I'll point out that despite the impairment we still expect to grow adjusted operating income at the Networks segment at a faster rate in 2012 than we did in 2011.
Turning now to film and TV.
Warner Bros.
has had another great start to a year with adjusted operating income up almost 40% year-over-year.
The increase in adjusted operating income was largely due to growing demand for our television product as evidenced by mid-teens TV growth.
That came from both higher television license fees and increased SVOD revenues.
And as Jeff described we're in a great position to drive continued growth from our TV business going forward.
Theatrically we saw very strong performances from both Journey 2: The Mysterious Island and Project X and we benefited from the carryover from the fourth quarter release of Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows.
Notably both Sherlock and Journey 2 outperformed the first film in their respective franchises.
So as we look to the rest of the year despite difficult year-over-year comparisons in terms of financial performance we remain very very confident that 2012 will be one of the highest years in terms of profitability in Warner Bros.' history.
On to Publishing where both the first quarter revenues and adjusted operating income were down year-over-year.
Advertising revenues declined 5% due to softness in domestic magazine advertising.
Subscription revenues were down slightly as we continue to see softness in domestic and international newsstand.
So with lower revenue adjusted operating income was down $24 million year-over-year in the quarter.
Looking ahead we have not seen any material change in the underlying trends for either subscriptions or ad revenue.
However the comparisons are particularly difficult in the second quarter.
Recall that last year's second quarter was the only quarter during the year where revenues grew year-over-year.
So given the current revenue environment we'll obviously be placing continued focus on cost controls here for the remainder of the year.
And because of this as well as easier revenue comparisons in the second half we expect adjusted operating income growth trends to improve as the year progresses especially in the back half of the year.
Moving on the next slide shows our 2012 financial outlook.
As I noted earlier we're off to a great start and we're on track to deliver another year of double-digit growth in adjusted earnings per share.
As we do from time to time I wanted to offer some perspective as to how the growth will likely come in over the rest of the year.
In terms of progression our results should be weighted towards the back half of the year and in particular the fourth quarter.
The second quarter could be somewhat challenged from a year-over-year growth standpoint and that's a function of a significant intersegment elimination from the Warner Bros.
sale of The Mentalist to Turner as well as continuing challenges at Publishing.
Likewise our film and TV comparisons will be difficult in the third quarter due to last year's syndication sale of Big Bang Theory and the theatrical release of the last Harry Potter film.
So both film and TV profitability as well as overall company growth will be heavily weighted toward the fourth quarter.
This progression is pretty much what we expected as we entered the year.
So we feel pretty good about how things are continuing to shape up.
Turning to the next slide which looks at free cash flow.
We generated nearly $320 million of free cash in the quarter.
That's down from a year ago principally due to higher use of working capital.
And that was due primarily just to timing related to programming payments at the Networks as well as higher cash taxes.
As we noted during last earnings in 2012 we expect to convert about a similar amount of our adjusted OIBDA into free cash.
We expect to convert a similar amount this year as we did a year ago.
And on the final slide which looks at our net debt we ended the first quarter with $16.6 billion in net debt.
That's up about $600 million compared to just the end of last year and that's due almost entirely to our continued returns to shareholders.
We returned almost $1 billion during the quarter including as I mentioned earlier around $730 million in share repurchases.
We've maintained our leverage ratio at around 2.4x and that's close to our target of 2.5x.
So no changes there.
And we still believe that 2.5x strikes the right balance of maintaining balance sheet strength while allowing us to continue to invest in our businesses make acquisitions and return capital to shareholders.
So thank you for listening.
And now let me turn the call back over to Doug where we're going to start the Q&amp;A portion.
Thanks.
All right.
Thanks John.
Hilda let's get the Q&amp;A started.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Spencer Wang from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two questions if I could.
First Jeff you mentioned you're optimistic about the upfront.
I was wondering if you could just maybe talk a little bit about where you think pricing could possibly go and also sellout this year versus last.
And then the second question.
You guys are about 6 months into the rollout of UltraViolet.
So Jeff I was wondering if you could just share with us your assessment of the rollout so far? And would you contemplate any changes in the home video business with respect to Windows or pricing of EST.
All right Spencer.
On the upfront basically it's looking pretty good.
Cancellations are low and scatter pricing is solidly above the upfront.
Historically those are good signs.
And if you just think through our Networks we've got very good momentum.
TBS is the #1 cable network in prime time.
TNT is about to launch a significant refresh of its programming.
truTV and Adult Swim continue to grow with tough-to-reach demos.
It really -- both of them are places where it's hard to reach the audience that watch them -- watches them.
CNN is going to benefit from the election.
And remember CNN has the widest reach.
More people tune in to CNN than any other news network.
And Cartoon Network is taking significant viewing share from its competition probably because a lot of competing cartoon and kids networks have their shows elsewhere not just on their networks.
They're on SVOD services.
So I think we're really well positioned.
And whatever happens in the upfront generally we're going to get our fair share or more than that.
So we feel very good about that.
On UltraViolet basically we're happy with the launch.
We think it's a big accomplishment for the industry and it was something that we had tried to do and see if a lot of others would join up.
And we think UltraViolet offers a compelling ease-of-use way to access your movies from the cloud and on whatever device you want to use.
It's still early but consumers are downloading and streaming in very large numbers.
Just a couple of data points.
More than 2 million accounts have been created and over 5 000 titles are available.
It took 5 months for the first million registrations and then we added 1 million more in the last 4 weeks.
So at this point other studios are releasing in UV not just Warner.
Universal Sony and Paramount have done that.
Both Wal-Mart and Amazon are now supporting UltraViolet and we think other retailers will follow.
And we think it's going to be more compelling as more companies and consumers participate.
The question that I think you ended up with is is it at the right price? We think the first step is to continue to make electronic sell-through product easy to use easy to get easy to understand not intimidating for people to buy.
We don't set the prices but we're going to work with our retail partners who have every interest in making this successful and setting the right price that really satisfies consumers.
Our next question comes from Michael Nathanson from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I have one for Jeff.
And then John just a housekeeping.
So for Jeff over the past couple of years you've been very very adamant in saying that when the syndicated shows go into an online streaming model they have -- the sprockets run off of them which hurts the long-term shelf value.
So I wonder now that we had some time and maybe some other people have different models out there about selling stuff into SVOD I wonder if your thinking has changed about that to what shows can be sold in and what happens to the value in SVOD.
Yes.
As a starting point we want to reiterate that we think and we have all along that there's clearly a role for SVOD in the ecosystem.
And we are more than happy to work with SVOD companies to license our content.
That's what we've been doing.
But to your more precise question which content should we license what content is going to be optimized through SVOD licensing our overarching goal as we've always said is simply to maximize the lifetime value of the content.
And so let's go through what kind of things belong where.
For the shows that are likely to have multiple cycles one consideration is the potential impact of SVOD on the value of subsequent cycles.
So of course if you've got something up on SVOD that runs the sprockets off you're going to erode the value for those kinds of shows that have second and third cycle syndication.
And as we all know some of those big shows have huge second and third cycle values.
So let's take an example like Big Bang Theory which on -- look we're not saying categorically but it's unlikely if you look at the prospects for Big Bang Theory that it's going to go to an SVOD service at least anytime soon for a number of reasons.
It obviously is commanding very high license fees from traditional networks and stations who want exclusive rights for those exhibitions.
There is a very large barter component to that which of course doesn't exist on SVOD as a source of monetization.
And so in that case trying to balance the value of later cycles.
For older content that has either already gone through several cycles or for shows that are serialized -- they therefore don't have multiple cycles and they work better for viewers on a VOD basis -- serialized dramas would be a pretty good example.
That's really not a concern and those are the kind of things that you can be more efficient with when you put them on SVOD.
We had -- for example let's take The CW deal that we did which was an SVOD sale to Netflix.
And those shows had more efficient and higher value in an SVOD service with a little earlier availability than we thought we could get in traditional syndicated buyers.
So it really depends on the nature of the programming.
And what's emerging as we always thought it would is basically an efficient market where the addition of SVOD makes content more valuable and where last point to quote traditional networks that used to buy syndicated products and you thought that all that was was going to be available on a once-a-week or twice-a-week schedule remember all the traditional syndicated buyers particularly cable networks are now putting that product think of the Big Bang Theory on VOD given TV Everywhere.
So you can watch it on TBS multiple episodes.
And Michael I'm sorry.
He didn't ask the question or he did? Did you -- you said you had a question on...
Research Division</strong> No I was going to say John could you just tell us how much Imagine lost last year? Have you seen seasonality to the losses? The losses last year for Imagine were around $70 million.
We lost around $10 million in Q1.
I don't remember the exact seasonality as we progressed through the year but I think the losses grew bigger in the back half.
But I don't remember exactly quarter-by-quarter.
But in total $70 million.
Our next question comes from Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Jeff I wanted to ask you 2 questions.
One just back to your prior comment on the kids market.
And there's a lot of debate out there about the role of kids programming online versus in a linear format.
And I'm curious if you think the decision by Nick Nickelodeon to put content online has at all hurt cartoon or the overall ecosystem by just drawing  eyeballs away.
And then on HBO sort of an unrelated question I've always heard that as you move towards more on-demand consumption whether it's GO or SVOD on HBO that the viewing shifts more to originals and away from film content.
And I'm wondering if that's still true.
And if it is would you consider shifting more of your investment capital away from output deals to originals which actually could in theory drive some margins at HBO? Yes.
First question do we think that having -- and you asked it in the case of kids.
If you look at viewing in cable cable actually continued to take share from broadcast.
That's particularly true if you look in prime time.
It was less clear in total day and we think that the kind of last trend in cable viewing in total day was in kids viewing when kids viewing went to SVOD rather than to watching the cable networks.
Now Cartoon Network was up 14%.
So we didn't have that problem and we think part of the reason is that we don't have our program sitting on an SVOD service where parents can park their kids in front of an SVOD.
And obviously that's taking some viewing away from some of the other animated channels which -- not ours but theirs probably for that reason.
We think the same thing if you don't ask in an animated and you look at regular TV programming.
The more that it shows up on demand on TNT and USA and CBS and the less that it shows up on on-demand services with 100 episodes sitting there with a low commercial load the more you're going to see the same thing.
And that's why we -- our ratings for our shows and our kind of sales and rentals for TV shows that we then put out into the aftermarket do better so long as they're not overexposed someplace else.
If you go to HBO to your question yes.
When people use on-demand they do use it for movies at HBO.
And HBO has a really strong movie lineup that -- it's superior to any other pay TV network.
But HBO also has an even greater advantage in terms of the depth and quality of its original series versus other pay TV.
And so what happens in on-demand is people go and catch up and watch those series.
So there is more original programming viewing in on-demand then there would be slightly.
And it'll probably increase because HBO is in the process right now as we said of dramatically increasing the number of original series on HBO.
What that leads to to your question should we -- would we want to drop a studio? We've said very clearly that the advantage HBO has given the fairly large throw weight advantage we've got in movie deals and the large advantage in original series that we have the luxury of choice of whether we want to drop a studio.
And we're essentially going to evaluate that.
First and foremost for the power of our networks domestically and worldwide because our originals fuel the worldwide business in HBO not just the 40 million subs in America but 60 million-plus worldwide that are growing rapidly that obviously lends to originals.
And then the second consideration will just be economics.
Is it worth it to us to spend whatever we decide to spend on theatrical films? Our next question comes from Anthony DiClemente from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I have one for Jeff and one for John.
First Jeff for films that have exited the post -- have exited the pay TV window.
So they're being marketed on your online distributors like iTunes like Amazon.
I'm wondering if you see an acceleration at all of volume of electronic rentals given really in terms of rental market you have so many more points of purchase in a digital world than you did in the old Blockbuster days.
And then secondly for John it might be helpful just given conversation around your affiliate fee renewals to get some color on the cadence of those renewals? One of the -- when are the bulk of your Turner deals coming up for renewal? And maybe could you even just talk a little bit about the drivers of your potential rights fee increases? Yes that -- okay I didn't understand the first -- You're asking what about electronic? Rental or...
Research Division</strong> Yes I'm just asking about really the split between -- within electronic sell-through the split between ownership and rental.
It seems like in a mobile tablet world the consumer with all this content having the ability to be stored in the cloud might choose to rent as opposed to own more so.
And I understand the economics aren't as good as the sell-through market but maybe you make it up on volume because you've got so many hundreds of millions of mobile devices out there.
And maybe that's what happens because of all the incremental touch points as opposed to a finite number of rental video stores back in the old days.
Okay now I understand.
Yes.
Well passing VOD the statement we made which is true that electronic sell-through was quite robust this quarter and going to your point why would consumers want to buy something if rental and availability of films gets more easy so they don't need to own it.
It's a good question.
It's going to have some -- it will depend on how easy it is to when you own something a film to management -- to manage it get access to it and think that it's important for you to have it that way.
It'll depend on the price as I think your question implies.
And basically then you get to the habit that people have had where they have whether it's in books music TV shows or films there is a tendency for people to collect and to want to own and have available.
And as you -- whatever the movie is.
Even if you say to yourself as your question implies "Well why do I need to own it? I can get it anytime." Although there is a kind of an emotional reaction that if I'm going to have to rent it every time and cost me I'd rather own it.
So you get back to that really trade off in people's minds the ease of having it on the shelf.
Now on the shelf means in the cloud the ease of being able to give it to your kids 8x.
It kind of depends on the genre.
There are plenty of genres you can imagine.
Animated for young kids is one comedies for -- 10s 20s and 30s is another one where people watch them over and over.
And so they don't want to rent them they want to own them.
And then there's some kind of things they love that could be dramas or big epics where they really want to own that and have it in their home.
So I think it's going to evolve.
If you look for data points to your question and look at iTunes which is obviously electronic sale and rental 60% of the money is still purchase versus rental.
Similar to what we had in physical.
But we're not saying to you that we know the -- I think your question is an intelligent one.
I don't mean to say that patronizingly.
We all have the same question where is this going to go? If we make the ownership realities for our average consumer easy and rewarding and if rental continues to get better and easy to use right now rental is easy to use than ownership we'll just have to see it unfold.
And I think pricing -- to the extent that there's pressure on ownership if pricing moves to motivate ownership then I think your question's exactly right where the volume makes up for whatever price adjustment needs to occur.
It's John.
Let me to provide a little bit more context for -- I think you used the word cadence as it relates to our affiliate renewal cycle.
But obviously I'm going to have to fall short of providing a tremendous amount of transparency because we have confidentiality provisions around most if not all of our agreements.
If you look at -- we've already been in the market and we've done some deals as it relates to those networks that are covering March Madness.
And what we have seen by virtue of having done those deals is it's only underscored and increased our confidence in our ability to get the type of rate increases that we think bring TBS TNT and truTV up closer to fair value.
And we have every intention to try to drive rate aggressively to get fair value over time.
The majority of those rate renewals will come into effect -- well they'll all be in effect before the end of 2016 but they'll be on the first material step-up beginning in 2014.
If you look at Turner in total this year there aren't any major contract renewals.
Next year there are certain contract renewals for Networks including CNN and Cartoon Network.
And we feel confident in our ability to drive rate there as well.
So I think we are very very confident in the long term affiliate fee outlook that we've got the pricing increases that we've been able to garner.
And recent deals have only underscored our confidence and they've all been at much higher rates than we've gotten in the most recent rate renewal cycles if that makes sense.
In other words the increases -- yes the rate increases that we're getting now are higher than the rate increases that we got before.
And we have every intention to try to get our networks closer to where we believe fair value is going forward.
Our next question comes from Richard Greenfield from BTIG.
LLC Research Division</strong> Your sub fee growth in the quarter was 5%.
You've answered a couple of questions talking about the growth that's going to come from renewals.
But also wondering historically one of the biggest drivers for all of the cable network industry has been new distributors.
And wondering how you think about the evolution of new distributors over the next few years.
There's the prospect we're hearing more and more of people talking about non-facilities-based distributors these so-called virtual MVPDs.
If people come to you and want to license all of your channels and pay you at the top end of your rate card how do you feel about that risks rewards.
How do you think about what that could do above and beyond the accelerations you're going to get from the core renewals you talked earlier about? Well there are many aspiring entities that do come forth and we want to offer that.
And we do talk with them in detail and as constructive a way as we can.
We're willing to look at anything that makes sense provided that it in fact does provide long-term sustainable distribution.
And one of the major issues when you evaluate that is number one are the economics additive? I think you said it well when you said look those people in order to win programming rights from established well-distributed networks are going to try to offer wholesale money that is at the top end of what goes on right now in the industry.
But the question for whether they're going to be able to pay that is whether offering consumers anything that's really valuable to consumers and whether they're going to be able to deliver quality transmission of network programming.
Think of it high-def think of it on-demand and what that takes and how they're going to do that over the distribution plan.
So we're all looking at that as are the existing distributors.
Whether it's cable operators the telcos DirecTV and DISH all trying to figure out how to continue to move forward offering consumers the kinds of packages that they want whether it's over the traditional video broadcasting that they've used or over Internet protocol.
So it's an open subject.
Right now we don't see -- we haven't seen any particularly viable "virtual MSOs" that would appear to us to have a sustainable ability to deliver a benefit to consumers.
But if we see one of those then we would be open to figuring out whether that would work on a long-term basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then could I just follow up on Hulu? How do you think a Hulu-authenticated model could work for you? Well we think Hulu authenticating makes sense.
We think the authenticating of -- the authentication of the programming inside Hulu which is basically nbc.com fox.com abc.com make sense also obviously because they're trying to strengthen their economic base by adding a carriage fee.
And so if that's -- it's perfectly consistent with having a carriage fee to have the programming available on demand but in an authenticated way whether it's on nbc.com or fox.com or whether it's on Hulu which is the aggregation of those.
We think Hulu's heading in the right direction now and it might be useful -- continue to be viable.
Our next question comes from Vasily Karasyov from Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> One quick one for John.
John what would advertising revenue growth in the quarter be if TNT ratings didn't decline? And then one for Jeff.
Jeff you spoke pretty often about how there is a gap between general entertainment cable networks CPM and broadcast networks.
And I was wondering if you could tell us if you see that gap contracting over the past couple of years and if there is still an opportunity for further contraction? And would it be easier for you now to drive pricing now that TBS rating has stabilized and hopefully TNT will stabilize soon? Actually -- it's John.
Let me try to address your question although I'm not exactly sure how to answer it.
Clearly if TNT's ratings were higher our ad revenues would be higher.
We'd be delivering greater gross rating points and we'd be monetizing our inventory at higher levels.
I'm not going to try to characterize to you exactly the materiality of that because I think in some respects and we've talked about this before over any near term and even medium term the correlation between ratings and ad revenues isn't always perfectly correlated.
So there's lots and lots of things that go into the determination of ad revenues and it has to do with yield managements sponsorships mix of inventory type of demographics that the networks are delivering.
But overall it's clearly a drag on ad revenues and we would anticipate our ad revenue pacings to improve as we progress throughout the year in line or trend-wise with the stabilization and hopefully improvement with TNT's ratings.
And I think you asked about what is the difference in price for CPM between cable and broadcast? LLLP Research Division</strong> Correct.
On what it was contracting? It has been contracting very gradually over the last 3 or 4 years.
We think it's -- we see it continuing.
But it still is 20 or more percent depending on the data point.
I think it also -- just add a little bit there there are certain elements of programming where the CPMs are essentially at parity now.
But there are certain elements of programming particularly scripted originals in prime where the premium that broadcast garners is materially higher than what cable is getting.
So there's a real opportunity to continue to drive that gap narrowing.
The next question comes from Doug Mitchelson from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two jump ball questions for Jeff and John.
First should investors consider that timing -- taking back control of its online properties from the Networks group anyway makes it easier to undertake strategic actions with that segment? And then on HBO with content better than ever how should we think about the impact on profitability over time from the strong original content lineup? Is that something that directly drives 2012 EBITDA growth? Should we think about a delayed impact because we have to wait for syndication sales maybe in '13? Or are you actually reinvesting the increased value and it's really a longer-term EBITDA impact? That'd be helpful.
First of all what we did in the online side of Turner and SI in sports we had an idea that we could combine the Turner digital sports properties which potentially exhibit say basketball baseball et cetera kinds of things.
With the Sports Illustrated site which draws a lot of viewing to analysis and readership coverage of every sport what we found is we just weren't achieving much benefit because the synergy really is between the online and tablet and mobile platforms for SI articles and coverage with the magazine readership.
And in the -- and it's not really with let's say a baseball game or a basketball game on Turner and exhibition.
So we essentially went back to synergizing across the SI platform print and digital and the same thing in Turner Sports.
None of that would have made or does make any difference in how we -- it's not material enough to change how we think about the operations of either Turner or Publishing in case we wanted to do something and allot one of them with somebody else.
I would Just say on that point we think Publishing -- and we have a lead position in Publishing.
It's a very good business that is core to us.
It's got a pretty good return now.
It's coming back up.
The return on capital if you exclude purchase price is now back up into the mid-teens.
So it's well ahead of its cost of capital.
And while we are right now -- and it's a high cash flow generator.
Right now the whole publishing industry is facing kind of a stall in revenue.
So it's not a good situation in the short run.
But in the long run we think there's quite a lot of upside in digital distribution of our publishing position which is a -- we have a very strong lead position across a lot of areas in publishing.
If you go to the HBO question I think it's -- having a continuing increase in hit original programming and basically maintaining as I think we do the whip hand in access to theatrical films in their earliest window after home video puts HBO as a subscription VOD service in the strongest position worldwide.
And as we now have a go on GO in other words it's available over Internet delivery it's increasingly available on that basis all over the world you're going to see obviously therefore support in subscription revenue support and increases in content revenue.
Your question asked or predicted the answer when you make hit series think of Game of Thrones right now True Blood et cetera we're going to optimize the value.
First they go across our subscription networks worldwide and then we sell them when we think the time is right as either an electronic sale or a physical DVD sale.
And those things are going to be pretty considerable because we have a pretty big backlog of successful series that haven't yet hit the revenue line or the profit line in HBO.
So yes it's coming.
It's going to be a steady robust business from now on out.
So just to give a sense because you were asking specific timing as well if you think about 2012 HBO go back to what I said in my prepared remarks.
At HBO our operating income growth is going to accelerate this year compared to last year.
And as you look out over the next 9 months content revenue is going to be up versus the 9 months from a year ago.
So to underscore what Jeff said we're building assets and we're building assets that -- at a deeper pipeline that we're going to be able to monetize in numerous ways going forward.
And the content revenue line is an important line.
The next question comes from Barton Crockett from Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I was interested in the discussion in Filmed Entertainment that revenue growth was partly attributable to subscription video on demand availability of television series.
I was wondering if you could characterize to some degree the materiality of that? And tell us whether to some degree that was related to kind of The CW Netflix deal and give us some sense of how material that might be for you guys going forward over the balance of the year.
We had recognized in the quarter we had about $75 million of SVOD money.
And based on the deals that we've already got to date that we've already contracted to date we would anticipate this year 2012 to recognize somewhere in the area of about $200 million.
And we've got constructive discussions ongoing with numerous other parties as more and more entrants seem to be interested in acquiring the types of shows that we have.
So we've got a couple of hundred million dollars that we'll recognize to date.
But we would assume that that number's probably going to go up.
Research Division</strong> And can you describe to us how we should think about the margin impact of those revenues as they come in? It's high.
Yes no cost.
Yes.
Well it depends on the deal.
But generally speaking considerably considerably higher than the margin that we're -- that is the average margin for the overall segment which is in low teens.
The next question is from David Miller from Caris &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jeff another follow-up question about UltraViolet.
I know you mentioned price as an issue but as I understand it and just correct me if I'm wrong here there's just a number of kinks that just need to be ironed out here.
I mean I don't believe you have one set-top box or game console yet supporting the service and the software -- and please correct me if I'm wrong that the software which is supposed to power the concept has proven largely ineffective on certain PC models.
There's also the iTunes element.
What are you guys doing to kind of iron out those kinks? And I know you mentioned that price is still an issue and I know you answered that first question.
Well if you would give me your address I'll come to your house and I'll wire up all those devices.
Sorry to joke about it but you’re on to a good question which is -- look we -- you got -- we're the studios that own the content.
We're setting up a template that makes it easier for every kind of device maker interface maker software runner and retailer from Wal-Mart to Target et cetera to support and line up with getting you exactly and every consumer the kind of on-site unscrambling of the wires that we all know is life in the 21st century.
So I think when you have everyone aligned in an offering then those problems will get solved.
And I think those are important problems to solve.
It's early in the -- it's early.
This is 1.0 I guess we would say.
So the content is there.
Now the interface companies or functions with real people have to take place.
So that's step 2 and that's what's happening this year.
And I think that'll pick up speed.
Because consumers are going to love this and they're going to demand that they get solutions to those at-home problems.
All right.
Thanks everybody for dialing in.
Sorry about that technical glitch at the beginning and we'll talk to you soon.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Time Warner Inc.
Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Donna and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that the conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Doug Shapiro Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for Time Warner.
Please proceed.
Thanks and good morning.
This morning we issued 2 press releases one detailing our results for the second quarter and the other reaffirming our 2012 business outlook.
Before we begin there are 2 items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our website.
And second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Thank you.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Before we begin on behalf of everyone across Time Warner I want to express our profound sadness about the terrible events at a screening of The Dark Knight Rises in Colorado 2 weeks ago.
Our deepest sympathies go out to the victims of this appalling crime to their families and their loved ones.
We're here today to discuss our quarterly earnings so let me turn to that and thanks for -- everybody for listening in.
Coming into the quarter we knew we had very difficult comparisons in some of our businesses and overall our results came in just about where we expected.
John will go through all of that with you in a few minutes but at the same time we've seen some very important signs of underlying strength in our businesses over the last few months particularly at the networks.
At Turner for example we're continuing to show a strong ratings momentum across almost all of our networks.
This quarter TNT was the #1 network on cable driven by another record-setting NBA season and by our new slate of originals.
Our regular season NBA coverage was up for the fifth straight year making it the most viewed season in our 28-year history with the league.
And we had great performance from our original programming.
On average our original series attracted over 40% more viewers this summer than last year.
Our new shows perception and Dallas are the #1 and #2 series on cable this year.
In fact including The Closer and Rizzoli &amp; Isles the top 4 scripted shows currently on ad-supported cable are all on TNT.
TBS also had a great quarter.
It was up 30% in prime time in its key demo.
The Big Bang Theory keeps dominating the charts and was again the #1 sitcom on cable.
Importantly it's continuing to lift other shows on the network and it provides a great platform on which to launch new programming.
During the last few months we debuted 2 new shows on TBS Men at Work and Sullivan &amp; Son to great success with Men at Work becoming TBS' most popular original series ever.
And rounding out our entertainment networks truTV was again a top 15 network among men in prime time.
It posted its best second quarter ever from men 18 to 49 driven by hits like Hardcore Pawn and Impractical Jokers.
We also had another strong quarter at our animation networks.
Adult Swim remained the #1 network among adults 18 to 49.
And like last quarter Cartoon was the only major kids' network to grow in the quarter up 12% for kids 6 to 11.
Let's just look at the delivery of Cartoon compared to Nickelodeon in that demo.
In last year's second quarter Nickelodeon had almost twice the delivery of Cartoon.
This quarter that gap had shrunk to less than 20%.
The exception this quarter was CNN.
Although CNN's ratings declined in part due to very difficult comparisons with last year to be clear we are not satisfied with CNN's ratings performance and we're focused on fixing it.
Within the last few weeks Turner wrapped up a very successful upfront.
Once again we negotiated CPM and volume increases at the top end of the entire television business among both broadcast and cable networks.
That's a powerful testament to the appeal of our branded environments our content and our ability to offer integrated buys  across platforms.
So our programming and brands are resonating with viewers and advertisers.
Our third major constituency course of is our affiliates.
As we've discussed with you before between 2013 and 2016 we'll enter negotiations with just about every distributor for just about all our basic cable networks making it our biggest affiliate renewal cycle in years.
Turner has some of the most watched and broadest reach networks in cable and some of the strongest brands.
And over the last few years we've made significant investments in our brands and in our programming and we've granted substantial additional rights to our distributors.
So we believe that the value we're delivering to our affiliates exceeds the value we're receiving.
We're focused on correcting that in this next cycle.
In fact based in part on the deals we've already struck we have every confidence that Turner will grow domestic subscription revenue at a double-digit pace annually between 2013 and 2016.
I'll turn now to HBO which is also enjoying strong momentum across its businesses.
The volume of great shows on HBO right now is without precedent.
Game of Thrones has evolved into a bona fide cultural phenomenon recently finished its second season with over 11 million viewers per episode.
And we just debuted the fifth season of True Blood which keeps going strong as the network's most-watched show.
It's on track for more than 12 million viewers per episode this season.
And we have a string of new hits too.
The Newsroom is now attracting more than 7 million viewers per episode and viewership is increasing as the season progresses.
And both Girls and VEEP have enjoyed solid ratings and great critical acclaim.
Underscoring the quality of HBO's content a couple of weeks ago HBO received 81 prime time Emmy nominations.
That's the most of any network for the 12th year in a row and that included outstanding drama nominations for both Boardwalk Empire and Game of Thrones and outstanding comedy nominations for Curb Your Enthusiasm Girls and VEEP.
HBO's experiencing some of the most favorable subscriber dynamics it's seen in several years too.
We've already surpassed 100 million subscribers globally this year faster than we expected.
That's been driven primarily by continued rapid growth overseas.
But we're also seeing encouraging trends in the U.S.
putting us on pace to add more domestic subs this year than we did in 2011.
We've also been very pleased with the rollout of HBO GO.
As you know HBO GO is now available to our entire U.S.
subscriber base.
And over the last few months we've extended support to many new devices such as Xbox Samsung TVs the Kindle Fire and Android tablets.
Although GO has only been available on TVs for a few months we're already seeing average monthly usage increase.
And as we've mentioned before over 90% of GO users say they're now more likely to keep their HBO subscription.
So as penetration and usage climb we're confident that GO will benefit subscriber growth and increase the subscriber life cycle.
I'll move next to Warner Bros.
This was another outstanding quarter for Warner Bros.
Television production.
During the upfront we secured orders from the broadcast networks for 16 returning series and 9 new shows making us the top producer of network TV programming yet again and the only studio with at least one show on each of the broadcast networks.
In addition we successfully brought both 2 Broke Girls and Mike &amp; Molly to the off-network market bolstering our syndication pipeline in 2014 and 2015.
During the quarter we also announced a deal to license Pretty Little Liars and The Lying Game to Netflix.
And recently we struck a deal to syndicate several shows to Amazon Prime including Fringe and The West Wing.
In our theatrical business some of our film releases earlier this quarter fell short of our expectations such as Rock of Ages and Dark Shadows.
However Magic Mike has substantially outperformed our expectations and The Dark Knight Rises is on pace to surpass $1 billion at the global box office.
Batman is now on track to be the second or third highest-grossing franchise of all time.
It's another example of Warner's unparalleled ability to manage broad appeal global film franchises.
You'll see more evidence of that ability with the first installment of The Hobbit which we will release in December.
The film is already generating tremendous buzz.
And earlier this week we announced that Peter Jackson in concert with Warner Bros.
and MGM has decided to make The Hobbit as a trilogy rather than 2 films as originally planned.
I'll turn next to Time Inc.
As John will describe even though the environment for print magazines is very challenging Time Inc.
has been increasing its share by capitalizing on its scale its brands and the quality of its editorial.
At the same time we remain focused on continuing to evolve the model for digital magazines.
For instance during the quarter Time Inc.
struck a deal with Apple to enable sales of digital subscriptions on iOS devices.
Although it's still early so far over half of the subscribers to our digital editions have never subscribed to our titles before so that's a very encouraging sign.
Wrapping up it's been a very productive few months for us.
I'm excited about our progress.
And with each quarter that passes I'm even more confident about how we're positioning ourselves.
With that I'll hand it off to John.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
During my remarks I'll refer to a presentation that is now available on our website and the first slide shows the highlights.
The quarter shaped up pretty much as we had expected.
Year-over-year growth was held back by very challenging comparisons at Film and TV Entertainment as well as Publishing as well as substantial intersegment eliminations.
And while the second quarter's financial results were somewhat mixed we are seeing some healthy underlying trends which I will discuss.
And we had a pretty terrific quarter at the Networks group which posted its highest revenue and adjusted operating income ever for a  second quarter.
We were also able to maintain consolidated margins at about 18%.
That's a reflection of our continued focus on cost efficiency across the company so that's good.
Moving down the P&amp;L adjusted earnings per share was almost flat year-over-year despite the decline in adjusted operating income and that's primarily due to the benefit from our ongoing share repurchase program which is a significant part of our commitment to provide direct returns to shareholders.
And during the quarter we repurchased $565 million of our shares and we paid more than $250 million in dividends.
So that means during the first half of the year we've returned $1.8 billion to shareholders.
As we look out to the second half of the year we're in good shape to meet our financial objectives.
As a result we are reaffirming our full year outlook for low-double-digit growth in adjusted EPS.
Turning to the segment highlights and I'll begin at the Networks where healthy revenue and adjusted operating income growth were evidenced at both Turner and HBO and that's what's drove the record second quarter there.
Subscription revenues grew 6% and year-over-year growth accelerated from the past couple of quarters and that's despite a drag of about 100 basis points from FX.
Looking at advertising revenues were up 2% year-over-year.
Now there were a number of moving pieces here.
And as we've discussed with you in the past growth was hurt this quarter by the timing of NCAA games and Easter as well as the shift of management of our digital sports properties SI.com and Golf.com back to Time Inc.
Looking through these domestic growth was very similar to the 6% growth that we had in the first quarter and that was despite a decline at our news operations due to lower ratings.
International advertising revenues were down high-single digits in the quarter and growth here was hurt by the shutdown of Imagine in India as well as unfavorable foreign exchange movements.
Let me look ahead now to advertising revenue growth expectations for the rest of this year and I want to talk a little bit about Q3 versus Q4.
As of now we're currently not expecting to report positive growth in ad revenues in Q3 but we expect a much much stronger Q4.
And there's a number of different factors and let me just walk through each of those.
The first thing is please keep in mind that the internal shift of our digital sports properties and the 2 international closures at Turner Imagine which I just mentioned and TNT Turkey will weigh on ad growth overall for the next few quarters.
In addition in the third quarter scatter demand is a little slow right now and that's due to money being diverted to the Summer Olympics.
And the third quarter is also going to be affected by the timing of the Major League Baseball playoffs as well as our NASCAR lineup.
So we expect to have fewer Major League Baseball playoff games in the third quarter and due to the schedule there'll be more MLB playoff games in the fourth quarter.
That will help Q4 versus Q3.
And also we have the ALCS this year versus the NLCS which we had last year.
And historically the ALCS has rated higher than the NLCS.
We also expect growth to be stronger in the fourth quarter as we'll benefit from additional NBA games on TNT the 2012 presidential election expectations of improved overall ratings at our other networks in general some easier comparisons and the expectation of a much stronger scatter market once the Olympics are over.
Moving over to adjusted operating income where it was up a pretty strong 9% in the quarter at the Networks group with margins up around 100 basis points.
In addition to revenue growth the margin expansion reflected continued expense control.
Non-programming expenses were essentially flat year-over-year and programming expenses were up just 3% and that's despite increased investments in original programming.
So overall expenses were up low-single digits in the quarter.
And as we look ahead we anticipate that overall expense growth will remain under tight control.
While we'll continue to aggressively increase our investment in original programming we expect other components of our programming spending to rise more modestly and will continue to work hard to constrain growth in all non-programming expenses.
Before I move on let me just take a moment to discuss the recently announced shutdown of TNT's TV operations in Turkey.
This was a result of the same investment discipline that we demonstrated last quarter with respect to Imagine in India.
But together they accounted for approximately $160 million in charges on an unadjusted basis this quarter or $0.14 a share net of tax.
In each case when it became clear that we were not on a path to succeed we moved quickly to shut our operations to enable management to focus even more on our strongest properties.
And we've had great success in many international territories and we continue to expect international networks to be a key driver of our long-term growth.
Let me turn now to our Film and TV segment.
We knew coming into the second quarter that year-over-year comparisons here would be extremely challenging.
Last year's second quarter benefited from the theatrical release of The Hangover 2 and the home entertainment release of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1.
We also had 2 very successful video game title releases without comparable titles this year.
In addition 2 of this year's releases Rock of Ages and Dark Shadows performed well below our expectations.
Having said that we had a very strong quarter in our television business.
TV revenue was up more than 20% year-over-year to more than $1 billion and operating income was up double digits.
And that's the seventh time in the last 8 quarters where we had double-digit growth in TV.
So that continues to be a very very strong business for us and this quarter's results were driven by the cable syndication sale of The Mentalist and mid-teens growth in revenue from initial telecasts on broadcast and cable.
And as Jeff mentioned our future syndication pipeline got even stronger with the sales of 2 Broke Girls and Mike &amp; Molly.
We're also seeing strong demand from SVOD services and that's evidenced by recent new agreements with Netflix and Amazon Prime.
So we've now signed deals that bring in almost $250 million in revenue this year alone and we remain in active discussions with all major SVOD services about additional content packages.
All of that helped our backlog reach a record $5.9 billion this quarter.
Backlog as a reminder is the unrecognized cash licensing revenue for television and theatrical product that will be recognized in the future.
So given that we've reached record levels that obviously gives us great confidence about the long-term growth prospects for the TV business.
Looking ahead at Warner's to the second half of 2012 we're off to a really great start with the performance of Dark Knight Rises and we remain optimistic about the performance of our theatrical slate including releases such as Argo in October and The Hobbit in December.
It will also benefit from the continued strong theatrical performance of Magic Mike which recently crossed the $100 million market at the domestic box office.
Just keep in mind that in the third quarter of last year we had both the theatrical release of the final Harry Potter movie and the syndication of The Big Bang Theory.
So as we mentioned to you last quarter the profit comparisons are more difficult here at the studio in the third quarter versus the fourth.
We expect a very strong fourth quarter.
Moving over to Publishing where difficult industry conditions were joined by tough comparisons this quarter.
Last year's second quarter was the only quarter of the year where revenues were actually up and that was due in part to some strong special issues.
Operating income declined over 40% in the quarter as a 2% reduction expenses were not sufficient to offset the revenue declines.
And looking ahead the environment here remains challenging both in advertising and at the newsstand.
However as a result of additional cost measures that have already started to be implemented expenses should continue to decline year-over-year in both the third and fourth quarters and the comparisons also get easier here in the second half.
So we fully expect to see an improvement in adjusted operating income trends beginning in the third quarter.
Let me move on now to talk about free cash flow.
Year-to-date we generated about $520 million in free cash which is similar to the year-ago period as higher cash taxes and higher interest expenses were offset in part by lower working capital uses.
Let me provide a little bit more context around those figures.
As we've discussed with you before our conversion levels of OIBDA or operating income before depreciation and amortization into free cash flow last year and this year are somewhat below historical levels.
But we fully expect those conversion percentages to begin to increase next year.
And it's important to look at the key drivers.
Over the last few years our cash taxes have moved to become closer to what the book tax numbers represent and that's because we've utilized most of our tax attributes.
In addition cash interest costs have risen in part to fund our share repurchases.
Our working capital usage has also risen in the last few years.
But unlike cash taxes and interest costs this should reverse in time.
Most of the working capital usage has occurred at Warner Bros.
and it's tied to the timing of theatrical production spending and syndication availabilities.
For example in certain instances we have been funding the entire production of less than wholly owned films such as The Hobbit and the Pacific Rim and we recognized the initial sale of The Big Bang Theory in syndication.
As those films are released and as our syndication partners make cash payments over the life of the contract these working capital figures will turn around and the cash will flow back to us.
And as a result we expect our working capital needs to decline in future years and our conversion should improve.
So let me look at the final slide now which focuses on our net debt.
We ended the second quarter with a little less than $17.5 billion in net debt.
That's up about $1.4 billion compared to the end of last year.
And that's due to our continued returns to shareholders.
During the first half of the year we returned $1.8 billion which included around $1.3 billion in share repurchases.
Year-to-date we've also spent a little bit less than $300 million on M&amp;A activities.
This was primarily related to a transaction through which we've recently increased our stake in Central European Media Enterprises or CME to nearly 50%.
So to help maintain strong liquidity and balance sheet flexibility we also recently issued $1 billion in long-term debt and we were able to do that at very very attractive interest rates.
Our leverage ratio increased at the end of the quarter to around 2.6x which is essentially right in line with our long-term target of 2.5x.
So we remain pleased with the progress that we're making on our capital plan and our capital allocation so far this year.
And with that now let me turn the call back over to Doug and we can begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thanks.
Doug? All right.
Thanks John.
Donna let's get the Q&amp;A started.
[Operator Instructions].
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Michael Nathanson from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 quick ones Doug.
One is just following up on Jeff's comments on the double-digit affiliate growth at Turner is that on a contract-by-contract basis? Or are you seeing that's going to be the reported growth on the P&amp;L? So just a clarity on what you meant by that.
Michael it's John.
Let me take that.
The comment was meant to indicate that -- well just to take a half step back.
Jeff just wanted to remind everybody that our affiliate renewal rate cycle really is about to begin in force sometime mid-next year.
And so to try to clarify and provide a little bit more concreteness with respect to expectations from the beginning of the affiliate rate renewal cycle till the end of the affiliate rate renewal cycle which is the end of '16 our expectations are to achieve double-digit domestic affiliate revenue increases subscription revenue increases.
And so just to give you a sense if you look at the cable networks line which is Turner and HBO that the comments that Jeff made were specific to Turner.
So double-digit at Turner.
HBO continue to have expectations of rate going up mid-single digits.
As Jeff said hopefully we're going to get some unit increases there as well.
And then -- and just to give you a sense at Turner domestic affiliate revenues are about 80% of the total so 20% of that is international.
So hopefully that provides a little more clarity.
Research Division</strong> Okay cool.
And then the other is a follow-up question I'll be quick is just you gave us the $250 million of SVOD money this year.
Any sense of where that was last year? So what's the year-over-year change for you guys' SVOD money versus the $250 million this year? I don't know.
Yes I don't -- so the $250 million of this year is essentially a full year figure of those deals that we've already got inked.
So we'd be hopeful that that number is actually even going up from those levels but just wanted to at least give you a sense of where we were to date.
We booked year-to-date this year approximately $100 million of that and last year's full year figure for SVOD was less than $250 million somewhere around $225 million.
Those are the consolidated revenue figures for SVOD.
Those do not include the revenues recorded by the CW.
We expect revenues recorded by the CW to be somewhere around $80 million $85 million this year.
So just as a reminder we own 50% of that.
Our next question comes from Spencer Wang from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A 2-part question on cable networks one for Jeff and one for John.
First for Jeff you mentioned that the ratings softness at CNN and news I know there was some management changes that have been going on there.
Can you just talk a little bit about what the strategy is to reinvigorate ratings at CNN? And secondly for John in terms of the ad growth in the fourth quarter from an acceleration standpoint if you had high-single-digit CPM increases in the upfront plus the benefit from the NBA coming back is it possible that ad growth is double digits in the fourth quarter? Spencer I'll start with CNN.
I think as we all know it's a great brand.
It's got the biggest reach in the news category and it's very strong overseas.
The biggest reach is domestic.
And very strong in online.
Having said that obviously we're not satisfied with the ratings.
They do fluctuate with the news cycle but we're going to do a better job putting on programming that will hold viewers.
We've got more people coming.
They're not staying as long as we would like.
And so we think there's very strong demand.
If you ask where we're aiming how do we plan to do that: strong demand for objective comprehensive nonpartisan coverage really covering all the partisan views as well.
But we need to do it in a very compelling more engaging way than we've been doing of late.
And so that's really what we're going to focus on next.
Spence it's John.
So let me talk about fourth quarter.
I think I would say it's too early to tell right now.
And let me just give you a few of the things.
I mean I went through them in my proactive remarks.
We clearly expect to benefit from the strong upfront results that we had.
We're going to benefit from some of the sports timing shifts.
We expect to have improved ratings overall and we have some easier comparisons.
And all of that should really drive much much better advertising revenue growth.
Some things to just bear in mind from a reported standpoint though is just obviously we're in a situation now where FX translation is a headwind for us.
It was a couple hundred basis points of -- well is was actually for international it was about 500 basis points of negative growth there in the quarter.
And again that can be fairly volatile and move around so we don't know exactly where that's going to shake out.
And we also have the -- because of the shutdown in Turkey and Imagine that was -- in terms of advertising revenue that was about $30 million in the second half of last year that we're going have to comp against.
So that's -- again that's -- we don't have the ad revenues but we're going to have improved profitability by virtue of not having those networks operating.
So yes I think it's a little too early to predict with a certainty level of specificity but we feel much better about the advertising trends going into the fourth quarter and frankly as we progress into 2013.
Our next question comes from Michael Morris from Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up maybe a little more detail first of all on the double-digit outlook for your affiliate growth from 2014 and beyond.
Can you maybe split for us a little bit? You have historically talked about the profitability of the NCAA contract and so I'm assuming and we've analyzed this that most of those affiliate fee increases will come at TBS TNT and tru and that those could be in the mid- to high-teens range.
Can you help -- number one is that where those affiliate increases are primarily coming through? And second of all how does news factor in? I mean there is some concern given the ratings that maybe you're in a weaker position there as you go into those negotiations.
How do you view the potential for news affiliate fee increases? I'll start Mike.
The affiliate subscriber revenue increases will come across all the networks.
I think that the premise of what you were just saying about news isn't right.
I think there's tremendous upside on the news side.
We think because of the strength of all of our networks and the fact that we are the company that has more networks in the top 10 the top 40 than any other network company we don't really have any weak networks.
But that supports the ability of the networks to increase subscriber revenues the way that we've said.
On your specific point on the NCAA which is carried on the 3 networks TBS TNT and tru yes there's -- that will support pretty strong revenue increases on those and I think the -- what you were putting -- I don't want to really be too specific about it but the increase you were talking about is too low.
Our next question comes from Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just sticking on the Networks business.
John could you help us just size up HBO versus Turner? And you mentioned international and domestic but it seems like if the businesses are relatively similar in size on a subscription front if you get double digits on Turner you're going to be pretty close to double digits overall since international I think is a pretty nice growth story for you guys as well.
Maybe you're very high single sort of '14 '15 and '16.
I just wanted to see if you could give us a little more help on the base on that front.
I'm going to apologize in advance.
I think I've given you guys enough help and you can size the specific pieces of the business.
And just to repeat I mean we clearly expect affiliate fee growth domestically to be faster at Turner over time than HBO.
But HBO we would expect -- because of the characteristics that Jeff described a little bit earlier we would be hopeful and we would anticipate somewhat of an acceleration of subscription revenue growth there as well once we start seeing the full impact of the improvements that we've made to the service and we start getting some domestic uplift.
In terms of volume domestically and international on top of the rate increase.
Yes.
Remember HBO's international operations which in aggregate represent about the same percentage as Turner's it's about 20% of the revenues.
But it's a little bit different in the sense that a portion of HBO's less than wholly owned JVs are in their consolidated figures while a portion of them are accounted for below operating income but are in pretax income.
Suffice to say that the HBO international operations have been growing much more quickly than the domestic operations and we would anticipate that to continue as well.
Our next question comes from Doug Mitchelson from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A few questions as well.
The first sort of a clarification on the clarification.
So I just want to make sure on the language.
Between 2013 and 2016 really means 2014 '15 '16 we'd see double digit.
And as part of that what percentage of distribution do you already have sort of under your belt that gives you that kind of visibility on price? That's sort of the first area of questions.
Just from a -- I'll just take the mechanics of it.
The answer is yes to your question.
Our -- since the renewal cycle doesn't begin until next year our rates for next year are essentially locked from a pricing standpoint.
So it would mean '14 '15 and '16.
And we're not going to go into any detail as to percentage of who we've done deals with and so on and so forth.
We have an NDA surrounding all of those agreements.
Research Division</strong> And then second question on international given the shutdown of Turkey and previously India has your outlook for international profitability at Turner changed at all? And if you could remind us where 2011 came out for international EBIT and where you had said that would go over time that would be helpful.
You want to get that? Yes the numbers -- our outlook really hasn't changed all that much for a few reasons.
The first is we had anticipated coming into this year a pretty dramatic improvement in the results in each of India and Turkey.
And part of the reason why we made the decision that we did is it was pretty clear early on this year that we weren't going to be anywhere close to what we thought we could achieve.
The other thing which is weighing down again the reported figures is FX where we've definitely got a more negative situation in terms of currency translation as compared to what we had thought coming into the year.
In terms of international operations in general let me broaden it out and just repeat what we've said in the past because we still think we're very much on track.
Two years ago we had EBIT or operating income of about $500 million internationally in total in our networks.
Last year that grew to $650 million.
And we would anticipate that growing to about $1 billion by the end of '14 and we still feel like we're very much on track.
Our next question comes from Richard Greenfield from BTIG.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First Turner was -- has long been seen as kind of a visionary in getting out early in the cable network industry as it was kicking off.
And I was curious as you start to see YouTube evolving as a platform how do you think about staking out territory there? And how do you want to be positioned vis-à-vis YouTube? And then two on Google Fiber you're not currently participating.
Could you just discuss why you're not currently part of the channel package that they're offering? It would just seem to me that the array of virtual or over-the-top MVP -- D players that are coming to the market would improve your leverage with kind of the Comcasts and FiOSs of the world.
Why wouldn't you want to have more distributors over the course of the next 12 or 18 months? Okay.
Thanks Rich.
Let's start with YouTube.
I think that's a good premise you have.
We're paying very close attention to all the alternative platforms including YouTube.
And we've worked closely with YouTube mostly as a promotional vehicle.
If you look at most of our networks you're going to find a branded environment for our networks on YouTube.
And as YouTube shifts to offer more professionally produced content we'll look to use that to support our existing networks possibly to launch some new businesses.
But remember our existing content mostly exclusive content on Turner and HBO is available to all subscribers and viewers on demand on broadband already.
So we think it's great the extent to which those can have a presence on YouTube to drive viewership on our networks but that's basically how we look at it at this point.
And we're going to watch it closely.
And we're in pretty close communication with YouTube to try to understand how we can work together.
On Google's facilities-based service we're in pretty good discussions with them and are optimistic we'll be able to reach a deal.
We're very supportive of companies like in this case Google who is investing to make the infrastructure more robust.
And I think the one thing I would say about your question which we all ought to clarify it's really important to distinguish infrastructure consumer distribution more competition better quality more choice for consumers which Google Fiber does.
That is not over-the-top that's not virtual MSOs.
That -- those things don't provide quality they don't provide infrastructure they don't improve the consumer experience.
So we applaud Google for doing that.
We're going to continue to see which ways we can work with them.
And I think that you ought to be optimistic that we're going to see -- probably we're going to be able to help them and they'll be able to help us.
Our next question comes from Jessica Reif Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 topics.
One if you -- on the -- can you talk what the underlying Publishing advertising was if you pull out the addition of SI.com and Golf.com? And on Publishing in general I know you've been asked over the years why keep it.
And can you just give us your current thoughts on that? And then the second topic is the buyback slowed down a bit.
Is this the pace that we should expect in the second half? Okay.
I'll start with Publishing.
Publishing is a strong content business.
While the industry is having certainly headwinds in advertising and a little bit of softness during this recession now in readership it's not been on the readership side anything like what's happened in newspapers and things like that.
And so as you look at our Publishing titles which in most cases are gaining shares and as you look at those titles think of People In Style Real Simple Sports Illustrated becoming very vibrant on tablets with much more depth of articles and pictures moving pictures which means video it's way too reductive to just think that "Publishing has a constrained future." So we think it can grow again and we think that our publishing company can lead both the evolution and the share gains.
When you get to specific advertising questions I'm going to turn it over to John.
Yes sure.
Thanks for the question Jessica.
So let me be a little bit more clear.
Second quarter reported ad revenue declined at Time Inc.
7%.
The impact of the transfer of SI.com Golf.com was about 200 basis points of improvement to Time Inc.'s reported ad growth.
So it otherwise would've been down 9%.
And that was largely driven by around 8% domestic magazine advertising declines which were pretty broad based.
International declined about 4% and digital was essentially flat for the quarter.
So looking into the third quarter we're seeing fairly consistent advertising trends maybe a little bit of improved results digital so far.
And we're hoping to get some better results from our non-magazine properties which were also down in Q2.
On cap -- you had a capital question? Yes on the buyback we -- year-to-date our pace through the first half of the year is probably a good indication of what we're likely to do for the rest of this year because we're really being governed now largely by a combination of earnings growth free cash flow generation all within the construct of our balance sheet management and we're right sitting on top of our long-term target ratio of net debt to EBITDA of about 2.5x.
Our next question comes from Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
One you mentioned the scatter slowing a bit in the third quarter.
I guess can you give us any color about how significant that slowdown is? And is it consistent with what you've seen in the past Olympics? And then just a second question sort of clarifying your comments on the international outlook or the headwind.
I think in the second quarter you said that Imagine generated about $30 million ad revenues a year.
Is Turkey notable as well? Or is that included in the $30 million revenue? The question on third quarter scatter and the impact of the Olympics it's really hard if not impossible to exactly tell what the impact of the Olympics is.
Although based on us being in the market we will tell you that we have every reason to believe that it's been quite material in the third quarter.
And we would anticipate that those dollars would be redirected in the fourth quarter.
And right now our view which is optimistic but we think realistic is that fourth quarter scatter could be quite strong.
And then on your second question on international could you just repeat it quickly because I just want to make sure that I don't quote a wrong number.
Well I think she was asking -- she said that the Imagine impact was $30 million.
How big is the Turkey impact? Oh okay.
So look -- I mean in Q3 the combined impact for advertising is roughly $10 million $11 million.
Q4 is almost $20 million.
Like I said it's about -- full year is $60 million all-in and that's just ad revenue.
Look it's 100 to 200 basis points a quarter is the way to think about it.
Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> For both assets? Correct yes.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Marci Ryvicker from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First it feels like you don't get much credit from investors for your TV studio performance given that it's combined with film.
I know you break it out in your comments but any thoughts about separating these into 2 distinct financial divisions so as to maybe unlock some of this value at least in the eyes of investors? And then the second question is on Netflix.
They did make some interesting comments about potentially partnering with HBO.
I wouldn't expect this to be a near-term thing but would this be a consideration at all in the future? Okay TV production you're right to say that the TV production business is a very attractive and strong business for Time Warner and Warner Bros.
We don't at this point think that it really makes sense to separate it and fragment reporting further than we already do.
We have said we've made the TV production earnings and so forth very clear for years now.
And it's a key part of why we're so consistent at Warner why our cash flow performance is so good in relation to earnings and why we have such visibility in the studio business having strong earnings predictability going forward.
And we do encourage which I think is in your question for everybody to always focus and think hard about the TV business when they -- and add to that the scale and the tent-pole strategy in our film business which also allows us to be more stable really to have consistently superior performance on earnings and cash flow than the other studios with whom we compete.
On the Netflix side look we -- the press particularly goes running gets very amplifying on anything we've said about Netflix.
We've tried to be very constructive and stable over the last 3 years saying that we thought there was a good role for subscription video-on-demand.
We've always said because this company invented subscription video-on-demand it's called HBO and HBO was the first one to go on-demand both on televisions and now it's widely available on broadband HBO.
And it's doing really well.
And I think Reed Hastings has been very complimentary at certain times about how -- the high regard they have for HBO.
And I think we've been complimentary of them in terms of the great work they've done in both the strength of the interface that they've created and the fact that we've proved that people love on-demand programming.
That's been the point we've been trying to make to everyone not just about HBO GO but about TNT go CNN on-demand and so forth.
And so given the -- all of that there are not talks going on now between HBO and Netflix because they certainly -- just like all subscription VOD services HBO Showtime Netflix Amazon Prime they all compete.
And that's probably the primary way that they have a relationship is as competitors.
But as you know in the television and media business sometimes there are ways for other relationships to emerge over time.
Not now but we'll see in the future.
Our next question comes from Jason Bazinet from Citi Investment.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just had a question on HBO GO.
Wondering if you could just sort of help us think about how to potentially size the upside to the subscribers if this works? Is it reasonable to assume over the course of history that sort of HBO subs have been flat to nominally growing and churn has sort of run in that 4% to 5% range per month? Is that sort of a reasonable proxy? Yes that has been the general state of subscription services.
If you're asking what's the upside from this which I think you're right to ask about we're very pleased with the user data and the satisfaction levels because if the subscribers really value something we've seen this with multiplex and video-on-demand now HBO GO on broadband what will happen is the subscription levels will go up because either churn will moderate you'll get more people using it because it's more useful for them they can be more engaged with the programming.
Let me give you a few examples of that.
Registered accounts for HBO GO are up 50% since the end of 2011.
Monthly plays have increased over 150% and average monthly usage of the service and HBO programming is increasing.
It's really a function of the device rollout particularly the Xbox 360 which just came on but we think all devices will be hooked up to it in a way that's easier for people to use.
So while it's a little early to discern the impact all those things are positive.
They lead to more engagement and utility for a viewer therefore they keep the service.
And that's not just in the United States.
We've now got that rolling out in all the HBO overseas territories.
And I think as we have noted we also have -- we're selling HBO programming and it does really well in 200 countries where there is no HBO service.
So the opportunities for HBO there to sell either maybe an unauthenticated broadband-delivered VOD service remain as upside.
Our next question comes from Anthony DiClemente from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on that last comment.
Jeff I'm wondering if there's any catalyst for an unauthenticated distribution of HBO GO here in the United States? I guess in the quarter these online fan campaigns have begun to pop up HBO fans asking for HBO GO as a stand-alone service.
It sounds like this is -- HBO GO is in some ways a victim of its own success.
And that's why your customers according to these campaigns really want HBO GO stand-alone.
They say they'd be willing to pay a lot for it as a stand-alone service.
I'm just wondering if you can give us an update on how Bill Nelson and his team are thinking about that? Yes.
Well we as you of course imagine we know all of that.
And we have the ability to do it.
And we will do that if we thought it was in our economic best interest.
But right now we don't think that it is.
We have a very good relationship with our distributors.
They're in the midst of making HBO GO available in an easy seamless high-quality way which everybody forgets.
The broadband infrastructure would have a little difficulty doing that in a consistent way that brings the quality that HBO requires.
So right now the other thing -- I think the mistake everybody makes when they think about that is that there aren't that many homes with broadband and no multichannel TV.
So the issue really is it's not that people want to knock out multichannel TV and have HBO.
Most -- it's a question that -- most people have multichannel TV and there's tens of millions of homes with multichannel TV and they will keep multichannel TV and they aren't currently subscribing to HBO.
That's the opportunity.
And that gets into a question of -- all those people are hooked up to our distributors and it's a question of how to have that distribution plans market HBO in a more attractive way.
So it's easier for people to hook up and they don't have to for example buy things that perhaps they don't want to buy.
But the whole idea that there's a lot of people out there that want to drop multichannel TV and just have a Netflix or an HBO that's not right.
Look for the data you won't find them.
Anthony do you have a follow-up? We lost you.
Our last question comes from John Janedis from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Jeff you mentioned the Cartoon Network and Nick in your prepared remarks.
Can you talk about what you saw in the kids upfront? And have you made any changes at Cartoon in an effort to drive share this year? Yes we had solid prices in the kids upfront.
We're able to take advantage of our ratings growth.
News pricing was continuing to trend up in contrast but the volume was much lighter.
So we think that the success of Cartoon lately and let's not forget the tremendous success of Adult Swim which is on the channel at night that Cartoon occupies is a really strong driver for us of advertising.
And as -- to get back to the affiliate revenue side we basically have tremendous upside in the subscriber revenue side of Cartoon Network and Adult Swim.
Okay and with that I think we'll cut it off.
And thanks everybody for listening in.
Welcome to the Time Warner Inc.
Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Dawn and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Doug Shapiro Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for Time Warner.
Please proceed.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
This morning we issued 2 press releases one detailing our results for the third quarter and the other reaffirming our 2012 business outlook.
Before we begin there are 2 items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our site.
And second today's announcement include certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Thanks.
And with that let me turn it over to Jeff.
Thanks Doug and thanks for listening in this morning.
Overall this was another successful quarter for us.
As you all know we face difficult comparisons at Warner Bros.
this quarter.
But in light of that I was pleased with our performance.
With one quarter left to go we're on track for another very strong year.
To me the headline this quarter was the continued financial and operational strength at our Networks businesses.
Our investments in content and technology over the last few years are clearly paying off and we expect they'll keep paying off in 2013 and beyond.
John will walk through the financial results in a few minutes but before that I'll share with you some of the key operational highlights from the quarter.
I'd like to start with Turner where we're continuing to see good momentum across most of our Networks.
This year TBS is the #1 network on cable for adults 18 to 34 and it's the #2 network for adults 18 to 49.
We posted another great quarter up 35% in prime time in that demo.
The Big Bang Theory was again the #1 syndicated comedy on cable this quarter and that's creating a great platform to launch new shows like Sullivan &amp; Son and Men at Work and it's lifting the rest of the schedule.
Our Tyler Perry-produced comedies were up double digits this quarter and Conan is the #1 hour-long talk show in late-night among young adults this year.
We intend to capitalize on our position in coming months as we launch several new originals.
We're particularly excited about Cougar Town which debuts in January.
Last month we announced a new contract with Major League Baseball that provides us TV and expanded digital rights through 2021.
Baseball is a marquee property with a long history on TBS.
And the post-season games we air are marquee programming for baseball fans and must-have programming for our affiliates.
Along with our NBA and NCAA rights keeping baseball on TBS into the next decade helps position us very well for our upcoming affiliate renewal cycle.
We also saw a continued improvement at TNT this quarter highlighted by our originals.
New shows like Major Crimes Perception and Dallas were among the top 5 new series on cable this quarter while The Closer Rizzoli &amp; Isles and Major Crimes were the top 3 series on all of cable.
Typically we don't program original series against the launch of the broadcast season in September and October.
However we're excited about the line up over the next few months which should provide a nice boost to TNT's ratings.
We're thrilled to have the NBA back on TNT after the delayed start that occurred for the season last year.
And later this month we'll also bring back originals like Rizzoli &amp; Isles and Leverage.
We'll build on this momentum heading into the first quarter where we'll have more originals on TNT than ever before double the number of episodes that we had during the first quarter of 2012.
We're also seeing continued strong performance for most of our other Networks.
truTV just completed its best third quarter ever and Adult Swim once again finished the quarter as the #1 network among young adults on all of cable.
One area of challenge remains CNN.
Its ratings have improved in recent months due to its distinguished election coverage.
And with unmatched global newsgathering capabilities CNN continues to be the preferred destination for breaking news.
That was evident just last week when CNN more than doubled its audience during its coverage of the hurricane while its competitors were only up modestly or they declined.
But CNN can do a better job of attracting and retaining audience when news isn't breaking.
As you know we're actively searching for a new leader there and I expect we'll be able to announce that hire by the end of the year.
Now I'd shift to our other network business HBO which continues to perform at the top of its game.
Our big tentpole shows are generating great numbers.
Game of Thrones surged to almost 12 million viewers per episode in the second season.
True Blood just finished its fifth season also with 12 million viewers an episode.
Boardwalk Empire is pulling in 8 million per episode so far this season and The Newsroom ended its first season with over 7 million average viewers.
Underscoring the volume of top-quality shows on the network HBO won 23 Emmy Awards this year.
That's more than any other network for the 11th year in a row.
In August we extended our studio output deal with Fox under what we consider very attractive terms for both of us.
That helps guarantee HBO's exclusive access to a critical mass of the best Hollywood movies well into the next decade thanks in large part to the strength of our programming the consumer appeal of HBO and MAX GO and greater support from many of our affiliates.
Right now we're seeing the best domestic subscriber trends at HBO that we've seen in years.
We're posting even faster growth internationally with HBO subs up about 30% so far this year and we're rolling out new Networks as well.
Earlier this year we launched HBO Netherlands which is off to a solid start.
Later this year we will launch HBO Nordic which includes a linear service and our first direct-to-consumer over-the-top HBO offering.
And soon HBO will debut the first premium network in India.
All the progress we're seeing in our Networks businesses is really the fruit of investments that we've been making for the last few years investments in content in technology and investments in our international Networks.
And as a result we've been able to accomplish a lot this year while also closely managing our expense growth.
In fact so far this year overall operating expenses at our Networks are up only 2%.
I'm not saying we're going to be able to hold expense growth that low every year but this year's performance reinforces our confidence that we'll be able to drive margins higher over time.
I'll shift to Warner Bros.
starting with our TV studio.
WBTV is off to a terrific start this broadcast season.
Our returning comedies continue to dominate with The Big Bang Theory Two and a Half Men Two Broke Girls and Mike &amp; Molly making up 4 of the top 5 comedies on TV.
Among our new shows Revolution is a breakout hit it's the #1 new show on TV 18 to 49 and Arrow posted the best debut of any show on The CW in 3 years.
As we've talked about with you before Warner Bros.
TV benefits from a powerful virtuous circle.
Being the leading independent supplier to all the broadcast Networks makes us the preferred home to the top writers and producers on TV which in turn makes us indispensable to those Networks.
Consider this season.
WBTV produces the #1 show on television in 18 to 49 on Monday Tuesday and Thursday nights.
In fact we produce the #1 the #2 and the #3 shows on television on Monday nights.
And while many have taken note of NBC's strong performance so far this season the untold story is that the top 2 non-sports shows on NBC The Voice and Revolution are Warner productions.
On our theatrical business the key highlight this quarter was the fantastic performance of The Dark Knight Rises which pulled in over $1 billion at the global box office surpassing The Dark Knight.
We're off to a great start in the fourth quarter with Argo.
Based on its critical acclaim A+ cinema score and excellent word-of-mouth we expect it to have a long run in the theaters.
And of course we have high expectations for The Hobbit which will premiere next month.
And last I'll touch on Publishing.
Time Inc.
is clearly operating on a challenging environment but we're staying focused on extending our industry leading share tightly managing our cost base and of course maintaining the outstanding quality of our editorial.
At the same time we're positioning the business to grow as it continues to transition to digital.
We are leveraging Time Inc.'s core strengths unmatched scale a wealth of consumer data and world-class brands to develop new consumer products and new solutions for advertisers.
So all in all it was another really productive quarter for us and another indication that the plan we put in place 5 years ago is working.
Over that time we've successfully focused on our content businesses improved our operating efficiency reallocated those dollars into content technology and international investments and we've actively managed our balance sheet in a way that's improved shareholder returns.
We'll never be satisfied or complacent about this progress but I'm very pleased with the progress we have made and very confident about how we were positioned.
With that I'll hand it off to John.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
During my remarks I will refer to a presentation that is now available on our website.
And the first slide shows the highlights for the quarter.
As Jeff mentioned we knew coming into the year that we'd have very difficult comparisons in the third quarter.
And that's because last year our Film and TV Entertainment segment posted its highest quarterly profits in its history.
So in light of that we're pleased with our results this quarter and we feel really great about how we're positioned going into both the fourth quarter as well as into 2013.
We continue to see healthy underlying trends across most of our businesses and we had a really really stand-out quarter at the Networks group which grew adjusted operating income 12% to post its highest profits ever.
We were also able to keep consolidated margins for the quarter steady year-over-year at 23%.
In fact margins were actually up about 40 basis points and that's despite a decline in revenues.
That was a result of a $200 million year-over-year decline in expenses this quarter which is evidence of our continued focus on improving our operating efficiency.
Also keep in mind that FX was a drag on revenue of nearly 200 basis points and on adjusted operating income of nearly 350 basis points.
So the negative impact of FX took us from otherwise being up in the quarter to being down in the quarter from an adjusted operating income perspective.
Continuing to move down the P&amp;L adjusted EPS was up 9% year-over-year and that's despite the modest decline in adjusted operating income.
And that was primarily due to the benefit from our ongoing share repurchase program as well as a lower effective tax rate.
Since we last reported we've repurchased almost $870 million of our shares and we paid over $250 million in dividends.
So year-to-date we've deployed about $3.1 billion in dividends and share repurchases underscoring our commitment to provide ongoing returns to shareholders.
So we're on track to meet our financial objectives for the year and this morning we've reaffirmed our full year outlook for low double-digit growth in adjusted EPS.
And given our year-to-date performance that implies that we're going to end the year on a strong note.
And in fact we expect the fourth quarter to be by far our strongest of the year in terms of growth in both adjusted operating income and adjusted net income.
Now let me turn to the segment highlights and I'm going to begin with the Networks group where we had significant margin expansion year-over-year which drove double-digit adjusted operating income growth at both HBO and Turner and record profits for the group in the quarter.
Subscription revenues were up 7% and that's despite a drag of about 100 basis points from currency.
The increase reflects both higher pricing domestically and international growth trends that we anticipate will continue moving forward.
And as Jeff mentioned we're also benefiting from domestic subscriber growth at HBO so we feel good about the trajectory of subscription revenue and that's before we see the expected benefit from our upcoming domestic renewal cycle at Turner which will begin to kick in 2014.
Moving over to Advertising.
In total for the quarter it was about flat.
Domestic ad revenue was up modestly year-over-year and domestic growth was hurt by the timing of the Major League Baseball playoffs and our NASCAR line-up as well as changes to Turner's digital portfolio.
Looking through these domestic growth was in the mid-single digits up year-over-year.
International Advertising revenues were down mid-teens in the quarter but that was impacted by the previous quarter's shutdowns of Imagine and TNT in Turkey.
And if it weren't for those shutdowns as well as FX movements Advertising revenue internationally would have been down low-single digits.
And that's really primarily due to the ongoing economic challenges in Europe.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter domestic scatter appears steady with pricing up in the mid-single digits over the strong upfront.
Given the improved programming line-up including the NBA we expect that will translate into mid to high single-digit growth in domestic Advertising.
Outside the U.S.
we expect to experience a continued impact of the international shutdowns I just mentioned as well as negative foreign currency movements.
So we anticipate that international Advertising will likely be down again in the fourth quarter.
Moving on adjusted operating income as I mentioned earlier was up a very very strong 12% in the quarter and margins were up nearly 250 basis points reflecting continued strong cost controls as well as timing of programming and marketing spending.
Overall expenses were flat in the quarter and they're up only 2% on a year-to-date basis at the Networks segment.
And that's despite increased investments in original programming and as Jeff mentioned that underscores our confidence in our ability to both aggressively invest in programming as well as expand margins over time.
Taking that all into account our Networks businesses remain well on track to grow adjusted operating income faster this year than we were able to do in 2011.
Turning now to film and TV where as I mentioned we had very tough comparisons.
Last year's third quarter was Warner's highest profit quarter ever.
And it benefited from the theatrical release of the final Harry Potter movie as well as the syndication of The Big Bang Theory and Friends.
These comparisons masked a couple of very bright spots for us in the quarter.
The Dark Knight Rises was an absolute blockbuster.
It generated in excess of $1 billion at the global box office and in addition this quarter we recognized over $100 million in SVOD revenue primarily from deals with Netflix and Amazon Prime.
And that means that on a year-to-date basis signed SVOD deals have now risen to be more than $250 million of revenue this year.
Despite the decline at our TV businesses this quarter due to the tough comparisons that I mentioned previously we feel very very good about the underlying trends here and we're seeing some very promising performances from several of our new and returning shows.
As a further reflection of the health of the business our backlog reached a record $6 billion this quarter.
So to provide some context here that's up over 50% over the past 5 years.
And backlog as a reminder is cash licensing revenue for television and theatrical product that will be recognized at some point in the future.
Looking to the fourth quarter we're off to a terrific start with the performance of Argo and we're very optimistic about the theatrical release of The Hobbit next month and we're also excited about the home video release of The Dark Knight Rises and 2 LEGO-branded video games.
So we expect Warner is to have a very strong fourth quarter.
And in thinking about the full year we continue to expect to be down only modestly at Warner's versus the prior year despite comping against a record year as I mentioned before that included a Harry Potter movie 2 Harry Potter home videos and the syndication of Big Bang.
So we expect this year will end up being the second-highest year in profits in the history of Warner Bros.
So another very strong year.
Let me move over to Publishing where we continue to see very tough environment.
Advertising revenues declined 5% in the quarter and that reflected declines both domestically as well as internationally.
Subscription revenues fell as we continue to see softness in newsstand sales.
And despite the lower revenues adjusted operating income actually came in a little higher in the quarter up 2% and that was a function of both aggressive cost controls as well as expense savings resulting from the sale of QSP earlier this year.
Looking ahead expenses should continue to decline year-over-year in the fourth quarter as we remain focused on tightly managing costs at this division but the revenue environment remains challenged.
And the absence of QSP will be a drag given the seasonality of what that business was.
So unlike this quarter in the third quarter we anticipate the fourth quarter -- we don't think that expected cost savings will be sufficient to offset revenue declines at the Publishing unit.
Let me continue to move forward to the next slide which highlights free cash flow.
We had very very strong quarter of free cash flow generation.
We've generated now about $2 billion of free cash flow on a year-to-date basis with a vast majority of that coming in the third quarter and that's up from a year ago due in large part to lower working capital requirements.
And that growth came despite an increase in cash taxes this year.
So the decline in working capital is largely a result of the timing of event film reduction as well as higher reimbursements for co-financed productions.
So with our performance through the third quarter we're on track for another very strong year in terms of free cash flow generation in 2012.
Let me continue now to the next slide which is the net debt reconciliation.
It's our last slide.
We ended the third quarter with about $16.7 billion in net debt and a leverage ratio of 2.5x which is right in line with our target.
As I mentioned earlier we've deployed about $3.1 billion in dividends and buybacks this year and that includes $2.3 billion in share repurchases.
It also may be worth mentioning that the other line on this schedule consists primarily of stock option proceeds and that's tied to the strong performance of our stock this year.
Year-to-date we've also spent about $575 million on M&amp;A activity.
And in the third quarter this activity related primarily to our acquisition of Bleacher Report which is a leading sports digital property and Alloy Entertainment which is a leading source of IP for TV and web series.
These acquisitions are consistent with our track record of tuck-in acquisitions that support our faster growth and our higher return businesses.
So with only one quarter left to go in the year we're quite pleased with the progress that we're continuing to make on our capital plan.
And with that I'll turn the call back to Doug and we'll start the Q&amp;A portion.
Thank you.
All right.
Thanks John.
So Dawn we'd like to get the Q&amp;A started.
[Operator Instructions] Thanks.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two questions Jeff.
On HBO you mentioned you're having some of the best subscriber result in a long time.
I'm wondering if you could talk about the revenue outlook for that business at least qualitatively as well.
And in that context how you're thinking about a dollar of investment on originals versus movie output? You mentioned the Fox deal.
It certainly seems like original programming is really driving that business now.
So I'm wondering how you think about maybe rebalancing that over time? And John just quickly on The Hobbit.
It's a unique relationship with MGM.
Anything we should be considering on working cap or P&amp;A as this is a late quarter release.
Just any comment that we might need to help us would be great otherwise.
Thank you.
HBO will see revenue on the programming.
The revenue growth has been very steady as you know and the fact that the subscriber grows domestically picking back up and internationally increasing nicely and pretty significant increase in international sub revenue is really helpful for us in terms not just earnings and growth of earnings but also investment in programming for then further strength of the Subscription service and then further revenues for both electronic sale and international sale of the program.
So we're continuously investing.
As we said in the prepared remarks we've got a bigger slate of originals with more success more hits and more audience for the originals than we've ever had before.
We've got really strong growth in demand for our originals from our growing overseas HBO network.
And in other countries from other Networks that really like the quality of HBO programming travels very well.
So it's a very strong model in terms of revenue growth and in terms of investment in programming.
What we're going to do in terms of balancing original versus other kinds of programming is something we're thinking about.
There is a pretty strong utility for movies in the right mix or HBO being so many Networks that are 24 hours a day.
Having said that we've got more flexibility in how we judge the balance of movie programming on HBO and Cinemax and original programming than we had before and so we basically are very happy with the trends at HBO both on the revenue side on the strength of the brand and on the programming side.
And I would just finish by saying we ought to think about HBO GO Cinemax GO which are not only here in the United States and increasingly being seen by subscribers of things that are easy to use and they're getting used to using them but they've now launched the on-demand product over most of the HBO network footprint around the world.
So things are just going extremely well in our HBO business.
So Ben let me address your question on The Hobbit and then I'll come back and maybe make a comment or 2 about overall Warner Bros.
fourth quarter expectations where we do expect a very very strong quarter from Warner's in Q4.
So if you look at The Hobbit let's talk cash versus P&amp;L.
On the cash I think we've mentioned this before we've been essentially financing the entire production cost of all 3 of the movies and we have an arrangement whereby we'll recoup the portion of the financing that isn't attributable to us over time and we'll do that including -- with a financing element in there with the cost of money element in there too.
And we have the distribution rights for The Hobbit.
So from a cash standpoint a lot of the cash has already been spent which is one of the reasons why we've had some working capital spikes from a usage standpoint.
We've said that that will turn around over time and it's one of the reasons why we're not worried about increasing capital intensity in the businesses particularly at studio.
If you think about the P&amp;L when you have these late-in-the-year releases you are bearing a significant portion of the P&amp;A associated with those.
And a lot of the benefits from the release and the movies will come in over time.
So a lot of the benefits from the first Hobbit release will be -- will actually be realized in 2013 and then beyond.
To put it in perspective each of The Lord of the Rings movies did at least $1 billion at the box office.
We anticipated that this is going to be a blockbuster release and we were very optimistic for it.
Fourth quarter in general we think will benefit from The Hobbit although as I mentioned more of the benefit will come in over time.
But we also have the strong results of Argo we've got The Dark Knight DVD we probably will have lower P&amp;A on fewer releases coming out of the studio and we expect a very strong quarter from our Home Entertainment Group as we expect higher margin mix of product.
Our next question comes from Michael Nathanson from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I have one for Jeff and one for John.
Jeff just going back to comments you made the last quarter on your affiliate fee expectations I wonder if you could talk a bit about how you could use HBO or may not use HBO to negotiate concurrently with Turner.
Is that something you're thinking about? And do you have the overlap in the cycle to do that? Yes well as you can imagine we don't really want to discuss our negotiating tactics and strategy with all 300 of you but I think it's a good question.
And please remember and we did say this that Turner on a standalone basis is one of the largest cable network groups just by itself.
And of course I think as your question implies if you have Turner and HBO combined we're the biggest cable network group in the world.
So you can imagine that that does give us some alternatives I guess.
So we of course we need to gather continuously to figure out how to best serve our affiliates and make sure that the value of our Networks are recognized and to bring the right scale and the right flexibility to each of the affiliate negotiations.
They're not all exactly the same situation and we try to organize ourselves appropriately for everybody's benefit including ours.
There might be another question for John? Research Division</strong> Yes John we had assumed this year I think based on your comments that programming expense of networks will be up mid- to high-single digits.
Given your trend so far first 3 quarters do you still feel that's a good range or maybe the lower end of the range is more appropriate? I think the lower end of the range is more appropriate for this year.
And thanks for the question.
Look we said coming into the year a lot of people were asking questions about expense growth overall programming expense growth.
In particular if you look at the margin enhancement that we had in Q3 and I would suggest that Q4 will probably look similar we grew margins in a big way at each of HBO and Turner during the quarter.
And we'll do so again next quarter.
But as we always mentioned to you quarters in any particular quarter things can move around and change.
But when you look at annual cycles which is how we plan and run the businesses we expect the margins for the Networks group this year in 2012 will be up versus last year.
And we would anticipate those types of trends continuing in the future.
And I would suggest that we are investing fully in the programming of these Networks.
We have huge scale programming budgets which we think is an advantage versus the competition and we have a lot of elements of our programming line-up that have very modest growth elements included in them.
So when you look at the overall average growing in the mid-single-digit range that does include a meaningful increase in investment in original programming and we would expect continued ability to have tight cost controls going forward.
We have John Janedis from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Jeff with new MLB deal and what seemed to be some fairly healthy step-ups in sports rights broadly on renewed contracts can you talk about your view on sports rights going forward at Turner and whether you feel a need to possibly stretch for maybe another franchise if it were to become available? Yes okay.
Look we think we're in very good position with the sports rights we have now.
And the NCAA deal that we did has been a very successful deal in terms of viewership in terms of Advertising recovery and we fully anticipate and we've had some experience to support this that it's going to hold up very well in terms of our affiliate pricing moves.
We are well positioned for -- to deal with the renewal of the sports that we already carry including NBA and so as we think about other things and I assume you're asking about potential other decisions like NFL packages and so forth it's a little speculative to talk about that.
We don't need such a thing but it's not to say that depending what the package would be so it might not be something that we could bring an economic advantage for.
Sports can be a very important part of the offering in Turner.
We just need to have the right ones and we take out a very -- we think well-balanced arrangement between the sports the originals and the acquired programming.
But if the -- if an NFL package came up and I think they're considering how they want to handle that just like the NCAA we would consider it but we'd only do something of that size if we were confident that we could monetize it and have it improve our economics.
So I know that's a theoretical answer but it's at this point not clear what the choices are.
Our next question comes from Jessica Reif-Cohen from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess one for Jeff and one for John.
Jeff as the largest TV producer in one of the largest cable network groups I mean you're obviously in a position of leadership in the television industry.
And I'm just curious on your view of this current season's ratings volatility which will only be exacerbated by the rollout of TV Everywhere.
This lack of appointment in just watching on different devices at different times how does it affect your different businesses? And what do you think the TV industry will do about it? We see the general trends is good but let me say why that is.
I know there's been a lot of concern about the early broadcast ratings and as you know we have a very strong supplier relationship 25 shows across all the broadcast Networks.
We're the only one to have not only one show in every Network but 2.
Our shows are doing great.
Some of the biggest hits are from Warner Bros.
But it's only been a few weeks and broadcast audit last year are very strong.
Cable ratings because we had to look at all sides of this have been stable and there's a lot of viewing particularly on cable that's happening on the VOD side that's getting added to the consumer loyalty and engagement with the shows and with the Networks.
So some of the pressure on broadcast ratings is clearly coming from viewing on alternative platforms.
And while it isn't being measured as well as it will be soon I think what you'll see eventually because VOD does this whether it's VOD on your television through your cable or telco operator whether it's VOD that you're using for HBO GO or TV Everywhere it increases viewership.
It increases the value of hit shows.
It increases the value of Advertising if you put the Advertising into the right format.
So from a Network point of view these are good trends for us.
From the point of view of Warner as the lead supplier we think it's fine.
And bear in mind we have a growing business in making shows at Warner for cable Networks and even increasingly for Internet to view as well.
I have Tuna Amobi from S&amp;P Capital IQ.
I have one question for John and one for Jeff.
So John it would appear to me that the pace of your share buyback program accelerated after the end of the quarter and -- but even if that's the case it also appears that between buybacks and dividends you are significantly running behind the last year's pace even as your free cash flow for this year is significantly up.
So I'm wondering how much of that is kind of a deliberate policy to slow down your buybacks and potentially now that we have certainty on the presidential elections how this could skew your capital return program potentially on the dividends by next year.
If you can give us physically some peek into your program for next year that would be helpful.
And I have a question for Jeff.
Thanks Tuna.
Thanks for the question.
Look I think our capital program and our capital plan has been very very consistent now for a long time.
And we have no intention of straying away from that.
Last year you made a comment that the pace of the buyback this year was behind last year's pace.
I'd ask you to remember last year we were in the process of increasing leverage on the balance sheet to try to get to the long-term leverage target of 2.5x.
We achieved that and now for the foreseeable future we're using that 2.5x leverage as a guide post in figuring out how we're going to deploy capital.
I would also say because you said it looks like this pace of the buyback sped up a little bit recently I would acknowledge that to be true.
I think as I mentioned on my proactive comments we've seen a significant amount of cash proceeds coming in from stock option exercises.
So that's given us some excess capacity to deploy and we still view the stock as being extremely attractive at current levels.
And we've been trying to deploy the capital in a way where it's sensitive to shareholder returns and it's staying within the constraints of our 2.5x leverage target.
So I think going forward that's probably the best benchmark to look to in terms of determining what we're going to do.
Okay that's helpful.
So here's the question for Jeff and maybe John you can also chime in.
As I look at the home video and electronics delivery revenues it appears that there's a secular bifurcation for lack of a better word between those 2 categories.
Presumably some of that has to do with the discrepancy in Netflix revenues between film and television.
But even if you strip out Netflix I'm trying to understand perhaps if there is indeed a secular bifurcation there and what might be attributable to that Jeff in the context of some of the initiatives you're pursuing whether it's UltraViolet or TV Everywhere.
Tuna do you mind clarifying you were asking in the home video business this is physical electronic sell-through SVOD et cetera whether there's a bifurcation between what and what.
Between film the theatrical and the television product? Film and TV.
Boy we're all thinking about it because we obviously didn't think there was such a thing.
Film is the biggest category.
It's been interesting and you had essentially a little stabilization in the overall home video business.
The electronic sell-through side has started -- and SVOD side has started to do a little better.
To your point on television -- no no let me finish film.
So film's done a little better.
There's been a bit of a shift or let's say growing strength in the alternative electronic sales aspects of film whether it be SVOD or just the FT a little bit of help in Blu-ray as well on the physical side.
But if you then ask if this is your question whether television products series product has done a little well in home video and particularly VOD yes it has.
That's probably because -- so TV series products has held up better.
And that's because probably in fact it is because there's been more sale of series per VOD consumption to the subscription services like Netflix and Amazon and Hulu Plus than there was previously.
And that is something that as we've talked about on these calls for several quarters we all expected that to happen.
It's a more natural place for basically a syndication window television product to go to subscriptions VOD services.
And those are less rational places for kind of first-run films to go.
The only thing I would add Tuna is if you were asking us the question specific to Warner's versus the industry I would just add that in any particular quarter those categories can move around quite a bit and that's really nothing to do with secular.
That's just availability of product.
Our next question comes from David Bank from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions for anybody that wants to answer them.
The first one is on the share count.
Sort of despite the big numbers I think you put up in terms of the money you spent buying back stock it looks like the average diluted share count is kind of flattish sequentially versus the prior quarter.
So I'm wondering what -- can you help explain what's going on there? And what the trends would look like going forward? And the second question is could you break out of the $200 million of the SVOD licensing kind of broadly what percent comes from TV licensing and what percent comes from film? Sure.
Maybe I'll take a crack at both of them.
I think in the overall share count remember what we disclosed are averages too.
So it's being impacted over a period of time.
The buyback was being somewhat -- the pace of the number of shares that we were able to buy in was being somewhat impacted by the fact that share price has gone up.
So that in and of itself would change the velocity of the shares being taken in.
And then I didn't know if your question was basic versus fully diluted.
Fully diluted would have always had the impact of the options in there but the options were more in the money.
And they've actually now to the extent that they've been exercised they're actually in the authorization in the issued account.
LLC Research Division</strong> So has there been an acceleration of exercise that sort of slows the diluted share count decrease or? Not if you were looking fully diluted to fully diluted.
But the price -- the fact that the price went up would have somewhat of an impact on that.
It's the fact that the price went up mechanically is the single biggest driver.
They're probably the trend that you're seeing.
But there's options in money -- were more in the money before which is a lot.
So -- and on your SVOD just some context in terms of the amount of revenues that we book to-date.
We're now north of $250 million.
We remain in constructive dialogue and constructive conversations with a number of SVOD companies.
So there's a good chance that that number could go up before the end of the year.
But if you look at the $250 million and break it out roughly 2/3 of it is TV versus film.
And Netflix comprises probably around 40% to 45% of the total.
We've sold a meaningful amount of product to Amazon and the Amazon-owned LOVEFiLM.
So that's about $100 million and about 2/3 of the money has been domestic with a full 1/3 of it coming internationally.
So that'll just give you a little bit of a sense of we are doing business with multiple players.
We're doing business around the world and we see greater opportunities in the future to sell deeper amounts of our product.
LLC Research Division</strong> And if you look at that 2/3 of TV versus film is it possible to break that down by the sort of WB-related stuff as opposed to just Warner studio? I think I mentioned that Netflix was about 40% to 45% of the total around $250 million.
Most of that is CW but not all.
LLC Research Division</strong> CW I'm sorry.
Majority of it.
Our next question comes from Richard Greenfield from BTIG.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First Jeff you've talked a lot about the need for innovation and adjusting to kind of a change in consumer behavior.
We've seen the theatrical the home video window creep a couple of weeks closer but it's still months between the 2 distribution platforms.
I was wondering how do you get the industry to affect greater change than what we've seen so far? And then two I think we're big believers that HBO it doesn't make sense for HBO to go direct to consumers given its overall model.
But you all at Warner Bros.
create a tremendous amount of high quality original programming.
Why haven't we seen you go direct-to-consumer with a new network kind of aimed at a broadband offering of high-quality content? Thanks Rich.
Let me do them in that order.
So in terms of innovation and adjusting to change in consumer habits we are trying to do what you're saying.
And I think you're rightfully asking well how do you get it faster how do you get it more massively influential to serve consumers? We've been trying with Blu-ray with SVOD coming up and cooperating with them with window experiments I think the Fox early electronic sale window is something that all of us have -- and all of us saw releasing movies to try to see if that will help.
For example last 4 major WB releases have had at least a 2-week ESP window in the United States and so we are approaching it case-by-case.
But we're all moving in that direction as you said.
You know it all of you know it that there are some very big partners in retail and theatrical that were trying to make sure that they are part of the transition and that their liability as premier platforms is increasingly strong.
And let's not forget that the technical quality and experience of people in theaters and of people getting home video now electronically not just physically through all those huge systems is very important.
What we're trying to do with UV and some of our other plans that we've actually been the leader of is to try to make the choice between rental and sale viable on both.
We're trying to make the experience better and easier for both and we think pricing will follow the convenience and demand that consumers express as they try to adopt these new ways.
So that's your first question.
The second question which is and I agree with you on the HBO decision for now.
But given the content we're making at Warner's the simple answer is that the concept of a subscription broadband network isn't that ready for prime time.
If you look at those that exist Netflix is the biggest there are several more we all know they're doing fine.
They're clearly adjusting.
The utility they seem to bring to consumers is a good interface and really the only real accessible way to get things on demand.
What they are less servicing in terms of providing what consumers need is they don't really have fresh programs.
And so I think your question goes to that.
We are making programming that's on a lot of Internet channels.
Some of it's on YouTube.
We're trying to figure out what is the best economic house what's the most monetizable for original programming that's obviously going to be seen on the VOD method.
If you were talking about a let's call it an Internet network on demand that comes out of a producing company Warner Bros.
it's not clear that's the best way to offer genres to customers.
I mean there's plenty of branded Networks that can offer VOD and Internet-delivered programming to consumers where the show when we make it is both more valuable to us and more easy for consumers to use if it comes in the branded network where they expect to see it.
Comedies are different than dramas.
Doesn't really make sense to us to create an all-genre Network on VOD and put it out over the Internet at this point.
And we think it's more likely that the current Networks which are very successful they're very strong at developing appropriate programming for consumers where consumers know how to find it they go to the Food Network expecting something different than where -- what they go to TBS for MTV et cetera.
We think that's more likely to be where the outlets go.
LLC Research Division</strong> I asked because you were early in the premium cable space.
You really defined cable television as the medium took off with HBO that now dominates the space in terms of quality of programming.
And it just seems like from a broadband standpoint we're still so early in the broadband video evolution.
It just seems like you have an opportunity to do that or you're in a unique position to do something there.
Yes I'm not -- I don't want to rule it out exactly but the -- if you think Rich of this huge huge demand for original programming it's coming from all of the existing Networks and now the SVOD Networks.
It's a tremendous kind of demand for us to program to and sell to.
And the question I think you're asking is creating Networks with specific either narrow-genre definitions or all-genre definitions you'd have to figure out which of those 2 things was really the key thing to do.
It's not in our view because we have the capability of making a lot of programming across all genres.
We all know that.
We're doing it now and we're the lead supplier basically of everything to every existing Network.
So it's -- so far we think that's the better way to play it and we have as you know our own Networks which we can broaden whether it's TNT or TBS whether it's truTV Adult Swim HBO Cinemax et cetera.
So we're probably headed in that direction instead.
Our next question comes from Doug Mitchelson from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to switch to some numbers questions for John.
I've got a few but they're all short.
You gave a nice breakdown of SVOD revenues.
How are you indexing at this point versus competitors? Have you caught up in terms of monetization? Doug I appreciate the question.
I actually don't know because while we pay attention to our competitors I don't know exactly what's in all of their numbers.
I would tell you I don't -- I would guess that we're probably at or near the top.
And as I said there's a lot of constructive discussions continuing.
By the way the numbers that I gave you do not include the revenues that are recorded at The CW which we're an equity partner in.
But The CW did a very significant deal and there are probably $60 million to $70 million of revenues recorded at The CW this year too.
So we're -- philosophically we see SVOD as a very very big opportunity for us.
I think we've been very clear about the types of programming that we're willing to sell and in what windows.
And I think there's a lot of opportunity ahead.
Research Division</strong> What's the cadence? Did the 2012 deals create a tough comp for 2013 or does it smooth out because you do deals every year? I don't know exactly.
But my strong suspicion is that we're not going to have a big negative comparison next year because a lot of these deals are multi-year and availabilities are coming in throughout them.
I know that's the case with The CW and with Hulu and some of these smaller deals is probably the same.
So we're building in basically a recurring revenue stream and we're hoping to grow off of that.
I would just add since we have more series and movies than basically anybody else if the SVOD companies are able to grow then further answer supporting what John said our revenues will be continuous and go up.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense and then lastly do you see them boosting -- being boosted by the election in 4Q? And I was hoping you would share the entertainment Networks ad pacing for 4Q because that might help us care forward the growth in x news into 2013.
Let me just start by saying that CNN won the night last night.
And that's always good.
In terms of the fourth quarter you're asking not in news because you started with the election you're asking about ad revenues for our entertainment Networks in the fourth quarter? Research Division</strong> Yes John said that it was mid to high-single digits.
So and I'm wondering if that's being boosted by CNN or held back by CNN.
CNN is benefiting from the election and it's probably pacing in and around that mid to high-single digit overall figure.
We obviously have a portfolio of Networks and the scatter commentary that I gave is overall by definition kind of an average but we have seen some mixed demand across different and various categories.
Domestic entertainment is pretty good.
News has been pretty good boosted by the election.
We have seen some light demand in kids including our Adult Swim.
That can change but that's just been as of late in Q4 and a little bit of a slowdown in sports because there's a lot more inventory in the market this year because of the NBA versus a year ago.
So it's a little bit of a mixed bag.
Overall it feels pretty steady though.
And CNN's results clearly relative to the last 3 quarters have been boosted by the election.
Our last question comes from Vasily Karasyov from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I have one on HBO and one on Turner Networks quickly.
Jeff how high quality is the subscriber growth at HBO? I'm just thinking back to 2010 when HBO was penalized for one of your distributors' promotional subscribers rolling off.
So if you could tell us probably what you think is driving that because it's certainly not pay TV total pay TV addressable market growth.
And then how confident are you that TBS ratings will hold up now that we are about to start lapping the improvement last December when you put Big Bang Theory on.
So if you could give us an idea of how broad the ratings recovery is and what we should be expecting in terms of comps there? Okay on HBO the quality and the mix between HBO and Cinemax and promotional subs and paying subs is quite good.
It's normal for us.
Basically there's an overall buoyancy to sub growth at HBO and Cinemax across the affiliate base and across the Networks that's domestically.
International that's equally true.
So just to remind you when we had the -- I think everybody wondered a few years ago when we had a drop on promotional subs it had to do with a couple of big affiliate deals that we're renewing and therefore they were dropping off nonpaying subs.
And we always have some of those but what we're saying in answer to your question is this is broad-based sub growth across the categories.
And so you should view it as representative of the future of the network.
On the question you had on where was this on...
LLLP Research Division</strong> TBS ratings coming up on The Big Bang Theory? Yes okay.
Well so as you all know we've had TBS a huge ratings success growth 30% plus from that show at TBS.
You can't expect to keep doing that once that's in the mix.
So we're really confident that The Big Bang Theory will hold up.
We have a very strong -- and the reason is it's not being overexposed.
Most viewers of it are watching a couple of episodes a week.
It's a completely fresh show for most of our viewers because most of them did not see it on CBS and so we have no concerns about Big Bang's very strong contribution to the network being erratic are going away.
We think it will be very solid and very predictable for us.
We also though because of the strength of Big Bang lifting the rest of the schedule giving us a place to launch other shows and I mentioned in my prepared remarks that it lifted say the Conan show and some of the rest of the schedule but just looking at launching new originals part of the reason that Men at Work and Sullivan &amp; Son succeeded as well as they did is that they were launched on the strength of that audience base that Big Bang provided.
And we're going to follow those up with Wedding Band another original comedy we're launching this month.
And we're very excited as we said about the arrival of Cougar Town early next year.
So that's going to give us original shows added to the mix.
We think our acquired shows are going to hold up.
We've got several new unscripted shows slated for next year.
One of them is called King of the Nerds.
And I know all of you will want to turn into that as we will hear.
We're also going to get the syndicated run of the Cleveland show next year.
Finally on a longer-term basis and this is really thinking of the strong balance position that TBS has both with originals and the strength of acquiring and our access to acquire from the biggest producer of those years which is Warner Bros.
we've got Two Broke Girls coming for 2015.
So as we look out over the long run we plan our original development we plan our acquired budget we look out at what is successful on Network TV and which shows we want we feel that we're in a very good position to keep building at TBS.
All right thanks everybody for dialing in today.
Welcome to the Time Warner Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ellen and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Doug Shapiro Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for Time Warner.
Please proceed.
Thanks and good morning.
This morning we issued 2 press releases one detailing our results for the fourth quarter and full year and the other providing our 2013 full year business outlook.
Before we begin there are 2 items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our site.
And second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn it over to Jeff.
Thanks Doug and thanks for listening in today.
2012 was another successful year for us and we're at an even stronger position today than we were a year ago.
Adjusted operating income was up 4% and adjusted earnings per share climbed 13%.
Looking back over the last 4 years adjusted OI has grown at 10% per year and adjusted EPS has grown by more than 20% per year or over 130% cumulatively.
Our networks which is the core of the company grew adjusted operating income in the double digits in 2012 and 12% annually over that same 4-year period.
At the same time in 2012 we continue to build a foundation for strong ongoing growth in 2013 and beyond.
And as you saw this morning we once again expect to deliver low double-digit adjusted earnings per share growth this year.
We also continue to return capital to our shareholders last year paying $1 billion in dividends and purchasing more than $3 billion of our stock.
That's more than 8% of our outstanding shares.
Since we restarted our share repurchase program in 2009 we've bought back more than 1/4 of our equity base.
Reflecting our continued commitment to return capital this morning we announced that our board has approved a new $4 billion repurchase authorization and an 11% increase in our dividend per share.
That's the fourth consecutive year of double-digit dividend increases.
Our performance in 2012 and our expectation of continued strong growth are the products of the strategic priorities that we've put in place several years ago and which we continue to pursue today.
They may not sound new to you but one of the hallmarks of a sound strategy is that it doesn't change too often.
First and foremost we're investing aggressively in our content.
Second we're pushing to develop the next generation of digital business models in ways that enhance value to consumers and to the company.
Third we're seeking to replicate our domestic success in the most attractive international territories.
And fourth overlaying everything we do as a continuing effort to improve our operating and capital efficiency.
I'd like to spend a few minutes talking about how we executed against these objectives in 2012 and how we aim to do it again in 2013.
And I'll start with our first priority and that's our content.
At Turner in 2012 we continued our path of refreshing essentially the entire prime time lineup on TNT and TBS over a multiple-year period.
Last year we had more original programming on our entertainment networks than ever including new originals like Dallas and Perception on TNT and Men at Work on TBS.
We also bolstered our lineup of new acquired shows adding The Mentalist and Castle on TNT and securing 2 Broke Girls for TBS in 2015.
And we extended our relationship with Major League Baseball securing rights to regular season games and postseason games well into the next decade.
So with the NCAA NBA NASCAR and baseball we have the strongest lineup of national sports rights of any cable network other than ESPN's group.
For the most part these efforts are paying off.
In 2012 TBS was the #1 ad-supported cable network in prime for adults 18 to 34 and it was #3 for adults 18 to 49.
At TNT while we have more work to do ratings improved over the course of the year and it ended 2012 as the #4 cable network in prime among adults 18 to 49.
TNT also claimed 5 of the top 10 cable originals of the year: The Closer Rizzoli &amp; Isles Major Crimes Perception and Dallas.
And TNT had the top 3 new originals of the year on cable.
We delivered continued solid performance across our more targeted networks.
For the year Adult Swim was again the #1 cable network in total day for young adults; Cartoon ranked #1 in total day for boys 6 to 11 and boys 9 to 11; and truTV was close to a top 10 network in prime among men 18 to 49.
CNN finished the year on a high note thanks to its election coverage.
And while its overall ratings performance in 2012 fell short of our expectations I'm optimistic that with the new leadership we've announced CNN will once again fulfill the promise of its iconic brands.
As we've discussed with you before over the next several years we'll be increasingly focused on monetizing these investments in content as we enter our next round of affiliate renewals.
We also told you that we expect Turner's domestic subscription revenue to grow at a double-digit compound annual growth rate between 2013 and 2016.
And as we get closer to starting the renewal process we're as confident in that forecast as ever.
In addition to monetizing this content through traditional revenue streams we also started to license Turner content to SVOD providers.
In the last few months Turner and Warner Bros.
together announced deals with both Amazon and Netflix licensing serialized shows such as Dallas and Falling Skies along with animated series from both Cartoon Network and Adult Swim.
This emerging back end for cable originals is a very promising sign since it should result in production values for cable originals getting even better over time.
In 2013 we'll do even more of the same.
That includes airing originals on TNT and TBS year round and increasing the number of original episodes on those 2 networks by more than 40%.
We'll do that within the cost growth envelope that we've discussed with you before.
At HBO our content lineup is the best it's ever been and it just keeps getting better.
In 2012 we added several popular and critically acclaimed new shows like the Newsroom Girls and Veep to a schedule that already included blockbuster series True Blood Game of Thrones and Boardwalk Empire.
Underscoring the amount of quality programming on that network last year HBO won more Emmys than any other network for the 11th year in a row.
It also just received more Golden Globes than any other network too.
As usual last year HBO also offered by far the largest slate of Hollywood blockbusters of any premium network roughly 1/2 of the top 25 films in the pay window.
In recent months we've extended our output deals with both Fox and Universal helping solidify HBO's leading position on theatrical films well into the next decade.
The strength of this programming on HBO and Cinemax and the success of HBO GO and MAX GO helped generate the best subscriber gains in a decade.
Both brands are an improvement at virtually all of our major affiliates.
Together they added 1.9 million subscribers domestically for the year.
At Warner Bros.
our investments in great storytelling also paid off last year enabling us to post the second-highest annual profits ever even without a Harry Potter release.
Our TV studio was again the leading producer of broadcast TV programming in the 2012-2013 season.
With hits like The Big Bang Theory The Voice Revolution Two and a Half Men 2 Broke Girls The Following Mike &amp; Molly and Person of Interest Warner's now accounts for 1/3 of the top shows on broadcast TV with adults 18 to 49 including 3 of the top 4 comedies on television.
Our game plan in 2013 is the same to foster the best possible environment for the best writers and producers in Hollywood.
And we expect another very good year.
As you know we're seeing great secular dynamics in TV production right now with increasing demand from all our buyers broadcast cable originals off-mix indication international and subscription VOD.
For instance besides the deals that Warner Bros.
and Turner struck with Amazon and Netflix which I mentioned earlier in recent months Warner's also cut a comprehensive slate deal with Netflix for new serialized shows in the U.S.
as well as a series of agreements internationally including Canada Latin America the U.K.
and Ireland and the Nordic region.
These deals boost our confidence that we'll be seeing strong SVOD revenues again in 2013 and beyond.
We also had a great year at the film studio led by The Dark Knight Rises which grossed $1.1 billion at the global box office making it the highest grossing film in the franchise.
We also have the first part of The Hobbit trilogy which is on track to reach $1 billion globally; Magic Mike; and the multiple award-winning film Argo.
Driven by countries like Brazil Russia and China we're increasingly seeing international box office totals outstripping domestic box by more than 2:1 for our biggest hits.
It's hard to top that but our 2013 theatrical slate looks even better.
It includes Man of Steel The Hangover 3 Great Gatsby Pacific Rim the sequel to 300 and of course the second film in The Hobbit series.
In fact that was all content.
So turning now to our second main priority.
In 2012 we continue to lead the digital transition across our businesses.
At our networks Turner expanded its TV Everywhere offerings adding new platforms and new apps.
Turner's TVE services are now available to over 80 million households and we offer over 1 000 hours of on-demand content and our first live streaming app for CNN.
Adoption of TV Everywhere clearly has not progressed at the consumer level as fast as we would have liked.
However with growing availability of authenticated content for many of our cable programming peers slated for 2013 to finally joining us we expect much greater consumer awareness and usage starting this year.
At HBO HBO GO and MAX GO are now available to essentially our entire domestic subscriber base and they're available across a wide variety of devices and platforms including iOS Android Kindle and Xbox.
As we've discussed with you before we've seen very healthy usage and consumer satisfaction is through the roof.
Gross subs said they are more loyal to HBO and they're watching more HBO and monthly usage per user climbed 80% between the end of 2011 and 2012.
We've also just launched a program to bundle in HBO GO on college campuses to help us attract the next generation of HBO subscribers.
We're rolling out GO as an authenticated product where we have linear networks internationally too.
It's now available in 10 countries in Central and Northern Europe and 8 countries in Latin America.
This year we'll start to launch in Asia.
At Warner's as you know we're spearheading a number of initiatives to improve the consumer proposition of buying and owning digital movies.
UltraViolet has only been in the market for a short time but it's gaining momentum.
UV is now supported by almost every major studio.
Over 8 500 titles are available in the UV format and it has more than 9 million registered users.
In 2013 we expect to see a lot more retailers coming on board.
Flixster and the other providers are also launching in-home disc-to-digital services that allow consumers to unlock the digital rights to their physical DVDs right from their home computers.
With UV already available in the U.S.
Canada and the U.K.
this year we also plan to roll it out in Australia France Germany Ireland and New Zealand.
Time Inc.
significantly expanded its digital efforts in 2012 too.
That included launching [Audio Gap] iOS Android and Kindle platforms and we've seen some encouraging signs so far.
For instance our tablet subscribers are younger they have higher incomes and over 70% of them have never subscribed to those titles before.
A third priority I mentioned earlier is expanding our presence internationally in key territories particularly our network businesses.
Turner is focused on increasing its scale in each of its targeted territories including investing more in local production and securing distribution from new networks in countries where we already have a presence.
We're also looking to significantly streamline our operations in areas where we don't have scale like Western Europe.
HBO is following the same playbook internationally that succeeded so well domestically increasing local production and rolling out product enhancements like HD On Demand and now HBO GO.
It's working.
HBO and Cinemax grew to 73 million subscribers internationally.
That's up more than 35% from the end of 2011.
Adding in our domestic cap HBO now has 114 million subs globally.
That's far more than any competitor.
And HBO is also expanding into new territories.
Last year we launched new HBO premium services in the Netherlands and the Nordic region and we announced plans for the first premium TV service in India.
The fourth and final objective I mentioned earlier is one that informs everything else we do and that is continual striving to improve our operating and capital efficiency.
And reflecting that focus in 2012 total operating expenses actually declined 2% even as we invested more in content.
We may not be able to replicate that every year but closely managing our expense growth has become a way of life at Time Warner.
As one example we're making progress on our enterprise services initiative that will ultimately improve the efficiency of certain IT real estate and HR functions.
In 2013 that will require some additional investment but we expect to ultimately save several hundred million dollars annually on a run-rate basis.
And at the same time we know that active balance sheet management is a critical component of equity returns.
Over the last 4 years we've generated $11 billion in free cash flow and we've returned $15 billion in dividends and share repurchases including more than $4 billion last year.
As you saw with the dividend increase and a new repurchase authorization that we announced today returning substantial capital to our shareholders remains a cornerstone of our capital plan.
So we accomplished a lot in 2012.
I think we're exiting the year stronger than we ended it.
And with another year of double-digit adjusted earnings per share growth under our belt I think it's fair to say that our approach is working.
Our track record shows that a combination of good organic growth tight cost controls and active balance sheet management can consistently deliver attractive financial performance and strong equity returns.
With that I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks for listening.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide which is now available on our website.
Starting with the consolidated highlights of the first slide you'll see that the fourth quarter was a terrific way to end what was another really strong year.
The fourth quarter was our strongest quarter of the year in terms of growth coming in even a little better than we anticipated with adjusted operating income up 16% and adjusted EPS up almost 25%.
And that helped us post another year of double-digit adjusted EPS growth up 13%.
As Jeff mentioned the initiatives we put in place several years ago have allowed us to achieve consistently strong results.
In fact 2012 was our fourth straight year of double-digit adjusted EPS growth and that was despite a slight dip in revenue which resulted from very difficult comparisons at the Film and TV Entertainment group as well as a very challenging environment in Publishing.
We were able to accomplish that due to a continued positive mix shift toward higher margin networks and TV production businesses a continuing big focus on costs across the company and our ongoing share repurchase program.
We reduced operating expenses by low-single digits in 2012 enabling us to push up margins by over 100 basis points for the full year.
That included holding network costs almost flat even as we made significant investments in original programming at both Turner and HBO.
As you know that's been a consistent theme at the company now for a long time.
On a consolidated basis we've kept our expenses essentially flat over the past 4 years increasing margins by more than 500 basis points over that period.
For the full year 2012 we also deployed about $1 billion in dividends and over $3 billion in share repurchases.
And as evidenced by the dividend increase and new repurchase authorization we announced this morning we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns.
So we're very pleased with how the year ended and we feel great about how we're positioned going into 2013 and beyond.
Now let me turn to the segment highlights beginning at the networks where both HBO and Turner grew adjusted operating income double digits for both the quarter and the full year.
That resulted in another record year of profits for this segment.
Subscription revenues were up a very healthy 7% in the quarter and 6% for the year and that's despite a modest negative impact from foreign currency.
That growth reflects both higher domestic rates and continued international growth.
And as Jeff mentioned HBO is experiencing the strongest domestic subscriber trends it's seen in years.
That includes improved performance across most of our major distributors and we've seen particular strength from satellite and telco which continue to take share from the cable operators.
Keep in mind that due to the nature of our affiliate contracts the majority of these subscriber additions are non revenue-generating still with sub growth provided some boost in 2012 and gives us a good start heading into the year.
So we feel good about the trajectory of subscription revenues here and that's before we see the expected benefits from our upcoming domestic renewal cycle at Turner which will begin to kick in in 2014.
Moving over to advertising revenues were up 3% in the quarter with domestic advertising revenue up 7%.
And that was helped by additional NBA games compared to the year-ago quarter which was impacted by the NBA work stoppage.
We also had a very good quarter at CNN which benefited from higher ratings around the U.S.
presidential election.
International advertising revenues declined just under 10% in the quarter.
Growth was negatively impacted by the shutdown of Imagine and TNT Turkey as well as unfavorable foreign exchange movements.
Looking through these items international ad revenue would have been about flat in the quarter and that's clearly below what our longer term expectations are here and that's due to the tough economic conditions that currently exist in Europe as well as some current rating softness in Latin America.
Looking ahead to the first quarter of 2013 we anticipate total reported advertising revenues to be about flat.
And that's a little slower than the fourth quarter and that's due to a few reasons.
First we're not going to benefit from additional NBA games; or second the 2012 U.S.
presidential election as we did in the fourth quarter; and third we'll have fewer NCAA games versus the year-ago period and that's due to timing of the tournament.
However we expect the pace of advertising growth to pick up starting in the second quarter as we lap the transfer of management of SI.com and Golf.com to Time Inc.
and the international network shutdowns that I previously mentioned.
Our year-over-year comparisons also ease somewhat as the year progresses.
So for the full year 2013 we still anticipate solid growth in networks advertising.
Adjusted operating income at the networks group was up a very strong 17% in the fourth quarter and 10% for the full year with margins expanding almost 200 basis points for the year.
In addition to solid revenue growth that reflects continued tight cost controls which was evident throughout the year.
For 2012 programming expenses were up just 2% and overall expenses were up only 1%.
And that's despite a high-single-digit increase in original entertainment and sports programming.
Expenses and margins benefited from international network shutdowns.
But even without those 2012's results were the continuation of a multi-year trend in margin expansion.
Networks margins are up over 600 basis points since 2008 and over 1 000 basis points over the past decade.
And we expect those trends to continue over the next several years.
At our international networks businesses including HBO's unconsolidated ventures profits were relatively flat in 2012 at around $650 million.
And that was largely due to the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates; the macroeconomic conditions in some territories especially Europe; and HBO's expansion into new regions.
But we're confident in the longer-term growth trajectory here and we continue to expect these businesses to reach about $1 billion in adjusted operating income in the next few years.
For 2013 we expect to have another great year at the networks segment.
As I just mentioned we feel good about subscription and advertising revenue trends.
And on the cost side we remain very focused on investing in programming while limiting growth in non-revenue-generating expenses.
And internationally we anticipate a return to very strong profit growth this year as a result of improving organic revenue trends a reduced drag from FX and recently announced cost savings initiatives in Europe.
So putting that all together we expect another year of margin expansion an attractive growth in adjusted operating income at this segment.
Let me turn now over to Film and TV where Warner Bros.
posted its highest quarterly adjusted operating income ever in the fourth quarter of 2012.
And from what we can tell it's actually the highest quarterly profit any studio has ever generated in any particular quarter.
And for the year Warner Bros.
had its second-highest profits ever.
For the quarter and the year margins benefited from both a mixed shift towards higher margin TV revenue and a decline in P&amp;A spending due to fewer theatrical releases.
To put the year in context if you set aside 2011 for a moment adjusted operating income was more than 10% higher than in any other year in its history.
And of course we did that without a Harry Potter theatrical or Harry Potter home video release.
Warner's ability to maintain such a high level of profitability is a testament to the diversity of revenue streams here and in particular to the strong performance of the TV production business.
In 2012 Warner Bros.
TV accounted for approximately 60% of Warner Bros.' profits and it grew both revenues and profits year-over-year despite an extremely challenging comparison against the syndication of The Big Bang Theory and Friends in 2011.
It was able to overcome those comparisons partially due to growth in demand from SVOD services and international syndication.
For the year we've recognized around $350 million in SVOD revenues the majority of which came from our television product.
In our theatrical business we had a very good year and a very successful fourth quarter despite difficult comparisons.
The first film in The Hobbit trilogy has generated around $950 million at the global box office and is on track to join The Dark Knight Rises as our second 2012 release to pass $1 billion in global box office.
The strong box office performances of The Hobbit and the critically acclaimed film Argo helped keep our theatrical revenues almost flat in the fourth quarter and that's despite a decline in the number of theatrical releases.
Looking ahead to 2013 we are very optimistic about the film slate which as Jeff mentioned includes the second film in the Hobbit trilogy Man of Steel and Hangover 3 to name just a few.
Additionally we have another strong year at our TV studio where we continue to see robust demand across major buyers including domestic and international SVOD services.
In addition to some recent SVOD deals we remain in active discussions with all major SVOD services about additional content packages.
The strong demand for both our TV and theatrical product is showing up in our backlog which reached a record $6 billion at the end of 2012 and that's up 60% over the past 5 years.
Backlog as a reminder is cash licensing revenue for television and theatrical product that will be recognized in the future.
So that gives us a lot of confidence about the long-term growth prospects in this business.
We're also encouraged by recent signs of stabilization in home entertainment with total consumer spending for the industry actually flat in 2012.
That's happening because digital is now big enough and growing fast enough to make up for physical declines.
In fact Warner's digital home video revenue including SVOD VOD and EST approached $1 billion in 2012 and we expect it to grow close to 20% in 2013.
And we also have a strong games release this year which will include the next release in the Batman Arkham franchise.
So all in all we expect Warners to post another very strong year in 2013.
And with a little luck the year should be as good or maybe even a little bit better than 2012.
Let's move on to Publishing where very challenging industry conditions weighed on Time Inc.'s results for both the quarter and the year.
Nevertheless Time Inc.
continued to take advertising shares during 2012 and fourth quarter trends showed some signs of improvement across both advertising and subscription revenues.
Advertising revenues declined 4% in the quarter.
And while clearly not where we want that to be that marked the smallest advertising decline of the year.
Subscription revenues were flat in the quarter an improvement over the last couple of quarters and that included both better underlying trends as well as the impact of having an additional week in the calendar.
Newsstand sales remained somewhat soft in the fourth quarter but People Magazine took significant share in its category.
It's worth pointing out that other revenues were negatively impacted by the absence of revenues from QSP which was sold in the first quarter of 2012.
The absence of QSP was also the principal driver of the drop in adjusted operating income at Time Inc.
during the quarter.
While QSP was roughly breakeven for full year 2011 it was a highly seasonal business only generating profits in the fourth quarter.
So excluding any impact of its sale adjusted operating income would have effectively been flat at Time Inc.
in the quarter.
As we look ahead to the first quarter of 2013 advertising newsstand sales remains somewhat soft but we continue to see some improvement in underlying trends relative to recent quarters.
In light of the ongoing industry challenges Time Inc.
has started the process of reducing its global workforce by approximately 6%.
This restructuring will lower costs in both our domestic and international operations by centralizing certain functions increasing collaboration across titles and streamlining research and marketing.
These actions will result in a restructuring charge of around $60 million which we plan to take in the first quarter.
Turning to the next slide let me provide some context for our 2013 outlook.
As I noted before we were able to generate really nice growth in adjusted operating income and strong growth in adjusted EPS in 2012 even without growing revenue.
That reflects our continued ability to keep tight control over costs and also highlights the positive impact of our ongoing share repurchase program.
As we look at 2013 we see continued strong profit growth at Networks another strong year at Film and TV Entertainment and some stabilization in Publishing declines.
So we expect faster growth in adjusted operating income in 2013 versus 2012.
At the same time the share count impact will be less favorable than it was in 2012 and that's because our aggressive pace of share repurchases in 2011 benefited the 2012 share count and because the rise in our stock since the summer pushed all employee stock options into the money.
All of that's reflected in our outlook for low double-digit growth and adjusted EPS.
Keep in mind that our outlook includes the roughly $60 million restructuring that I just mentioned at Publishing.
In addition this year we expect to incur about an incremental $25 million of spending year-over-year on our enterprise efficiency initiatives.
It's also likely that we're going to begin to account for our nearly 50% stake at CME as an equity investment later this year upon the expiration of our voting agreement.
Assuming the same level of losses as we recognized last year that would result in us recognizing about a $30 million amount of additional equity losses in 2013.
Looking beyond 2013 I also want to talk about why we feel so confident and why we feel we're so well positioned for the next few years.
Around 85% of our profits are tied to the TV ecosystem which is extremely healthy both here and around the world.
And that's by all measures: subscribers viewership affiliate fees and advertising.
Another 10% of our profits come from movies which are benefiting from positive trends in global box office and recent signs of a stabilization at home video.
And as Jeff described our major strategic initiatives are geared to take advantage of these trends.
We think we'll continue to see the payoff from those initiatives in the next several years as we leverage our content investment by increasing our affiliate fees drive international growth in our networks continue to monetize our content on new platforms and start to see the benefits from our enterprise efficiency initiatives.
When we put all that together and we add in continued returns to shareholders we think we can continue to generate very attractive growth for the foreseeable future.
Turning to the next slide which looks at our free cash flow.
In 2012 we generated almost $3 billion and that was higher than we anticipated coming into the year.
And that was the result of very strong free cash flow generation in the back half of the year.
Free cash flow was up nicely over 2011 as we grew adjusted operating income while reducing our investments in working capital and reducing capital expenditures.
The decline in working capital was largely a result of having fewer event films in production as well as a higher reimbursement for co-financed productions.
CapEx was also lower and that was partially due to the completion of the making of Harry Potter at our studio in Leavesden.
Those positive factors were somewhat offset by an increase in cash taxes and cash interest in 2012 but we still saw an increase in our conversion of both adjusted OIBDA and adjusted net income.
As a reminder over the past few years we had some significant working capital needs due to principally the timing and nature of film production at our studio.
We've begun to see that reverse during the back half of 2012 and we should continue to see the benefits of those investments over the next several years.
So as a result of that we believe our rate of free cash flow conversion should move higher over the next several years.
Let me move now to the final slide which looks at our net debt.
We ended 2012 with a strong and flexible balance sheet.
Net debt was $17 billion at the end of the year and our leverage ratio was 2.4x which is just below our target of 2.5x.
During the year we took advantage of market conditions to strengthen our balance sheet and maintained strategic flexibility by issuing $1 billion of new public long-term debt and extending the maturity date on $2.5 billion of our $5 billion credit facility all at highly attractive rates.
In addition to investing in our businesses we deployed just under $700 million in strategic M&amp;A transactions including the acquisition of Bleacher Report as well as increasing our investment in CME.
Also as I previously mentioned we returned over $4 billion of capital in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
So if you look back over the past 4 years our approach has been one of balance and consistency.
Since 2008 we have generated over $11 billion in free cash flow and we've paid out close to $4 billion in dividends.
We've repurchased over $11 billion of our shares or 27% of the base and we've spent a little under $3 billion on acquisitions.
In 2013 our philosophy of capital deployment will not change.
We'll continue to aim for the appropriate balance between maintaining a strong balance sheet providing us access to the capital markets and strategic flexibility as well as actively deploying our capital.
And we still think that a targeted leverage ratio of 2.5x is the best level that balances all of these goals.
This will enable us to invest in our businesses make strategic acquisitions and return a substantial amount of capital to stockholders.
So I appreciate you listening today.
So with that let me turn the call back over to Doug and we'll start the Q&amp;A portion.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot John.
Ellen can we get the Q&amp;A started? [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from John Janedis with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Jeff over the past couple of months you've announced a handful of exclusive SVOD deals.
I think some of them will ultimately include current network shows which I think is new for you.
Can you talk about your ability to grow that exclusive window going forward based on existing rights? And then John on a related topic you gave us a $350 million of SVOD for last year.
Based on what you have on the books can you give us an update for this year? Thanks John.
The -- I think you were asking about the slate deal with Netflix.
Is that right? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
It's not really a change in the syndication business.
It's very similar to the CW deal we already had in place.
We've been saying for a while that subscription VOD is the right place for serialized and library product.
That's also true by the way of all the originals on HBO which is serialized VOD.
And on the normal syndication market serialized series did not have that much value.
So we think it's an increase to essentially the financial ecosystem of -- at least the serialized and library part of TV shows.
And at the same time we're seeing positive impact on ratings of new seasons on serialized shows from having the older seasons available on a VOD basis.
And so those recent deals with broadcast networks enable us to syndicate serialized seasons -- it's basically we put those series 1 season back and it's not really a big change.
I'm glad you asked about it because I think as John pointed out on the call we generated over $350 million in revenue from SVOD deals in 2012.
That doesn't even include the CW deal which is similar in that serialized "1 season back" way.
And that's pretty significant.
And since we've already signed some new deals in 2013 with both Amazon and Netflix and there's some more being discussed we feel very good about the trajectory of the business from a financial support point of view.
And we think it's fitting in to the network ecosystem very well.
Hey John in terms the question that you asked about what percentage was essentially already on the books for 2013 the short answer is it's a little bit more than 1/2.
Your next question comes from Ben Swinburne with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two questions Jeff about some recent decisions you guys have made.
One can you talk about the elevation of Kevin to CEO at Warner Bros what that might mean to the strategy and the cost structure at Warner's? And any expectation around what Bruce and Jeff may do since obviously they play a huge role at the company? And then #2 at HBO some people I think thought you might let one of the studios exit over time and redeploy that capital into original programming.
Can you just talk about the decision to continue to pay for a film output on HBO given sort of the macro trends we're seeing in that business? Yes fine.
Thanks.
Warner's first.
Kevin is going to be a great leader at Warner's.
We -- well I chose him because he's got the greatest breadth of experience across Warner's businesses.
I think he's going to do a very good job of bringing together the television group which is the leading TV production group in the world; the theatrical group which is also the leading group in the world on a consistency basis; our digital and home video business which has always been the #1 share leader; and consumer products which is not #1 that's Disney but we have high expectations for that going forward.
Very thoughtful -- Kevin's very thoughtful about the future of the studio business and the integration of all those businesses that we have.
Having said that we have a very strong group of execs at Warner's notably Bruce Rosenblum running the TV group which is extremely successful and on a big roll right now; and Jeff Robinov running the theatrical group also very -- much more consistently successful than the other film studios.
And operating -- we only had a bigger scale.
So I think with those 3 working together going forward we've got a very good lineup.
I think all of those execs including Jeff and Bruce have very strong benches of people beneath them as well.
So we're basically moving toward -- and Barry Meyer deserves a lot of credit for creating this situation.
We've got really a strong next generation coming at Warner's and all of them are young enough to go pretty long.
So one of the hallmarks of Warner's has been consistency of the management over time and a deep bench.
And I'm very optimistic about how that's going to go.
On your HBO question yes we talked about and seriously consider what was the optimal thing for HBO to do in terms of how much movie commitments.
As you know we have had the leading movie lineup at -- with Warner's first and then Fox and Universal joining.
We decided to continue that out for the next decade.
It gives us some very high quality programming to fill many plex feeds in a very robust VOD offering at both HBO and Cinemax and it is true that the original programming continues to grow in profile and in volume and in quality at HBO.
But still only about 40% of the HBO subs still primarily watch movies and about 80% of the viewing on our linear plex feeds are movies.
So they still have a tremendous value.
They're very important for Cinemax as distinctive offerings.
Cinemax may be the world's best movie service.
And I think if you look over at some of our competitors take the move of movie -- Disney movies on to Netflix which shows that there's some value there for movies in the VOD world.
So we basically made the decision to have 1/2 the -- the exclusive rights to 1/2 of Hollywood movie outputs a very advantageous thing for HBO over the next decade.
And from a financial point of view these deals don't come into -- there's no financial effect of these renewals for the next 3 or 4 -- 3 years or so.
And then when the new deals kick over in '16 '17 they basically are aligned with box office growth.
And what that means is that it's a very good financial ramp for HBO over the long run and it provides continuously more room for original programming.
And as you know when you have hit original programming series on HBO they not only fuel the subscription service they are fueling the subscription growth we mentioned in the global part of HBO which is now over $70 million and then they fuel the content revenue.
And for -- on that score I think Game of Thrones is maybe the leading DVD seller in the world right now for TV series.
So it's extremely -- it's a very good architecture at the present time at HBO.
We have Alexia Quadrani with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us an update on how you view Netflix's move into original programming? While they're obviously a nice customer of yours 5-year content can they also be viewed -- or do you view them also as a competitor particularly to HBO? And any influence you think it might have on HBO going forward? Yes thank you.
Let's start with HBO first since they -- HBO is [Audio Gap] I feel great about how HBO is doing today.
I think we just talked about it.
It's got the best original programming slate ever a lot of very high-profile series and more every year.
We've locked up the theatrical movie position for the next decade.
The HBO GO product is a fantastic 21st-century Internet-ready product and we just added more subs than at any time in the last 10 years.
Now let's go over and give a little credit to Netflix.
They're doing a great job.
I think the functionality of their service some of the really consumer-friendly effectiveness of their search if you're watching it finding what you want to watch getting recommendations to go through a very very deep library a lot of programming it's -- the more programs you have on a service the more important it is to be able to find them.
But if you talk about original programming HBO has always operated in a competitive environment.
We've been happy to see some of the successes at Showtime and Stars recently in originals.
Netflix has a new original that's pretty good House of Cards.
I think that's great.
It'll take a while for that to turn into -- I forget what does HBO get? 10 or so hits here? It's all good.
I think it reminds consumers of the choice that they have of television programming on demand.
And it's an extremely -- the cycle of making breakthrough original programming and having people find it and use it which HBO has been doing for 20 years and Netflix is now joining it takes a while to get back up to scale.
We have Tim Nollen with Macquarie.
I wanted to follow up on TV Everywhere please.
What can you do to help galvanize the industry to promote the service better get more content on and also to promote VOD? Because it seems like you are really -- you have been leading the effort here and you mentioned it's been a slow start.
But I would just like to know what you can do to get your peers both on the distributor as well as the content owner sides to go further with that.
Can I also ask a question on ratings please? You spoke last time I think about doing some things to try to improve the rating systems whether it's moving from C3 to C7 whether it's including VOD or TV Everywhere whether it's to include tablets.
Just updated thoughts on what might be underway there.
Okay.
Let me -- good let's start with TV Everywhere.
Basically that structure of having streaming and VOD available is embraced by basically every program network every distributor.
Even broadcasters are now embracing TVE.
For example NBC had great success with its Olympics coverage and Disney had a very positive response to its apps for sports.
And Fox is authenticating prime time content on hulu.com and fox.com.
I think Scripps and Viacom have also made recent TVE announcements.
And as you said Turner Time Warner HBO all of our networks were the first to put most of our shows on a VOD -- television everywhere basis.
I think the technology is evolving.
Adobe Pass is now an authentication solution.
It's in use by most major programmers.
It was developed by Turner and Adobe together and it enables consumers to authenticate just once across unaffiliated networks.
So it makes it much easier for a consumer to get keyed up and not have to do it every time they turn on their device or they try to switch channels.
Other enhancements like modem-based authentication are also streamlining the authentication process.
We totally agree.
I view [ph] with your -- the premise of your question which is it's really important for the distributor world to make it easier faster not complicated or daunting for people to use this fantastic set of rights.
So one of the things -- I think HBO GO which is so powerful and easy to use is showing everyone exactly how much of a rainbow -- on how much of a pot of gold is at the end of the rainbow.
So hopefully that'll stimulate more action.
We think there are some very important device companies Apple may be one of them who are working to try to create better interfaces with devices people love to access their TV Everywhere content.
Of course that makes your network more valuable if you have it on a device and in an interface that you like.
On ratings we agree generally that probably -- the same point really to get consumers a stronger connection to their favorite network viewing.
It makes more sense for people to work on a weekly basis not a 3-day basis.
So we think C3 should expand to C7.
Look if the rights go there at the office the measurement will follow.
And that's probably how it will happen.
We have Doug Mitchelson with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jeff you emphasized a greater level of originals at TBS and TNT.
I think you said 40-plus percent more this year and I know it's been an ongoing strategy.
This puts acquired syndicated product as a lesser and lesser part of the mix while you I guess look at viewership or dollars spent or however you want to look at it.
Is there any update you can give us regarding the effectiveness of acquired syndicated products and any implications for the studio or the cable network business to the extent that syndicated content doesn't provide the same value that it used to for networks like TNT and TBS? Well it's kind of -- if you're asking whether secularly acquired product is questionable no because you've got to look at which kind and which type.
If you took the Big Bang Theory for example moving on to TBS this year it's the biggest show in any Cable network anywhere.
It took the ratings up 30% to 40%.
It's hugely successful.
If you then look at the kind of original programming series that come into networks like TNT USA et cetera you have to look at where -- the era which they come from.
And as we've talked about before 3 4 or 5 years ago the broadcast networks had a slump in scripted drama and some original series.
And so it's important not to generalize from that slump.
We've had some come on and work really well.
Castle is on TNT it's a drama.
It's working better than we thought.
We had The Mentalist come on to TNT.
It was the #1 show back when we brought it on and it has fallen off a bit at CBS in terms of new shows next week and the same at TNT.
So you do have a mixed bag.
What we think is that since we at TNT TBS have essentially a sister company access to the production company that makes the best shows across television Warner Bros.
TV has shows more than 2 at every 1 of the 5 networks we think that we are in a good position to be able to pick the ones that fit our networks and to put them into an economic system as we dial up and down the mix of acquired series that are hits.
You should look at them as hits not reruns.
They're not reruns for the people who watch them.
And then if you pick the right diet of increasing in our case original series and you mix that with the right sports offering you have a very powerful network to launch things.
It's kind of the new version of what the broadcast networks were 30 years ago.
We have David Miller with B.
Riley Caris.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk about -- Jeff can you talk about what the scatter-over-scatter performance was at TNT excluding the NBA and also including the NBA? I'd just be interested in the delta between those 2 numbers.
And then Jeff can you talk about whether or not your bias would be to renew the output deal with Legendary over here in southern -- in Los Angeles? Obviously they're just a huge supplier of premium content for you guys.
I think they're doing Man of Steel.
I think they're shouldering most of that cost burden correct me if I'm wrong.
Hangover 3 is in there Pacific Rim is in there.
There have been some rumors over here in Los Angeles about some contentiousness in the negotiations.
Could you comment in any way? Yes let me start with Legendary.
The deal with Thomas Tull's Legendary goes to the end of the year.
We're all very close to Thomas.
We've got a great relationship.
No there's not contentiousness.
There is problem solving going on and we expect to have very meaningful discussions with Legendary about the extension and the term -- on the basis basically on which it would make sense for Legendary and for us.
We're confident in our ability to generate a robust slate of films regardless of our financial partners and we have very high regard for Legendary.
So don't worry about that on either our account or theirs.
Hey David it's John.
One always wonders if somebody is going to ask a question that you haven't thought of and I think you would get the award for this call.
I don't know because we don't really look at scatter-over-scatter in terms of the way we run the business in general.
So looking backward with and without the NBA you'd probably need to follow up with Doug and team afterwards.
I will tell you in Q1 at the risk of repeating what we already said scatter is pretty steady with pricing up which probably means current quarter scatter-over-scatter is up a little bit.
But we'll have to get back to you in terms of looking backward.
The last question comes from Michael Morris with Davenport &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First on sports rights Jeff you mentioned that you have the second-largest collection of national sports rights after ESPN.
So my question is would you consider establishing a standalone sports network? You look at ESPN doing over $5 per sub per month.
Is that something you would contemplate? Why or why not? And then second internationally you mentioned streamlining Western Europe.
Does that mean that you would not look to expand your channel's holdings in Western Europe through acquisition? Or is that still a possibility? Okay.
Let me start with sports rights.
Sports rights particularly the ones we've been renewing lately the NCAA championships the baseball deal we're very happy with the performance in terms of ratings and they're a very important part of the value of our channels as we go through affiliate renewals.
So they're an important part of the offer but we're focused on having the right sports.
We'll continue to evaluate potential opportunities in the future but we will do that basically in the framework of our current existing networks not as a startup of standalone sports networks.
If you go to Europe -- I'll start.
What we meant by streamlining Western Europe is we don't have as much scale in essentially locally based networks there or to some extent in distribution of our worldwide networks as we do in Eastern Europe Latin America and Asia.
And so we were streamlining the staff layers there.
We don't have a big -- we don't have -- we're not interested in going out trying to rig a big acquisition in Western Europe if that's what you're asking.
John you want to add anything? Nope.
All right.
Well we're upon the hour so thanks everybody for listening.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes Time Warner Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Time Warner Incorporated First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
My name is Dawn and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Doug Shapiro Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for Time Warner.
Please proceed.
Thanks and good morning.
This morning we issued 2 press releases 1 detailing our results for the first quarter and the other reaffirming our 2013 business outlook.
Before we begin there are 2 items I need to cover.
First we'll refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our site.
And second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Thanks and let me turn it over to Jeff.
Thanks Doug and thanks everyone for listening in this morning.
Before I talk about our first quarter results I'd like to touch on the biggest news that we came forward with over the last few months.
And that was our announcement in March that we intend to spin off Time Inc.
as an independent public entity by the end of the year.
We think it's the right step for Time Inc.
for Time Warner and for our stockholders for a few reasons.
As you know Time Inc.
is by far the largest magazine publisher in the world with iconic brands and massive reach.
After the spin it will have much more strategic financial and operational flexibility and it will be able to develop a shareholder base that's aligned with its strategy and its growth prospects.
Also it will be able to attract retain and reward talent with equity that's directly tied to its own performance.
Ultimately we concluded that these benefits substantially outweigh the relatively smaller strategic links between Time Inc.
and our other businesses.
These are essentially the same reasons why we separated both Time Warner Cable and AOL 4 years ago.
Back when we did those transactions it wasn't common for large media companies to take steps to become smaller.
But we did them because we believe they were in the best interest of our stockholders.
And in light of the performance those companies and their stocks I think it's fair to say that they're both in a far stronger position today as independent companies.
We fully expect the same for Time Inc.
Following the spinoffs of Time Warner Cable and AOL we quickly saw the benefits of making Time Warner smaller more nimble and more focused.
With the separation of Time Inc.
we'll complete the final natural step in that process.
After the spin Time Warner will be the leading pure-play video content company in the world operating the largest cable networks business the largest TV production company and the largest film studio with the largest library.
We'll derive 80% of our profits from our cable networks.
And when you consider that roughly half of Warner Bros.
profits each year come from its TV production businesses that means 90% of our profits will come from the broader television ecosystem.
With video consumption pay TV subs pay TV ARPUs and television CPMs all growing globally we think that's a very good place to be.
It was certainly a good place to be this quarter and we're off to a great start this year.
In the first quarter we grew adjusted operating income 7% adjusted EPS increased more than 20% and we returned over $900 million to our stockholders through buybacks and our dividend.
We also saw a number of very encouraging operational trends.
At Turner the headline this quarter was again the outstanding performance of March Madness.
Across TNT TBS truTV and CBS total viewers were up 11% making it the most watched tournament in almost 2 decades.
We also saw really strong digital engagement.
For instance we delivered close to 50 million live streams.
That's up more than 150% over last year.
Since we acquired the rights the tournament has far exceeded all our expectations for ratings linear ad revenue digital usage metrics and digital ad revenue.
We also continued to see solid performance across most of our networks.
TBS was the #1 ad-supported cable network in prime time across adults 18 to 34 and 18 to 49 powered by the continued strength in The Big Bang Theory and the success of some of our new series including Cougar Town and King of the Nerds.
TNT faced some difficult NBA comparisons this quarter against the lockout-affected season last year with fewer games and fewer compelling matchups.
But TNT grew ratings for its entertainment programming which included originals like Dallas and the new unscripted show Boston's Finest.
As usual we have the bulk of our original programming on our big entertainment networks between now and the end of summer.
In June we'll bring the biggest original shows back to TNT including Rizzoli &amp; Isles Major Crimes Falling Skies and Perception and launch several new unscripted series.
At TBS our biggest original comedies returned to the lineup in the second quarter Men at Work and Sullivan &amp; Son and we'll debut a couple of new unscripted shows.
And you can expect to hear more about the continuing evolution of our original programming strategy for both TNT and TBS at our up-front presentation in a couple of weeks.
Turning to some of our more targeted networks Adult Swim continues to a juggernaut.
It posted its most watched quarter ever and again ranked #1 on all of basic cable for total day delivery of adults and men 18 to 34 and 18 to 49.
And truTV saw extremely strong performance from some of its biggest hits and some of my favorite shows like Hardcore Pawn Impractical Jokers and Lizard Lick Towing.
Check that out.
At CNN coverage of the recent tragic events in Boston and Texas reaffirmed that it's more essential than ever reaching more viewers in the key demos than any other news network as well as experiencing record traffic levels on CNN Digital.
I'm optimistic that under its energized new leadership CNN will build on its position as the leading source of breaking news to become the destination for compelling TV all the time.
I'll shift next to HBO which continues to perform at the very top of its game.
Unless you've been hanging out with some White Walkers north of The Wall you know that Game of Thrones has become a cultural phenomenon.
So far this season it's averaging over 13 million viewers per episode making it the most watched series on HBO since The Sopranos.
As a sign of its popularity despite challenges in the home video business in general the just-released second season of Game of Thrones posted the highest first day DVD and DST sales of any HBO series ever.
And Game of Thrones is only one part of what is arguably the strongest programming lineup in HBO's history.
We just debuted the second season of VEEP to critical acclaim and will follow that with the return of True Blood in June The Newsroom in July and Boardwalk Empire later this year among others.
We also have several exciting pilots in development including new shows from J.J.
Abrams David [ph]  [indiscernible] and Ryan Murphy At Warner Bros.
we're finishing up a very strong TV season.
Among adults 18 to 49 we've got 4 of the top 6 comedies on the air: The Big Bang Theory Two and a Half Men Two Broke Girls and Mike &amp; Molly.
We've got both of the breakout new dramas this season: Revolution and The Following.
And we have the #1 reality show on TV The Voice.
With a really strong slate of returning shows and a promising crop of pilots this year particularly 30-minute comedies we think we're again really well positioned heading into the up-front over the next few weeks.
Our theatrical results over the last quarter were somewhat disappointing as both Gangster Squad and Jack the Giant Slayer fell short of our expectations.
But our ability to post strong financial results in spite of this is a testament to the resilience and breadth of Warner's businesses.
And importantly all of our most promising and highly-anticipated theatrical releases of the year are yet to come.
Next week we'll premier The Great Gatsby followed by The Hangover Part 3 then Man of Steel then Pacific Rim and at the end of the year the second film in The Hobbit trilogy.
We're particularly excited about Man of Steel which is shaping up to be one of the biggest movies of the year and it's a real opportunity for us to relaunch the Superman franchise.
As you may have seen in the press we recently received a few very favorable legal rulings related to the Superman IP.
Those court decisions paved the way for us to be more aggressive in developing our future plans for Superman.
We hope to share more on that front soon.
So all in all it was another successful quarter for us both financially and operationally.
And although it's just the first quarter we're really pleased about how we're starting off the year.
With that I'll turn it over to John.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide which is now available on our website and starting with the consolidated highlights.
We're off to a terrific start this year with adjusted operating income up 7% to a first quarter record of $1.4 billion and adjusted EPS up over 20%.
And if you look at the company excluding the results of the Publishing division adjusted operating income was even stronger up 10% year-over-year.
We were able to do that despite relatively flat revenue in the quarter as costs were down low-single digits year-over-year.
That resulted in margin expansion of 140 basis points on a total company basis and around 250 basis points for the Time Warner excluding the Publishing division.
That's consistent with our expectation that we'll post a fifth straight year of margin expansion in 2013 reflecting both underlying growth in our businesses and our commitment to efficiency gains.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
We continue to leverage growth in adjusted operating income and to even faster growth in adjusted EPS and that was mostly due to a combination of a lower effective tax rate and our ongoing share repurchase program.
Coming into the year we set a goal to once again deliver double-digit adjusted EPS growth and as Jeff mentioned with the first quarter now behind us we have increased confidence we'll achieve that goal.
We also had a great start to the year for free cash flow generation generating over $900 million in the quarter.
So we fully expect to deliver a lot of free cash in 2013 supporting our continued significant returns to shareholders.
During the quarter we repurchased about $670 million of common stock and we paid $273 million in dividends.
So we think we're set up for another great year as our investments in content international expansion and digital initiatives continue to pay off.
Now let me turn to the segment highlights and let me begin with our largest segment the Networks where revenue growth and margin expansion at both HBO and Turner resulted in record first quarter adjusted operating income for the segment.
Subscription revenues were up more than 5% relatively consistent with the trends we saw for the full year 2012.
Our underlying rate increases are not changing much this year but changes in unit growth currency and various other factors can move the needle one way or another in any given quarter.
We expect to remain in the mid-single-digit range for the balance of the year and we fully expect to see an acceleration in subscription revenue growth in 2014 as Turner will begin to see the benefits from its upcoming affiliate renewal cycle.
Turning to advertising revenues were down 1% year-over-year in the quarter which is about in line with what we expected coming into the quarter.
There were a number of headwinds and let me just mention a few.
These included the timing of the Final Four games which fell into the second quarter this year.
It also included the closure of certain networks in India and Turkey last year and the transfer of management of SI.com and Golf.com to Time Inc.
last year.
Looking through these items domestic advertising was up in the mid-single digits with entertainment advertising including kids and young adults up in the mid- to high-single-digit range while news was down about 10%.
And international advertising would have been down mid-single digits due to double-digit increases at international entertainment which was more than offset by declines at international news.
Looking at the second quarter we expect overall Networks advertising growth to rebound and accelerate into the high-single digits.
Recall that next quarter we'll benefit from the timing of the Final Four and we'll finally lap the transition of SI.com and Golf.com back to Time Inc.
as well as the shutdown of India's Imagine.
In addition the second quarter scatter market has been very healthy with double-digit premiums over up-front pricing.
Adjusted operating income was up 7% in the quarter at the Networks with margins increasing 150 basis points.
That was a result of cost discipline the timing of programming expenses and the international network shutdowns last year.
However we continue to invest in our most important brands including a double-digit increase in Turner's original programming spend this quarter.
For the full year we continue to expect overall programming expenses to be up in the mid- to high single-digit range.
We also anticipate that margins will be up for the year at the Networks division as revenue growth should improve beginning in the second quarter.
So 2013 should be another really strong year of financial results for the Networks segment.
Turning now to film and TV.
Despite the somewhat disappointing box office performance start of our films this quarter Warner Bros.
had a strong quarter financially.
Adjusted operating income grew 23% year-over-year and margins expanded more than 200 basis points.
That was driven by the strong performance of our carryover films the home video sales from the first Hobbit film and lower prints and advertising spend in the quarter.
The performance of The Hobbit on home video was part of a broader trend of stabilization for the industry.
For the overall industry the first quarter was particularly encouraging in that regard as both sell-through and total home entertainment revenue increased year-over-year.
Growth was especially strong for electronic sell-through which was up over 60% from a year ago.
It's particularly encouraging to see these signs of stabilization even as some of the industry's digital initiatives including UltraViolet remain at a relatively early stage.
On the SVOD front we recognized about $75 million of revenue at this segment in the quarter similar to last year with significant contribution from international territories.
If you include Turner as well as Warner's we recognized about $100 million of SVOD revenue in the quarter.
And we continue to expect the SVOD distribution channel to be a significant contributor to our results this year.
Looking ahead as Jeff mentioned over the next few months we'll start to release our most promising and anticipated films of the year.
Likewise we're optimistic about this TV pilot season.
And between a strong stable of returning shows and a great lineup of pilots we expect to be in a very strong position again this fall in television.
With a really strong film slate and continued momentum in TV Warner Bros.' profits this year should be at least as good if not better than a year ago.
Now moving on to Publishing where both first quarter revenues and adjusted operating income were down somewhat versus last year.
A significant portion of the decline in adjusted operating income was due to higher restructuring expenses this year and absent that increase adjusted operating income would have been about flat in the quarter.
Advertising revenue was up 2% in the quarter but that included the positive impact from the transfer of management of SI.com and Golf.com back to Time Inc.
And without this transfer advertising revenues would have been down modestly year-over-year.
And based on our current outlook for Q2 we expect advertising to be down somewhat again in the second quarter.
Subscription revenues were down 11% in the first quarter though that included the impact of certain weekly titles having fewer issues in the quarter than in the prior year quarter.
As we look to the rest of the year we anticipate subscription revenue declines to be more similar to the mid-single-digit declines that we experienced in 2012 at Time Inc.
We remain very focused here on taking costs out of the business both to improve efficiency and to allow for investment in growth initiatives.
So as we previously announced Time Inc.
made significant reduction in its workforce during the first quarter and restructuring costs were a little north of $50 million in Q1.
This process is an important step in preparing Time Inc.
to operate successfully as a stand-alone public company.
Now let me move over and provide some additional context to our 2013 outlook.
As I noted earlier we're off to a great start this year and we're on track to deliver another year of double-digit growth in adjusted EPS.
In terms of quarterly progression we expect the second quarter to be very strong and it could be perhaps the strongest growth rate quarter we have in a year.
And if you'll recall in last year's second quarter we had a significant intersegment elimination resulting from the Warner Bros.
sale of The Mentalist to Turner and we also had our softest quarter of the year at Time Inc.
Along with positive underlying trends in our businesses those year-over-year comparisons set us up for a very strong second quarter growth rate.
The second quarter should also benefit from an effective tax rate that will look similar to the first quarter and below our expectation for the full year.
That means our growth will likely be more heavily weighted to the first half of this year which is somewhat different from the past couple of years.
But it is consistent with what we expected as we entered 2013 and we feel pretty good about how things have started this year and how things are shaping up.
I also want to remind you that we expect to begin accounting for our nearly 50% stake in Central European Media Enterprises as an equity investment during the second quarter of 2013.
And due to the accounting rules associated with this we will be recasting in the second quarter our historical financials as though we had always accounted for CME as an equity investment.
Now since CME produces net losses this accounting change will be somewhat of a drag on earnings.
But based on what we know today we're still comfortable with the absolute range of adjusted EPS in 2013 that is implied by our current guidance.
Turning to the next slide which looks at free cash flow.
We generated about $935 million of free cash in the first quarter and that's up significantly from a year ago and that's primarily due to an improvement in working capital as well as a decline in cash taxes.
The reduced drag from working capital accounted for more than half of the improvement in year-over-year free cash flow this quarter and that was due largely to lower production spending at Film and TV and the timing of sports payments at our Networks division.
The decline in cash taxes was a result of tax law extenders that were passed by Congress in January earlier this year.
Given the strong start and our expectations for the remainder of the year free cash flow should be up nicely in 2013.
And moving over to our final slide which looks at our net debt.
We ended the quarter with $16.9 billion in net debt which is pretty similar to where we ended 2012 as we used slightly more than 100% of our free cash flow in the quarter for dividends and share repurchases.
That's almost $950 million in the quarter and that includes about $600 million -- $670 million of share repurchases.
Our leverage ratio is now 2.4x in line with where we ended 2012.
We remain comfortable that our target leverage ratio of 2.5x strikes the right balance of maintaining balance sheet strength while allowing us to continue to invest in our businesses making acquisitions and returning capital to our stockholders.
So we'll continue to manage our balance sheet to stay in that range over the course of the year.
With that let me turn it back to Doug in order to start the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thank you.
All right.
Thanks John.
Dawn we'll get the Q&amp;A started [Operator Instructions].
[Operator Instructions] We have John Janedis from UBS online.
Research Division</strong> Jeff to your point on HBO creatively it's going great.
Can you talk about what you're seeing from a subscriber perspective? Any change in churn given the programming strength? And do you still think you have pricing power given the increase in lower-priced substitutes? Yes I think subs are going very well at HBO both domestically and overseas particularly overseas.
I don't know if you're asking about first quarter but they were pretty -- they move around in terms of the mix of paying versus not paying subs.
In general the trend is very buoyant.
We think that subscribers love the program and we got several shows that are record audience shows led by Game of Thrones.
HBO GO continues to pick up users registrations and tremendous reports from the families that are using it.
Let me -- what are you asking exactly? Research Division</strong> I guess what I'm asking is that given the strength of Game of Thrones et cetera is that bringing churn lower I guess number one? And then number two given some of the lower-priced substitutes for let's say $8 or $10 is there any kind of impact in terms of your subs as it relates to some sort of substitution effect as a result of that? Okay now I got it.
No I don't think there's any effect of other complementary services like Netflix et cetera.
Remember both Netflix over-indexes in HBO homes and HBO over-indexes in Netflix homes.
So these are not -- these are very complementary things.
On the churn side churn is certainly kind of restrained and improved by strong programming at HBO.
But the churn dynamic for any pay TV service that flows on top of basic packages has a lot more to do with what the distributors are doing in terms of price offers vigorousness of -- vigor of marketing and so forth not that much to do with programming.
But having said that HBO has the lowest churn of any premium service.
Our next question comes from Dan [ph] Swinburne for Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I think that's me.
I guess is that me? I have 2 questions one housekeeping just on the advertising.
John what was the actual domestic international year-over-year growth rates or declines at Networks this quarter? So in the first quarter I think I might have even said this we reported down 1%.
The movement of the NCAA Final Four from Q1 to Q2 probably cost us about 200 basis points.
And then all of the other sort of noise whether it's the network shutdowns the transfer of SI and Golf.com and FX was about another 200 basis points.
So overall organic ads were up call it around 3%.
And if you look at that between domestic and international domestic was up mid-single digits right around 5% and international was down mid-single digits right around 5%.
And internationally we saw particular strength in our entertainment properties which were up double digits with a very strong rebound in Latin America and that was more than offset by double-digit declines at news.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jeff I would love to hear your comments on some of the comments Richard Plepler made I think over the last couple of months about HBO potentially exploring kind of a broadband-only distribution plan with MVPDs.
Sort of how real is that in your mind? How big of an opportunity is that? And in particular why would you argue that's consistent with your 'TV Everywwhere' strategy at Time Warner overall? I'm not sure you have.
I mean we always look at opportunities to increase the distribution the availability of HBO.
And so I think Richard was speaking to that.
We have done for example that model in Scandinavia where you can buy HBO the traditional way on TV with HBO GO attached to it from a traditional video distributor there.
But because they don't have that many multi-pay subs over there basically we also offered it through broadband.
So if you then go to the United States I think you're asking about that.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
HBO has got 40 million HBO Cinemax subs here.
We are vigorously offering HBO GO through all our distributors.
If you then go and say well should we add it as a broadband-only service which you could do through facilities-based providers or you could do it through non-facilities-based providers which I think was the discussion Richard was having we have the rights to do it and we would do it if we thought it was in our economic best interest.
At this point we don't think it makes sense.
We don't think the target market is sufficiently large to be attractive at this point.
So what we're doing and it is working pretty well is we're working with the MVPDs to increase the penetration of HBO in a mutually beneficial way.
We're always going to keep evaluating it depending on the country and I think that's what Richard was talking about.
I think he's right to say it that way.
Our next question comes from Jessica Reif Cohen from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions 2 topics.
One is on SVOD.
You mentioned that this will be a strong year and I was just wondering I wondered if you could give us your current thoughts.
You've talked about it in the past.
And also how much of an opportunity do you think there is with Netflix moving away from Viacom? You guys have one of the biggest if not the biggest television library.
So that's the first question.
Oh so you're asking Jessica about SVOD outlook for 2013? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Like going forward? Good.
It's pretty good.
What we have said I'll try to remember all the things we've said publicly we have disclosed that we generated over $350 million in revenue from SVOD sales in 2012.
We think that's near the top of our competitive set and that does not include the revenue from the CW Network deal which is pretty significant.
As we look at this year we feel very good.
We've got some deals we've already done.
We have a number of agreements that we did last year that have ongoing components.
We've recently signed additional deals with both Amazon and Netflix and we did that both at Warner's and at Turner.
We're in active negotiations with all the major players including those buyer.
So we think it'll be a significant revenue stream for us again this year and it may well grow this year.
But we do want to keep it in perspective.
It's a small percentage of our revenue.
It's only around 10% of our TV syndication revenue last year and we -- it's about 3% of total Film and TV.
So hopefully it'll grow.
While -- I want another point which is take the biggest SVOD buyer outside of HBO which is the biggest.
Netflix on the new basis it's getting more selective what Netflix is trying to buy and we thought that would happen.
We think it's a good trend for us.
I think what'll happen with SVOD providers' broadband is they're going to focus more on current content especially back seasons of series that are currently on the air and some select high-value library series.
We have not done -- or we've got the biggest supply in all those categories.
We haven't done kind of general deals that require people to take less desired series.
So we think we're in a catbird seat from that point of view with all the SVOD buyers.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a completely different topic.
On CNN can you talk a little bit -- you made a lot of changes and continue to make changes but what is the upside over the next couple of years with ratings improvement? Are the affiliate contracts from the same cycle as the Turner's or the Turner networks? Yes they are.
The biggest upside is in affiliate improvement.
We think there's a lot of correction there.
There's certainly a lot you can do on the advertising side but let's focus on really the strength of CNN as it comes back here.
We think the new leadership is off to a great start.
We feel momentum in ratings.
If you look at April it's significant progress.
CNN is #2 HLN is #3.
If you look at online we had our highest day in history just last month.
You can see as you just looked at what happened in Boston last week and we keep all us are saying this over and over whenever there's a global news item of interest CNN is the first place to go.
We're getting better all the time in extending that and covering it in all its dimensions.
So we have said as having said that that CNN can't just mean politics and wars.
And we're -- we will cover those but we don't need to start a war to have a success at CNN.
We do need to be more competitive in the mornings.
We're working on that.
I think you can see the focus on some of our broadening of what we're doing in the hires of Chris Cuomo Jake Tapper and Rachel Nichols.
You can see it in the success of Anthony Bourdain.
And so we think -- because remember more people tune in to CNN than any other news channel and the issue is how long do they tune in.
We're making strides on the length of time that people watch CNN as we really basically deepen the program.
And just a quick amplification too.
Looking at the second quarter I talked a little bit about ad revenues strengthening.
We are seeing improvements in the news category both domestically and internationally in Q2.
So that's also encouraging.
Our next question comes from Michael Morris from Davenport &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> First just following up on that question of news.
And the news ratings not just for CNN but some of your competitors' have been down pretty significantly so far this year.
Now I'm curious where do you think that audience is going? And hopefully I mean that does kind of tie into the comments you just made about the new programming.
But I guess I want to get a little better understanding of why you feel certain that that opportunity is there where those people are going and how you're -- where you're winning them back from.
Then I have a follow-up.
So remember -- okay the reason is it's really what -- it's in your question.
You have -- see the ratings were down at all the news networks.
The number of people tuning in was not down.
And so what you have is a variation in either the sense of urgency people have around the country or the world as to whether they want to watch news coverage or if there's something happening of great interest to them.
And then secondly you have the question of whether news channels are delivering the kind of coverage that would motivate people to stay.
So it's not an issue of reach.
It's not an issue of whether people are showing up and are interested in the news.
It's really a question of whether the programming is engaging and whether what the news is is drawing audiences.
We have seen Fox as one of our competitors moving more to the extreme and NBC doing -- and MSNBC doing the same thing on the other side.
We think that's a huge opportunity for us.
And because we have more people tuning in to us than either of them do we think that if we just do a job on finding the news and the coverage that satisfies them that they find relevance to stay for a little longer than just getting the headlines that we have a great upside.
And I would add one thing which is the world the media world the press world covers very intensely all the developments in online or digital that are relatively they think small but portend the future.
CNN's digital and online business is the biggest one out there.
It ought to get more attention.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then also on the international side on Turner International I think you made a management change about a year ago right now.
Can you talk a little bit about the progress there in terms of strategy both any markets that you're focused on or increasingly focused on? And also whether -- is news a focus? Is more entertainment content a focus? Just any update there will be helpful.
Okay there you're referring to Gerhard Zeiler who's the CEO of Turner International.
First thing I would say is we're coordinating more and we have more positions of strength between Turner HBO and Warner's in various places overseas where we've concentrated particularly in Latin America.
Secondly I think we've said now many times and we're pretty much on track that our international business is on track to make $1 billion in operating earnings in the next few years.
It'll be either '14 or '15 that we hit that.
Some of the change if you're asking for specifics has been the cleaning up of efforts that didn't work like in India and Turkey.
And a lot of the rest of the changes essentially focus on the places where we've been churning along.
I think it's important to point out that the margins overseas -- we're usually the leading share player on the multichannel side where we're competing and our margins overall are still in the 20s.
They have improved 500 or 600 basis points on an underlying basis over the last couple of years if you leave out shutdowns.
And so there's kind of a -- we all know there's a growing multichannel market out there.
We've got tremendous position in distribution.
We have channels from Turner to HBO to Warner that make a nice package.
And you have basically an opportunity cause these are scale operations of raising margins pretty rapidly because we're in that phase of growth in Latin America Eastern Europe and Asia.
So that's basically the outlook.
It's pretty strong.
Just one further thing Michael specific to next quarter and then this year.
We do anticipate our international network ratings at Turner to begin to improve in the second quarter.
So I think Q1 will probably be the low watermark for the year.
And then because of the restructuring initiatives that have already been put in place we think that the profit growth internationally at Turner this year is going to be really really substantial and we're going to experience meaningful margin expansion in '13.
Our next question comes from Anthony DiClemente from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions.
At the Film and TV segment John you called out EST growth as 60%.
Wondering as you look at your new home video releases like Hobbit or Argo what percentage of units sold for a property like that these days are digital versus physical? It seems like digital is accelerating.
Is that -- and what is that from? Is it distribution of EST platforms? Is it pricing? Is a tablet growth? And then second question there've been some talk out there about Turner carriage of the Final Four in your talks with CBS and the chance that that could move up.
I wonder if you could remind us strategically of the puts and takes there Your willingness to absorb a greater percentage of the licensing costs in order to perhaps strengthen your content portfolio ahead of your affiliate renewals.
Anthony I'll take the first one.
Yes I don't know title by title specifically the differential in EST versus traditional physical sales.
I mean something like The Hobbit frankly across all distribution methods exceeded our expectations.
If you look at EST in the quarter for us and we probably have the lead EST share across the industry we were up in the first quarter 20% year-over-year and the overall EST revenues were north of $75 million.
If you look at EST and VOD which is another important form of digital distribution it was up significantly in the quarter and we approached -- we were north of $150 million close to -- approaching $200 million in the quarter.
And just a reminder if you add SVOD on to that if you add EST SVOD and VOD last year we were at $1 billion.
So those 3 forms are already big.
And frankly that's one of the reasons why you're seeing stabilization in the overall home entertainment market in general and it's one of the reasons why we're feeling more optimistic about the going-forward performance of the home entertainment business.
So I apologize I don't have the specifics for the newer titles.
Research Division</strong> And so the...
On the NCAA question we do have the option to start airing the Final Four next year and that does not involve any incremental payments from us.
So we have not made an announcement on that front yet but it's something we've been discussing with CBS.
So stay tuned.
Research Division</strong> And what would be the downside to doing that if there aren't any incremental costs or losses incurred? There would not be downside.
Our next question comes from Richard Greenfield from BTIG.
LLC Research Division</strong> When you look -- we love the HBO GO app especially because of the way it curates a deep catalog experience.
Yet when you look at apps like the Turner apps the content is significantly more limited and we've even seen you sell back episodes of things like Falling Skies to Amazon or Netflix.
I forget which off the top of my head.
But why not follow the HBO GO strategy with authentication to drive sub fees even higher when you force people to authenticate and really drive more usage of those apps? Basically what are differences in strategy between HBO GO and the Turner assets? And then if you could just touch on Cinemax seems like you've had a real progress over the course of the last 6 months.
You never really talk about Cinemax on your conference calls.
Can you just update us on how big it is today and how big it could be over the next couple of years? Yes thanks Rick.
Let's start with Cinemax first.
So Cinemax subs have been growing well in America and overseas.
Cinemax original programming is a new genre over the last year or so.
You have Strike Back Hunted Banshee.
I watch them all.
If any of you on the call have not seen every episode of all of those shows go home -- well don't go home just turn your iPads right now and watch them all.
You take the rest of the day off.
They're really good.
If you're asking and I think it's a good question about what about a more robust offering of VOD rights for basic channels Turner or the -- ours but there's all the other ones owned by other companies I think it's a good question but you've said a lot when you mentioned the distributors.
Well what you have to do in basic is you have to try to figure out how to get the industry or if you're going to do something different have it work in a package of other channels.
So up to now we were the lead company.
We did it first of putting at least 5 episodes of every series that we have on our Turner networks up there for free to subscribers on VOD and on broadband availability.
We haven't been acquiring the back season rights.
If you me for stacks of full seasons for the TV offering yes.
It's a big question because we're not really able to monetize them through carriage fees.
If you take a show and put it on right now it's not easy to get monetization whereas if you're selling kind of library serialized and I can't think of a series to an SVOD provider you can get monetized.
And most are the natural places for consumers to find those shows and look deeply as 10 20 30 episodes.
So kind of a video on-demand is the best way to watch serialized series.
It can be VOD as it is on HBO as it could be on TNT but it's essentially a model that has to evolve.
So we're keeping an eye on the balance of how to make all of these networks TBS TNT truTV along with HBO stronger and be things that viewers know they can go there and watch their favorite series and whichever episode of that.
It's easy to do in pay TV as you saw actually us do with all our shows on HBO than it is on basic.
LLC Research Division</strong> And Jeff or John is there any way to just quantify what percentage or even like the size of Cinemax in the portfolio relative to HBO just as it keeps growing? It seemed like a big opportunity that -- trying to get my arms around that size potential.
Domestically I think we ended 2012 with about 41 million HBO Cinemax subs.
We don't break out the specific numbers but HBO generally has twice the number of Cinemax.
Cinemax just to echo what Jeff said has been growing very very healthily.
And then outside the U.S.
I don't even know how many we have.
I mean if -- it's -- we have 71-plus million HBO Cinemax subs outside of the U.S.
they grew like 35% last year a big chunk of that growth was Cinemax particularly in Latin America.
I just want to clear we -- in domestic we -- the relation HBO to Cinemax well we don't -- it's more than 2x HBO.
HBO has a bigger share than Max.
Our next question comes from Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at The WB the TV studio business are you seeing any change in demand for more the traditional syndicated programming domestically as more networks are focusing on original programming? And if so maybe that's more than offset by international demand.
And then just a second question just to follow up on your earlier comments on the SVOD business that you made I -- is there a way you can sort of quantify how big of an opportunity there is for potential revenues outside of Netflix if Netflix were to really pull back on the syndication programming? All right so you're asking about demand in syndication first or -- is that what you're asking? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just demand by...
Increased demand by regular syndicated buyers? Research Division</strong> Exactly.
Okay.
It's up for A titles and it's up around the world as well.
So it's a very strong market for A titles.
The B titles are tending to go more and more to either some cable or some SVOD players.
And it's not a divide as we've said many times between serialized things versus non-serialized things.
The serialized are of more use to subscription VOD players.
What was the other question? On SVOD? SVOD.
Yes I mean look...
[Indiscernible].
Yes we've been doing deals with other SVOD providers outside of Netflix actually all along.
And if you just look at the first quarter about 30% to 35% of the deals that we did that we recognized and revenue were non-Netflix and a considerable portion of those are outside the U.S.
And so I just want to also reiterate and repeat what Jeff said a little bit to your earlier -- to an earlier question because I think your question somewhat assumes that we have a lot of risk should Netflix pull back and change its buying patterns.
We don't really see that.
And as Jeff said a little bit earlier we haven't really sold these huge blanket library deals perhaps as some of our -- other media companies have had.
So we think if to the extent that a Netflix or frankly all of SVOD providers become more selective we've got the best shows that we think demand is going to go up.
Research Division</strong> So that $350 million that you saw last year that could potentially grow this year in 2013? Yes.
Yes.
I mean yes.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Michael Nathanson from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I have one for John and one for Jeff.
John can you give just me some help? On programming cost growth I know the shutdowns of the networks internationally have helped you.
What is -- what are the like-for-like programming international [ph] growth be in the first quarter? And when you gave your guidance for the full year how are you factoring in the shutdown within your guidance? Well if you look at programming costs which were basically essentially flat in the quarter I think they were down 1% they were lower than they ordinarily would be for really 3 reasons: it's the NCAA shutdown -- or excuse me the NCAA move from Q1 to Q2; it was also the shutdowns as you said; and it was also we had a pretty big write-off for a series at HBO last year.
So on a normalized basis programming costs would have been call it mid-single digits which is consistent with our plans to grow programming mid- to high single digits over time.
And I think even said that in my proactive remarks in 2013 that's the expectation.
But I just want to remind everybody that that does include significant investments in original programming and sports.
So in other words we're already factoring that into the mid- to high single-digit outlook and because we know that we've got several components of programming expenses that are growing more slowly than that are either flat or low single digits.
So we do expect overall programming costs to increase but we think they're going to be at a very measured and controlled pace.
And obviously beyond programming costs we are looking to restrain growth in all non-revenue-generating expenses and you saw that again and again this quarter so.
Research Division</strong> And John that's on a reported basis.
Your guidance as reported mid-single-digit programming expense growth? Correct on a [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And Jeff can you just go back to...
And so Michael just to qualify it's going to -- basic -- over an annual period it's going to basically be about the same reported and normalized.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Jeff the last question is about the value of A titles going up in the world [ph] and that's totally true.
But the question I had though as as a buyer of syndicated content at Turner does your definition of A titles change over time? Like what was considered an A title 2 years ago? [Indiscernible] do you believe now [indiscernible] anything about that? [Indiscernible] So company A titles let's take Two and a Half Men.
I mean Two and a Half Men Big Bang -- Two and a Half is on Fox Big Bang is on FX Big Bang is on TBS.
Clearly extremely successful and valuable holding up well on whichever networks they go to.
So that's a very healthy ecosystem.
It's a very good part of your programming mix for our basic channel.
That's comedy.
So as we know they've been resilient for decades.
Dramas are kind of interesting.
It's a bigger field.
We certainly think titles like Mentalist Hawaii Five-0 are A titles.
There are plenty of buyers for them.
The question that's going to emerge over time is that as cable networks TNT USA FX et cetera move into drama production it started at HBO now everyone's doing it you end up with a kind of a continuum of successful cable originals that depending on the kind of niche appeal of a show on AMC versus a show on TNT et cetera that then starts to proliferate production into those cable-hour drama originals.
It's -- then you still have the power and value of hit hours that come off of the big networks like Mentalist like NCIS but the relative performance of those kind of off-network-hour drama hits still A titles may change just because you have more and more kind of fragmentation and focused appeal of cable hours.
So it's a moving spectrum.
We feel very happy about our position at Warner's as the biggest producer and seller of those across the 5 broadcast networks.
So we have a lot of them to put into syndication or cable networks or SVOD.
And then on the Turner side we have such an advantaged schedule of kind of -- we've got a very healthy schedule of both originals and acquired.
We have great access to acquired hits.
So as we figure out what the optimal mix of acquired dramas is versus cable original produced dramas we're going to be able to dial it up and down on both sides.
So that's essentially how we see it.
And we've got a pretty good position and flexibility.
Our last question comes from Michael Senno from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones if I could.
One in terms of international if you were to look at any M&amp;A opportunities would you provide some context on what attributes what type of assets you may be looking at and what areas of the globe you're interested in complementing the current portfolio? And then second just in terms of Time Warner being one of the more aggressive TV Everywhere early adopters do you think a virtual MSO is the catalyst that's needed to really accelerate the adoption of TV Everywhere in its ultimate form? No to that question but we don't have theological views about it.
On your international first question we've said this a lot.
And certainly we can remember that.
I'm not sure you should.
But the areas that we focused on are ones where we think there are -- there is basically high secular growth both in the underlying economies and in the video habits of the population; and then secondly where there is reasonably hospitable rule of law and acceptance of nonlocal media network operators full-on ownership.
So basically what we've said and still say is let's ask America Central America that's all of Latin America it's been a very strong market for us.
We have the leading network position of any nonlocal broadcaster network operator across all of Latin America.
We've said Eastern Europe -- and while the Eastern Europe economic macro situation is a bit difficult we've got an interesting position at CME that we're optimistic about and we're in the midst of helping to strengthen the financial resources of CME.
So we think that's going to be a great long-term network across numerous countries in Eastern Europe.
And we think Eastern Asia -- we think Asia South Asia and Southeast Asia where we've got a lot of -- we're #1 actually in all of our HBO territories including the Asian ones and we've got some good positions with our Turner networks there we think that's the other obvious growth area so we're going to put more emphasis there.
Well that's it.
Thank you very much for listening in.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Time Warner Inc.
Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
My name is Dawn and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Doug Shapiro Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at Time Warner.
Mr.
Shapiro you may begin.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
This morning we issued 2 press releases 1 detailing our results for the second quarter and the other raising our 2013 business outlook.
Before we begin there are a few things I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our site.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and the subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
And lastly in the second quarter we began accounting for investment in Central European Media Enterprises as an equity investment.
Due to the accounting rules we have recast our historical financials as though we had accounted for it as an equity investment since we first invested in CME in May 2009.
Because CME has historically produced net losses this accounting change reduced full year 2012 adjusted EPS by $0.04 and our first quarter 2013 adjusted EPS by $0.06.
In the second quarter the impact was a $0.02 reduction.
Thank you and let me turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks Doug.
This was another really successful quarter for us financially and operationally.
It puts us in great position to post another year of strong growth in 2013 and beyond.
In the second quarter we grew revenue of 10% we grew adjusted operating income 25% and we increased adjusted earnings per share almost 50%.
During the first half of the year we also generated $1.8 billion in free cash flow.
That's triple the amount we generated in the first half of last year.
And over the last few months we bought back almost another $1 billion worth of our stock.
This morning we also increased our guidance for adjusted EPS growth this year.
That's a reflection of our performance in the first half and our confidence about how we're positioned for the rest of the year.
John will discuss our financial results and outlook in detail in a few minutes.
I'd like to point out some of our key operational highlights this quarter starting with the networks.
At Turner we saw a continuing evidence of the growing value of our brands and programming to our viewers our advertisers and our affiliates.
TNT and TBS finished the quarter as the #1 and the #3 networks in prime time for adults 18 to 49 on all of cable.
At TNT the story again was sports and originals.
The NBA playoffs on TNT were the third most viewed in the 29-year history of the NBA on Turner outdelivering all networks broadcast and cable among adults 18 to 49 during May sweeps.
And Game 7 of the Eastern Conference Finals was the highest-rating NBA game on TNT ever.
As you know we're steadily increasing the amount of original programming on TNT and we're airing originals year round.
We had about double the number of original hours in prime time this quarter compared to last year and it's paying off led by shows like Falling Skies Rizzoli &amp; Isles Major Crimes and Dallas.
Ratings on our prime time originals during the quarter more than doubled compared to the same period last year.
At TBS The Big Bang Theory was again the #1 sitcom on cable and Cougar Town was the #1 original sitcom on cable.
In fact our original programming on TBS was up over 50% compared to our originals in the second quarter last year.
As you know we've recently made a number of changes at CNN and we're seeing real progress.
This quarter CNN was up almost 70% in its key demo during total day while both of its cable news competitors were down.
In fact CNN surpassed MSNBC to finish as the #2 network of the quarter in both total viewers and adults 25 to 54 for the first time in almost 4 years.
That was partially driven by a high volume of breaking news events but we saw strength across almost every daypart and every show even away from breaking news coverage.
For instance in June CNN's new morning show New Day was up over 50% in the key demo over last year and Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown is an unqualified hit.
Our brands and programming are resonating with our advertisers too.
We just completed negotiations for the 2013 to '14 upfront and our portfolio of entertainment-oriented networks TBS TNT truTV and Adult Swim obtained CPM increases in the high single-digits.
Once again that was at the high-end of the range for all TV networks broadcast and cable.
Our affiliates also recognize the value of our networks.
As you may recall last year at this time we first told you that we expect Turner's domestic subscription revenue to grow at double-digit CAGR between 2013 and 2016.
Last month we completed a contract renewal with a top 5 distributor and got the affiliate fee increases we were seeking.
This gives us even more confidence that we'll achieve our long-range targets.
At HBO our programming lineup is as strong as it's ever been which is saying a lot.
Game of Thrones finished its third season with an average of 14 million viewers per episode.
That's up more than 20% from last year and firmly establishes it as the second most popular series ever on HBO.
True Blood recently launched its sixth season and is averaging over 10 million viewers per episode.
And in its second season The Newsroom is averaging 7 million to 8 million viewers.
Last but not least our made-for-HBO movie Behind the Candelabra starring Michael Douglas and Matt Damon was the most-watched HBO film in 10 years.
And HBO received 108 Primetime Emmy nominations this year.
That's the most of any network for the 13th consecutive year and it's more than double the nearest competitor.
It's also the most that HBO has received in 9 years.
That included nominations for Outstanding Drama Series for Game of Thrones Outstanding Comedy Series for both Girls and VEEP and Outstanding Miniseries Or Movie for Behind the Candelabra and for Phil Spector.
We intend to build on this success.
HBO remains the port of first call for distinctive-airing television.
And right now we have more pilots in development at HBO than in any time in its history including projects for Mike Judge Damon Lindelof David Milch and Ryan Murphy among others.
We also had a fantastic quarter at Warner Bros.
Warner Bros.
TV wrapped up one of its most successful upfront seasons ever.
It received orders for 31 shows on the 5 broadcast networks for next season including 18 that are returning shows and 13 new shows.
That's the highest number of total orders in years and it's the most returning shows in over 30 years.
Importantly we have orders for 10 comedies which as you know have the greatest potential value in syndication.
We also had a really strong theatrical quarter led by the performance of Man of Steel and The Great Gatsby.
Notably Man of Steel our Superman reboot is on track to generate almost $700 million at the worldwide box office.
That's obviously a great start to the franchise.
A few weeks ago we revealed exciting plans for a Man of Steel sequel that will bring together Superman and Batman which is scheduled for 2015.
We have a lot more plans for DC that we look forward to sharing when the time is right.
Looking out into the third quarter and through the rest of this year.
The Conjuring is well exceeding our forecast.
It's on track to reach $130 million at the box office domestically putting it among the top 5 horror films of all time.
We're optimistic that We're The Millers starring Jennifer Aniston and Jason Sudeikis and opening tonight has the makings of a sleeper hit.
And we're particularly excited about our biggest remaining release of the year The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug.
I want to touch on some significant personnel changes we announced recently.
After leading Turner Broadcasting to great success for over a decade Phil Kent recently approached me with a decision not to renew his contract after it expires next year.
I'm very excited that John Martin has agreed to take on the CEO role at Turner starting January 1.
We'll miss John's leadership here at corporate but he'll been in an even better position to drive Time Warner's success from that seat.
Howard Averill current CFO of Time Inc.
will move over to Time Warner to replace John.
Howard has been a steady hand during a period of tremendous change at Time Inc.
and I'm confident he'll prove a great addition to the senior management team at Time Warner.
We also announced that Joe Ripp a veteran of Time Warner and an accomplished media executive will return to lead Time Inc.
as CEO.
Having someone of Joe's caliber in place is a key component of our plan to spin off Time Inc.
into an independent publicly traded company.
I'll also update you on the timing of the Time Inc.
spend.
Our top priority in the spinoff is to make sure that we put Time Inc.
in the best possible position to succeed.
So rather than rush to complete the transaction this year we've decided that it's prudent to give Joe some time to further refine Time Inc.'s strategic direction and as a result we now expect to complete the spinoff early next year.
So in closing with more than half the year behind us we're very proud of what we've achieved.
We're also very confident of how we're positioned both for 2013 and the years to come.
With that I'll pass it to John.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide which is now available on our website and starting with our consolidated results.
We're halfway through the year and we couldn't be more pleased with our performance to date.
We've delivered strong results in the first quarter and even stronger results this quarter.
In fact through the first half of the year our adjusted operating income is up 15% and we've grown adjusted earnings per share by almost 30% year-over-year.
That's a result of healthy underlying trends across nearly all of our businesses.
In the second quarter our revenues grew 10% and that included a nearly 200 basis-point drag from our Publishing division.
We had a terrific quarter at Networks which posted its highest quarterly revenues and profits ever.
And company-wide international revenues grew almost 20% in the quarter.
Adjusted operating income grew 25% making it our highest second quarter ever for profits.
Margins expanded over 230 basis points and that included margin expansion at each of our reporting segments.
And that's despite double-digit growth in programming production and marketing expenses which we were able to offset partially by reducing other cost of revenues and other SG&amp;A expenses.
And this discipline has allowed us to produce very strong financial results even while we're investing aggressively for the future.
Continuing to move down to P&amp;L.
Adjusted EPS grew even faster than adjusted operating income climbing 46%.
And that's the 12th time in the last 15 quarters that adjusted EPS has grown double digits along with our strong operating performance that was helped by a lower effective tax rate and our ongoing allocation of capital to share repurchases.
Since we last reported earnings we've repurchased almost $1 billion of common stock which is an acceleration from the first quarter and we also paid over $270 million in dividends.
So year-to-date we returned almost $2.4 billion to shareholders including more than $1.8 billion in share repurchases and $500 million in dividends.
And as Jeff mentioned in light of this strong performance and our confidence of our ability to execute in the back half of the year we're raising our 2013 full year business outlook for adjusted EPS and we now expect growth to be in the mid-teens year-over-year.
Let me now turn to the specific segment highlights and let me begin at our Networks segment where each of HBO and Turner grew adjusted operating income double-digits.
Advertising revenues were up 11% year-over-year and that's our highest quarterly growth rate in 2 years.
And please recall that we benefited from the timing of the Final Four this quarter.
But if you look through that domestic ad growth was also around 11%.
And that includes solid growth across all of our categories.
That's domestic entertainment that's kids and that's news.
International advertising declined in the low single-digits but without the prior year closure of TNT Turkey and the impact of foreign currency movements it would have been up mid single-digits.
And that was a result of mid-teens growth at international entertainment which was partially offset by declines at international news.
Looking ahead to the third quarter we continue to see very solid trends here with scatter pricing up double digits over the upfront.
So as of now we anticipate mid to high single-digit growth in total Networks advertising in Q3.
Moving on.
Subscription revenue growth was 4% in the quarter which was relatively consistent with the mid single-digit growth that we saw in the first quarter.
This quarter the mix of subscribers at HBO and a stronger U.S.
dollar both somewhat weighed on Subscription revenue growth.
And as we look ahead to the rest of the year we continue to believe that Subscription revenue growth will be up mid single-digits.
And as Jeff mentioned with Turner recently securing a new deal with a top 5 distributor we have even more confidence that we'll see significant acceleration in Subscription revenues beginning in 2014.
Adjusted operating income at the Networks segment was up a very strong 13% in the quarter with margins increasing almost 180 basis points year-over-year.
And please note that growth this quarter did benefit from an adjustment through a receivable allowance but even without that adjusted operating income would still have been up double digits.
And that reflects both of the revenue growth as well as our ongoing focus on constricting non-programming costs as programming expenses increased 8% in the quarter.
So in the first half programming expenses at the Networks were up 4% which is consistent with our expectation of in any given year programming expenses being up mid to high single-digits.
Looking ahead we continue to anticipate margins are going to be up here at this group for the year.
And that's despite continued growth in our programming investments.
So 2013 should be another very very strong year for the Networks segment.
And we're positioning ourselves to grow at attractive levels for the foreseeable future here.
So now let me turn to our Film and TV production group at Warner's which had another really terrific quarter with revenues up 13% and adjusted operating income up 34%.
The increase in adjusted operating income was largely driven by the strong performance of our Film slate.
And that included films such as Man of Steel The Great Gatsby and The Hangover Part III.
In Television we faced a very difficult comparison against the domestic syndication sale of The Mentalist in the year-ago quarter.
And despite this difficult comparison the underlying trends remain really strong here.
In addition to the really successful upfront season that Jeff described we also saw higher international license fees and very healthy demand for our television product from SVOD services both domestic and international.
We recognize just under $70 million in SVOD revenue at Warner's in the second quarter and that's up significantly from a year ago.
And if you look at Time Warner we've recognized now year-to-date about $150 million of SVOD revenues.
And we continue to expect that SVOD distribution channel will be a strong contributor to our results this year.
Across theatrical and TV Warner's Home Entertainment revenue was up 3% in the quarter.
And while the industry was down slightly in the quarter it grew modestly for the first half of 2013.
And we're particularly encouraged by the growth in the electronics sell-through area which was up over 50% for the industry in the first half.
And while there's still work to do on improving the consumer experience here we think it's a very positive sign for the future of the Home Entertainment business.
Looking ahead we expect second half results to be strongly weighted to the fourth quarter at Warner Bros.
In the third quarter we face very tough comparisons against last year's theatrical release of The Dark Knight Rises.
In addition we anticipate recognizing SVOD revenues from certain CW availabilities in the fourth quarter of this year versus recognizing them in the third quarter of 2012.
And while we've already released the majority of our larger movies this year we're optimistic about the rest of this year's theatrical release slate.
And We're the Millers which opens this evening is a particularly funny film.
Similarly we feel very good about our position going into the new TV season due to Warner Bros.' industry-leading performance during this year's upfront.
And we have very very high hopes for the fourth quarter games release including Batman: Arkham Origins.
So we remain confident that Warner Bros.
profits this year should be at least as good if not better than what they were last year.
And we've been saying that now for some time.
Let me move on to Publishing.
At Time Inc.
advertising revenues were down 5% in the quarter and that was due to declines both here as well as outside the U.S.
Domestically we saw softness at the sports and news groups.
We also finally lapped the transfer of SI.com and Golf.com back to Time Inc.
which contributed to advertising trends appearing somewhat worse than what they were in the first quarter.
Subscription revenue fell 7% in the second quarter as we continue to see softness in newsstand sales.
And looking to the back half of the year we expect the decline in Subscription revenue to look somewhat similar to what we experienced in the first half of the year.
But note that we will see some shift of Subscription revenue to the third quarter from the fourth quarter due to the frequency of certain titles in each quarter.
Despite lower revenues adjusted operating income was up a pretty strong 28% in the quarter.
And that was primarily a function of cost savings initiatives including the restructuring actions that were taken earlier this year.
As we look to the rest of 2013 our comparisons as compared to last year become somewhat more challenging.
So while we remain focused on cost controls at Time Inc.
we don't expect that will be sufficient to offset revenue declines in the back half of this year.
Now let me turn to the next slide which looks at our full year 2013 business outlook.
As I just said we had a great first half of the year.
And that's given us a tremendous amount of confidence to raise our full year 2013 outlook to mid-teens growth in adjusted EPS.
And despite higher losses from our investment in CME than we originally anticipated at the beginning of the year the absolute numbers implied by our new current guidance are nicely higher than our previous outlook.
Clearly our updated outlook implies that growth will slow somewhat in the back half of this year.
And that's the result of difficult comparisons particularly at our Film and TV and Publishing segments.
And this is consistent with what we expected coming into this year and it certainly doesn't suggest any change to the health of the businesses.
I'll also point out that our effective tax rate was a bit lower in the first half than we normally anticipate as a result of settling a couple of audits with taxing authorities.
And excluding those settlements our effective tax rate would have been somewhere in the mid-30s which is more in line with our longer-term expectations.
So we feel good about raising guidance.
We feel good about our performance.
And we believe that we are set up for both a very good year and continued attractive growth in the longer term.
Let me now turn to cash free cash.
We're having a big year for free cash flow generation.
We've generated through the first 6 months of the year $1.8 billion of free cash flow.
That's more than triple the year-ago period.
And that's mostly due to an improvement in working capital which we expected and the strong growth of profits which I've been just discussing.
Capital expenditures and cash taxes are also lower year-to-date.
The favorable working capital variance accounted for more than 1/2 of the improvement in free cash flow year-to-date.
And the biggest drivers there were reimbursements for prior co-financings and the timing of payments for sports programming at Networks.
The decline in cash taxes was primarily a result of tax law extenders that were passed by Congress in January this year.
So with our solid performance through the first half of the year we're on track for a really really strong year of free cash flow generation in 2013.
Turning now to the final slide which looks at our net debt.
We ended the quarter with a little less than $17.4 billion in net debt.
That's up about $350 million from year-end 2012.
And that's largely due to the almost $2.1 billion of capital we allocated in the form of dividends and share repurchases in the first half.
Providing stockholder returns remains a critical component of our capital plan.
And as you can see the amount of capital we've returned well exceeds the free cash flow we've generated year-to-date.
That's consistent with how we've been allocating capital for a number of years now.
And since 2008 we've generated about $13 billion in free cash flow.
And over that same time period we've repurchased almost $13 billion of stock or almost 30% of our float and at the same time we paid more than $4 billion in dividends.
So our leverage ratio is now only 2.3x which is a little bit below our target of 2.5x.
And we still think that our target leverage ratio of 2.5x strikes the right balance of maintaining a balance sheet strength while giving us the flexibility to invest in our core businesses make acquisitions and return capital to our stockholders.
So we'll continue to manage the balance sheet to stay close to that target over the course of the year.
And with that let me turn the call back to Doug so that we can begin the Q&amp;A portion.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Dawn let's get the Q&amp;A started.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My question is just on the affiliate renewals that are upcoming.
The one you referenced to having signed last month I believe I assume that kicks in in 2014 and not right away.
And then just staying on that topic the real positive move you've seen in ratings at CNN recently is that -- do you expect -- I guess the timing of that is real good given your upcoming renewals or ongoing renewals.
Do you expect as much sort of upside opportunity at CNN as you would at TNT in these renewals given the addition of the NCAA? Alexia it's John.
I just -- with regard to the affiliate renewals we're really not going to speak specifically.
We have nondisclosure agreements with regard to the specific deals and -- but what was important and the reason why we felt like it was relevant to mention on the call is because going back to a year ago when we said we expected double-digit compound annual growth for the 3-year period ended 2016 we said that during the middle of this year we were going to begin what was the most ambitious rate renewal cycle that the company had experienced in years.
So this was the first big deal that we were entered into and we successfully completed it and the construction surrounding the agreement where quite constructive.
So it not only bolsters our confidence in our ability to get that and those rates will kick in in the not-too-distant future.
As we've said before just to repeat the domestic Sub revenue should grow double-digit compound annual growth from '13 to '16.
And the only other thing I would mention is that the way that the increases should come in over time over those 3 years is that we're going to see the biggest impact in terms of growth in 2016.
So beginning next year we absolutely expect to see an acceleration in Turner's domestic affiliate rates off of current year levels.
And if I was going to forecast right now I would say that it will probably be close to double digits.
In '15 it will probably moderate somewhat and then in '16 you'll see the biggest overall growth rates.
So that over the 3-year period you get to the double-digit period -- double-digit rates excuse me.
Alexia were you asking something about CNN rating? Research Division</strong> Yes I know that they -- I think there is a bigger opportunity it sounds like in terms of the potential to move up in rates at probably TNT.
I was just saying that with the incredible turnaround you're seeing at CNN more recently do you think there's also an opportunity there? On CPM rates? Research Division</strong> No on the renewals yes the renewals.
Absolutely.
And I think John said it well.
We're not -- we do our affiliate rate renewals across our networks.
And so the strength of CNN which as we have said and we certainly believe it it's essentially worth a lot more in affiliate rates than the current rate that it's getting.
And it's not just a function of ratings.
As we mentioned in the call the ratings are up 50% in total day and we're taking share.
But the ratings have moved around.
That's really not the only thing.
It's actually not even the main thing.
It's simply the role of in-depth trustworthy nonpartisan global news that CNN fills.
And the strength of CNN in online and mobile broadband delivery which is the #1 source to go to for that whether it's breaking news or not and certainly during breaking news.
So it's very valuable.
We think everything at CNN is on the uptick.
Really the quality of what it's doing and also both the ad rates and the affiliate rates.
Our next question comes from Doug Mitchelson from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A further clarification on the Turner affiliate renewal cycle John.
It's obviously encouraging you signed a deal with a top 5 operator.
I understand the reticence on giving too much detail but could you tell us are there other meaningful deals that you'll strike around this year end that will bolster confidence in the renewal cycle further? Or should we look to 2014 for the next piece of news on that? And the question for Jeff just curious your updated thoughts around online video distribution.
Disney and Fox decided that Hulu was an interesting business to own.
Do you see the appeal and value of having direct-to-consumer online video retail business? Or is remaining an independent wholesaler the right strategy? And to the extent the answer is different for international versus U.S.
I would love to hear about that.
So Doug I'll start.
I think this answer's going to be pretty short.
So yes we've got some negotiations and deals that come up for renewal before the end of this year.
Some of them are big distributors.
But having said that we're not going to see the impact of those deals kick in in 2013 which is why I'd said that we're not really going to expect to see anything in terms of the overall affiliate growth until 2014.
But yes I mean we've kicked off the cycle so to speak in terms of affiliate deals.
And we've got a number of them coming up before the end of the year.
But as I said just at the risk of repeating myself we feel good about the hand we've got we feel good about the value that the networks have with respect to affiliates and consumers.
And we have every confidence that we're going to succeed in what we're trying to do.
Doug on your question I think it's a good question.
Look it's for Disney News Corp.
and NBC to talk about what they're doing with Hulu and why.
But having said that I think our view of what they're doing and it makes sense to us is more about supporting the value of their networks and their programming across platforms than it is particularly about the discrete business of broadband-only delivery at Hulu.
I think those things can be complementary and I think they're searching to get there.
It seems like a good decision.
What we're doing and to answer your question we think that the best place for us for now is essentially emphasizing the very large wholesale networks and the packages over both the video plan and increasingly the broadband plan.
Because as you know we've been very -- well we've said it over and over again.
We think the move of television to an on-demand service on television and on broadband devices is a major move to support the value of TV networks TV programs.
We think it's huge.
We see it all over the world.
And as we look at the ways that we're going to distribute our shows and our networks across the world we essentially try to optimize the distribution opportunity in whichever country.
In the United States it's a very powerful penetration of the giant packages of TV networks.
In certain other countries there are times when you're actually better off going really broadband-delivered.
We did it recently in the Nordic countries.
But it's this kind of a case-by-case thing at this point.
I think it will all converge.
And the key point I think is not which platform it's essentially getting everything to be VOD with an interface that consumers love.
And there should be deservedly and there is a lot of attention on the kind of excitement consumers and viewers have for on-demand programming.
Some of it from broadband-delivered sources but most of it from television network sources that are becoming on-demand programs and networks like HBO which I think is probably the leader across the world in delivering the largest package of on-demand programming in all -- well all the hemisphere.
There's just 2 hemispheres.
We're thinking of a third hemisphere but we haven't gone there yet.
Our next question comes from Michael Morris from Davenport &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two topics.
First is on à la carte or unbundling of networks.
I think most of us have assumed it's a bit of a nonstarter as long as the content companies and your distribution partners were both against the concept of unbundling the pay TV package.
But in the last few days you've had more commentary from Cablevision.
Time Warner Cable offering to CBS to go à la carte.
So I guess my question is -- or are number one do you see this as an actual shift and increasing the likelihood that we would move to à la carte or how something like that would happen? And how do you view your network's position would it -- does it change your strategy at all or do you like your positioning regardless of how that plays out? And then I have one on HBO.
Okay.
We don't think it results a big change yet.
And we do think we're very well-positioned.
If there is a chance I don't think it goes to à la carte.
We think it probably would move if it does to smaller bundles of kind of appropriately placed together kinds of networks.
We do think we'd be really well-positioned in that scenario.
What would happen is there would be more money for the biggest networks like ours.
And in fact of all the programming groups out there Turner Time Warner has the highest proportion of our networks among the top 4.
And that's just on the Turner side.
If you add HBO it's more.
We'd also have the highest proportion of our affiliate fees from our biggest networks.
We have about 85% to 90% from our top 4 networks.
And those networks would be highly likely to be in any base package that anybody's going to create.
So we don't believe we'd be vulnerable.
It will probably actually increase our relative advantage.
It would be good for HBO because lower-priced packages would effectively make HBO even more affordable.
So that's how we look at it.
We doubt that it will happen but if it happens it probably helps us.
We do think there would be some of the weaker networks or weaker network groups that would fail which would reduce the diversity of voices out there.
It's not necessarily in the public interest.
We don't really think that many legislators have shown any desire to take up this issue.
And there's been a lot of misstatement and misinformation around it.
So that's why we don't think it's probably going to take off.
But if it does it will probably happen in a way that helps us.
You have a question on HBO? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
And just quickly John.
You mentioned the mix of HBO subs being a little bit of I guess maybe a drag sequentially from the first quarter on the affiliate growth rate.
My question is as you go into these negotiations we've been very focused on Turner but is there an opportunity to change the terms of HBO to perhaps get a bit more of the economics in the future? Yes let me answer it.
We don't think that's optimal for us.
We've been -- really the design of HBO affiliate rate structures are very much the -- our creation and very much in the interest of HBO.
And as -- due to the nature of them typically distributors that have been performing better are more likely to have a higher proportion of non-revenue-generating subs because they've got incentive to have more subs and average down there effective per sub rate because they have higher penetration.
That means we get a full ride on our rate increases which are fairly strong.
The poor-performing affiliates once they get below that benchmark as they lose subs they basically lose revenue-generating subs for us.
Of course they're also losing revenue-generating subs for themselves and their average rate goes up.
So we think it's the kind of an effective tool.
We focus on a combination of penetration from different distributors.
Remember satellite telco and cable distributors compete with each other in given geographic areas and we find this an effective tool to motivate or incentivize the appropriate competition between them to sell HBO.
And as you know HBO's the anchor service for all high-value packages.
There are no high-value packages out there that don't have HBO in them.
So we think it's working fine for us.
And the way to look at it essentially the earnings growth at HBO what we would do to improve it is we're always working with our affiliates.
We have some things underway right now which I won't talk about specifically because some affiliates are performing better than others that are going to essentially incentivize the underperforming affiliates to do better.
And that's upside for us.
Our next question comes from Anthony DiClemente from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the new affiliate deal and how that pertains to the NBA.
So I'm assuming or presumably the new affiliate deal extends beyond the 2016.
I don't know if you can confirm that but if we could assume that the duration of the new deal goes beyond the duration of your current NBA deal which I think ends in the middle of the 2016 season I guess my question is do the affiliates see NBA as being a must-have piece of content for Turner as part of that deal? And so does that really put the onus on you guys to renew and negotiate a sooner time period with the NBA? And so for us as investors I guess the question would be that given how crucial the NBA presumably is how are you thinking about maintaining financial and economic discipline as you go into that renegotiation with the NBA? Anthony it's John.
You know what unfortunately and I hope you can understand this I mean we're not going to comment specifically on the duration of the deal that we did.
But Jeff may have something to say about the NBA specifically.
Yes which is not much more.
It's one of the longest and strongest partnerships we have with any league.
And we do have the right as you said through the 2015 '16 season.
We not only license the content but we manage both NBA TV and the NBA digital properties for the league.
We're confident this relationship will continue for many years to come.
And we all know it's in your question that sports rates are going up.
We feel pretty good about our position there and our ability to pay that and continue to have the earnings growth we've been showing you.
And we really don't want to obviously say much more about it because we're talking about significant amounts of money.
And I think you would want us to just go off and keep securing the programming that we judge it wise to have.
The only thing I would add to that Anthony just to keep in mind and this is by design the entertainment networks at Turner are hybrid networks right? And the programming falls into different buckets whether it's originals which is getting an increasing percentage of the schedule or sports or acquired TV shows and movies.
So I think last year it was about 70% acquired 20% originals 10% sports.
And it's moving much more towards originals.
But just think about sports is incredibly important but I think the NBA represents 3% of our overall programming in terms of hours.
So we have a lot of other programming that's extremely valuable to the affiliates and extremely valuable to consumers.
So the NBA is important but we're going to be okay no matter what.
Our next question comes from Vasily Karasyov from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have a two-part question on margins at the Networks.
I think a couple of years ago you guys laid out at your Analyst Day the HBO margin expansion pass where the non-programming costs will be contained and the revenue growth will lead to that.
So I was wondering if HBO margins have been expanding in recent years? And then if it's still the trajectory that you see in the next 2 or 3 years? And then with the Turner affiliate fee accelerating should we also expect an incremental margin expansion that is -- or do you think all of the incremental revenue will be absorbed and spent into -- on programming? Thanks for the question.
Look I think if you look back over the last 5 to 7 years at the Networks group and this would be true for each of HBO and Turner in any given year margins expand roughly 100 basis points a year.
And that could be a little bit more in some years a little bit less in other years.
And I think the best indicator of the future is probably looking at the past because I think that's kind of a trend and that sort of a trajectory should continue.
All of the elements of the HBO margin story that we laid out in the Analyst Day from a number of years ago those are absolutely still intact.
But it's not just an HBO margin expansion story the same thing's happening at Turner.
And if you look at this quarter as just an indication we had at the Networks group I think 7% revenue growth 4% expense growth.
But if you look at the expense growth and decompose it in this quarter we had 8% programming expense growth.
That means all of the rest of the expenses at the Networks group were down.
And that doesn't come easily.
That comes by hard work.
But nevertheless we have a lot of control over our nonstrategic expenses.
And our goal is to hold those to growth in any given year of no more than low single-digits.
And we think programming costs are going to grow in any given year of no more than mid to high single-digits.
So that means overall expenses in any given year at the Networks should grow mid single-digits and we think revenue growth is going to outpace that each and every year.
Our next question comes from Jason Bazinet from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I know you mentioned on the call that the timing spend is getting pushed out a little bit.
I was wondering have you guys established the capital structure that you intend to put on Time Inc.
once it spins out? Jason it's John I'll just take it.
The answer is no.
There's a considerable amount of work that's going on and there's lots of different work streams associated with all aspects of the spin.
With Joe just being named as a CEO and a new CFO being named I think as recently as 2 days ago we look forward to a collaborative process working with them and the rest of the team.
One of the things I think we've said is is we want the capital structure of Time Inc.
to represent or provide Time Inc.
with the best possible path to success.
And we want the equity of the spun company to be attractive.
So we're going to be looking very closely at the amount of debt that we think is optimal for the Time Inc.
company and some sort of a dividend policy that we think will be optimal.
And anything that we would likely do because we haven't made a decision will leave Time Warner remain co as a leverage ratio that should be similar to where we are today is another way to think about it.
Our next question comes from Barton Crockett from Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask just a follow-up to the discussion of the acceleration of the Turner affiliate fees 2014 to 2016.
How much of that drops to the bottom line? In other words when you look out to this revenue acceleration do you also in your mind think can I give this a bucket to invest more in things like programming maybe for a sports rights feed or is it really kind of purely incremental profit? Can I start? All of it I guess is the short answer.
It's an increase in marginal revenue and so it's discretionary whether you want to spend and all of it went to the bottom line or whether we took -- we obviously have some percentage of total revenue that goes to costs we decide to make.
But you want to ask it in a different way? Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] What did you say I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> Okay.
I think you answered it.
Yes I think you're saying there's no change in your expense trend as you get that boost in revenue so it does drop to the bottom line.
Yes I mean any of the investments we would choose to make would be discretionary.
And I would just sort of mention for context we already spend an awful lot of money on programming.
So we've got meaningful scale.
And so we'll make the decisions based on the competitive dynamics.
But to have extra money in revenue is a nice thing to have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one other question if I can.
I was wondering if you could comment on the discussion of new over-the-top services like Intel has been in the press with things they look to launch.
So without talking specifically about things like Intel but the general kind of category of new multi-channel over-the-top services how do you gauge the probability of something meaningful coming to you in revenues in terms of like minimum guarantees for these new services over the next few quarters or the next few years? Well okay.
No one showed up on the horizon with anything that looks like that yet.
We've had conversations across our businesses with many technology companies vendors others that want to be distributors some of them over-the-top.
And we'll evaluate each business and opportunity within the context number one of our overall business; and number two of what we would think might be the sustainability of what some of these new entrants are proposing.
We're not philosophically opposed to it.
We just -- we don't see it as being viable through any of the suspects -- usual suspects yet.
Take some examples Intel hasn't launched yet.
So I don't know what they're going to do or whether they're going to do that.
Apple we talk to all the time and there's none that we know of that are interesting opportunities in our view.
Our next question comes from David Bank from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Jeff you've obviously made some pretty meaningful leadership changes across the business most recently at the Turner networks.
And when you gave the job to John to run the networks and I guess and David did work for him what essentially were the -- like what's the mandate to take this great business what is it that they are supposed to do? What did you say was -- you expected of them? What is like the 1 or 2 key goals that you expect to see them execute as the new leadership team or leadership? Well I want to start by saying I'm very happy.
And all companies from the top management of the divisions the corporate the board we're all really excited about the team that we have across all the divisions.
And I think that -- I'm personally really excited and happy about how smoothly all the transitions went how much of a bench we've got and how we were able to promote from within in pretty much all of these cases.
So there's an -- there's a body of both relationships and knowledge that are working together in a way that Time Warner hasn't had in previous years.
In terms of the specifics at Turner Phil and the management at Turner which certainly David Levy who's picking up some new responsibilities working closer with Steve Koonin and Stu Snyder now and their jobs as TBS TNT Turner Classic Movies and truTV gets stronger and they become a bigger part of a kind of programming evolution in the entire network business not just in our company but across the industry; but also the regeneration of momentum at CNN with Jeff Zucker.
The tremendous moves and the real fast growth that Gerhard Zeiler is making in all our international businesses including a new cooperation and level of kind of joint action between HBO and Turner and Warners all over the world.
These are all the things that got under way.
Phil put a lot of these people in place not just Phil but this whole team has got tremendous initiatives under way.
I think Turner is the leading company on digital transformation of its networks to VOD and to broadband-delivered TV Everywhere.
We have fuller offerings and more deals in place than anybody else.
So what John is going to do is go and join that momentum and continue to evolve it as it has been.
That's pretty similar to what Kevin's doing at Warner's with a great team there.
The team at HBO with Richard and Eric has continued to just move forward.
So it's really the same answer across the company.
It's just a new generation that has been here which is reaching the point in their careers where they can take the next step.
Our next question comes from Tuna Amobi from S&amp;P Capital IQ.
So first question for John.
The numbers you threw out in terms of the 5-year record of your return allocation between share buybacks and dividends I think if my math is correct that kind of forks out to north of 130% return rate which I have to say is pretty remarkable.
So I guess the question is is there any reason why you think that this kind of momentum or rate may not be sustainable after the spinoff? I mean if anything I would imagine it would probably even trend higher than that.
So any kind of color around that would be helpful.
And separately for Jeff so Game of Thrones obviously has had a phenomenal performance.
But one other issue that has also come up with regard to that title is the online piracy I think by all accounts one of the highest-pirated show and I'm not aware what you guys have done to kind of address that.
It almost seems like you've kind of viewed that as kind of a compliment in terms of just kind of looking the other way.
So I'm not sure if that's kind of the right thinking.
Is that a paradigm shift in terms of how you kind of look at some -- the piracy and its impact on some of the shows that's going forward? If you can touch on that and what you've done that would be helpful.
So Tuna I'll start with respect to your first question.
I think it's true to say that for at least 5 5.5 years we've had a very very consistent policy as it relates to managing the balance sheet capital structure and capital allocation.
And we have believed and continue to believe that having a balanced approach of delivering shareholder returns in many forms through earnings growth and a direct dividend and supplemented with share repurchases opportunistically coupled with maintaining a balance sheet that remains strong and provides adequate strategic flexibility that that policy has served the company well.
And we have been able to deploy a lot of capital over the last 5 years.
And as you appropriately pointed out more than 100% of what was generated.
The only thing I would say looking backwards is we did go through a period where we took up the balance sheet leverage.
When we spun off Time Warner Cable and we received the $9.25 billion dividend the company was underlevered and we used that opportunity to more appropriately optimize the capital structure.
So now the 2.5x leverage ratio will be basically the governor at least for the near term as it relates to what we will do and how we'll allocate capital.
And as I said in my proactive remarks we ended the quarter a little bit below that about 2.3x.
I do think though as you think about Time Warner post the Time Inc.
spin the spun company will be the company that probably is the least predictable in terms of free cash flow generation over the next several years.
So what will remain at Time Warner is essentially 90% of the company is from the TV ecosystem which is incredibly predictable incredibly robust.
And we'll feel really good and really confident about our free cash flow generation for the foreseeable future.
So we need to take that into consideration as we think about capital allocation going forward.
But I don't think we're contemplating at this point steering away from what we've done.
I think what we've done and how we've managed the company has served us well.
Tuna on Game of Thrones at HBO.
I have to confess I think you're right.
I admit our first reaction to it to how much people want to watch it -- now first of all it's got ratings of 14 million 15 million.
A lot of it is VOD on your TV system a fair amount an increasing amount of it is VOD on your GO service.
So it's really strengthening not just the image and the engagement of our subs with HBO programming it's also getting them familiar and very involved in using the Video on Demand capabilities of HBO.
And don't forget the television part the part where you go to your house and you turn on that big screen TV and you're watching it over the video plan.
Also the HBO GO service which the Game of Thrones is the leading introduction manual for how to use HBO GO which more and more millions of people are doing.
If you then go to people watching it that aren't subs it's a tremendous word-of-mouth thing.
The issue would be if they were doing it and because they could get it not subscribing.
We don't see much of that.
Basically we've been dealing with this issue for years at HBO where literally 20 30 years where people have always been running wires down the back of apartment buildings and sharing with their neighbors.
Our experience is it all leads to more penetration more paying subs and more health for HBO less reliance on having to do paid advertising.
We don't do a lot of paid advertising on HBO.
We let the programming and the reviews talk for us.
And it seems to be working.
If you go around the world I think you're right that Game of Thrones is the most pirated show in the world.
Now that's better than an Emmy.
All right.
Dawn I think we're actually out of time here.
So we're going to have to make that the last question.
And thanks everybody for listening in and we'll talk to you soon.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Time Warner Inc.
Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Richard and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at Time Warner.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Time Warner's third quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued 2 press releases one detailing our results for the third quarter and the other reaffirming our 2013 business outlook.
Before we begin there are 2 items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our website.
And second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Thank you and I'll turn the call over to Jeff? Jeff? Thanks Mike and thanks for listening in this morning.
We had another great quarter and we're on track for another very successful year.
In the third quarter we grew adjusted operating income 8% adjusted earnings per share increased 20% and we returned over $1.3 billion to our stockholders through buybacks and our dividend.
So it was a very strong quarter from a financial perspective.
And just as important we continue to perform at the top of our game operationally and to lay the foundation for continued growth.
For example at Turner we're seeing a significant payoff from the investments we've been making to bolster and refresh our program.
That was evident in advertising revenue which was up double-digits again this quarter and it was evident in ratings where TBS was the #2 cable network in prime across adults 18 to 34 and 18 to 49 in the quarter.
The ongoing strength of the Big Bang Theory is a big part of that success both in drawing audiences and as a launching pad for original programming.
TBS recently renewed 3 of its originals Sullivan &amp; Son Men at Work and Deal With It for additional seasons.
And in the fourth quarter TBS is continuing to build out its lineup of original series with the launch of 3 new shows including a show called Ground Floor.
That's a comedy from Warner's.
TBS investment in Major League Baseball is also paying dividends.
The National League Championship Series grew prime time viewers by 14% over 2011 which is the last time it aired on TBS.
TNT has also continued to benefit from investments in programming finishing the quarter as the #2 network on cable among adults 25 to 54 in total day.
Its growing slate of hit originals included 4 of the top 10 scripted shows on cable this quarter: Rizzoli &amp; Isles Major Crimes Falling Skies and Perception.
Over the next month TNT will bring back Major Crimes and Boston's Finest and it will premiere 2 new shows: Marshall Law: Texas which is an unscripted show from Jerry Bruckheimer as well as the highly anticipated miniseries Mob City from Frank Darabont.
Last week the NBA also kicked off its regular season on TNT.
That marks its 30th year with Turner.
The season-opener between the Miami Heat and Chicago Bulls was the second highest-rated opening night in TNT history and Thursday night's doubleheader grew viewership by 14% over last season's first Thursday night telecast.
We're also continuing to make gains at CNN.
This quarter CNN grew total day ratings in its key demo by 15% while its 2 principal competitors showed year-over-year declines.
And it finished ahead of MSNBC in both total viewers and adults 25 to 54 for the second straight quarter.
Well there's still lots of work to be done but CNN is showing real progress particularly in revamped programming blocks like the morning show where New Day drove viewership up almost 30% over the year-ago quarter.
Adult Swim is having a great year as well.
It just finished the most-watched quarter in its history growing over 20% with adults 18 to 34 in total day.
It was the #1 ad-supported cable network in total day among 18- to 34-year-olds for the 22nd straight time and for the first time it was also #1 in prime time among adults 18 to 34.
Across the board the Turner networks continued to deliver great value to our customers our advertisers and our distributors.
That was evident in our recent affiliate renewal with another top distributor.
During this affiliate renewal cycle we've now signed renewals with 4 of the top 10 U.S.
distributors reinforcing our confidence in Turner's ability to accelerate its domestic subscription revenue growth starting next year.
Turning to HBO.
We're also benefiting from our investments in great programming.
You don't have to take my word for it.
The rest of the industry is saying it for us.
HBO won 27 prime time Emmy Awards this year.
That's the most of any network for the 12th straight year.
That included 11 awards for Behind the Candelabra and 5 for Boardwalk Empire making them the 2 biggest winners this year.
And the distinctiveness and the excellence of HBO's programming is apparent in its subscriber trends which have been very positive both here in the U.S.
and around the world.
Outside the U.S.
HBO is on track for another year of double-digit growth in subscribers.
And on that front we recently acquired the interest in HBO Asia and in HBO South Asia that we did not previously own.
By wholly owning these ventures we think HBO will be able to better capitalize on the growth opportunities in the region.
Let me turn to Warner Bros.
which is hitting on all cylinders.
In television Warner's is once again supplying more shows to the broadcast networks than any other studio.
That includes the top 2 series on television The Big Bang Theory and The Voice which have both seen ratings growth over the last season.
Beyond the broadcast networks we continue to see very strong demand from cable networks SVOD services and international territories for both originals and off-net syndication.
Looking across cable and broadcast Warner Bros.
TV is producing 63 shows this season.
That's up from 55 last season.
And that includes the highest number of returning series in more than 30 years.
In syndication Warner's benefited from the domestic cable sale of The Middle this quarter and added to its pipeline with the sale of Person of Interest which will premiere on cable in 2015.
At the film studio Warner's released 2 sleeper hits in the third quarter The Conjuring and We're the Millers which have grossed over $300 million and $260 million respectively at the global box office.
Warner's followed that up with the release of Gravity which is a phenomenon both in terms of critical acclaim and commercial success.
As most of you know Gravity set an October record for an opening weekend domestically and it's on track to gross over $0.5 billion at the global box office.
Thanks to those titles and other global hits like Man of Steel and The Great Gatsby Warner Bros.
is #1 at the domestic box office so far this year and of course the second installment in The Hobbit franchise will storm into theaters next month.
In September Warner Bros.
also took a major step in securing its franchise pipeline with the announcement of an expanded creative relationship with J.K.
Rowling.
As the centerpiece of that relationship she will write a series of original films that revisit the magical world she created in the Harry Potter novels.
Like the many millions of fans of her great work we're excited to see what new adventures Jo has in store for us.
Before I finish let me take a minute to update you on the timing of the Time Inc.
spin.
Joe Ripp and his team have been in place for a couple of months now and they're making great progress in preparing Time Inc.
to become an independent publicly traded company.
We anticipate making the initial filing of our Form 10 in the next few weeks.
That should put us in a position to complete the spinoff during the second quarter of next year.
As many of you know the separation of Time Inc.
will be the culmination of the process we started over 5 years ago to refocus Time Warner on being a pure-play content company with an emphasis on video and television in particular.
I think you can see the positive impact that focus is having on our results.
At the same time we know that capital allocation could be as important to stockholder returns as operational excellence.
So far this year we've returned almost $4 billion to stockholders through share repurchases and dividends and we remain committed to maintaining an efficient capital structure and to providing direct returns to our stockholders going forward as well.
In closing I'm really pleased with our results so far this year.
We still have a lot of work to do but I'm more confident than ever in our strategic position and our ability to maintain attractive growth and returns for many years to come.
With that I'll turn it over to John for his final earnings call as our Chief Financial &amp; Administrative Officer.
John's leadership has been a key ingredient to the success of Time Warner in recent years and I'm confident that will continue to be the case in his new role as CEO of Turner.
John? Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide which is now available on our website.
And starting with our consolidated results.
We had another really great quarter and off of flat revenues adjusted income rose 8% making this our most profitable third quarter ever.
And that was mainly due to solid double-digit growth at the Networks segment and company-wide adjusted operating income margins expanded almost 180 basis points year-over-year and that's the eighth time in the last 9 quarters that margins have expanded year-over-year.
We've been able to do that by staying very very focused on costs and continued cost discipline has been critical to our ability to invest aggressively while also increasing margins and it remains a significant focus for the company.
Adjusted EPS grew 20% in the quarter and that marks the 13th out of the last 16 quarters that adjusted EPS has grown double-digits.
And once again we were able to grow adjusted EPS faster than adjusted operating income and that was helped by a lower effective tax rate as well as our ongoing share repurchase program.
The acceleration in our share repurchases this quarter is evidence of our continued commitment to providing returns to stockholders.
Year-to-date we've returned almost $4 billion and that includes $3 billion in buybacks and $811 million in dividends.
And that's almost 25% more than we returned during the same period in 2012 and it includes $1.2 billion in share repurchases since we last reported earnings.
Our year-to-date operating results have also been really really good with adjusted operating income up 12% and adjusted EPS up 25%.
And that's despite an almost 300 basis-point drag on growth in adjusted operating income from Time Inc.
and the inclusion of foreign exchange movements as well as incremental equity losses associated with the company's nearly 50% investment in CME.
Given the strength in these year-to-date results let me just touch on our outlook for a moment which calls for mid-teens growth and adjusted EPS for the full year 2013 which we reaffirmed this morning.
Just doing the math that implies a fourth quarter adjusted EPS to be about flat relative to last year which is obviously a significant deceleration from the first 9 months of this year.
And that's due largely to decisions that we've made about our programming schedule as well as related marketing spend at the Networks segment.
I'll discuss that more in detail in a few minutes.
Our outlook for the fourth quarter also reflects very difficult comparison to Warner Bros.
continued pressure at Time Inc.
and higher expected equity losses related to CME.
And for the year we now assume about a $0.10 negative impact to adjusted EPS as a result of our equity accounting at CME and that's an obvious disappointment.
But putting this all in perspective we fully expect 2013 to mark the fifth consecutive year of double-digit adjusted EPS growth and it's going to be another record year for the company.
So we feel really good about the underlying trends in virtually all of our businesses and with the momentum we saw in the third quarter we've got even more confidence about our ability to drive further growth in years to come.
So let me now turn to our divisional segment highlights and let me begin with the Networks segment.
Adjusted operating income here in the third quarter was up a very strong 12% and it's been up double-digits through the first 9 months of the year.
Advertising revenues once again grew double-digits and that was largely due as a result of very positive trends at both domestic entertainment as well as our international networks.
Domestic advertising was up high single-digits in the quarter.
And that included double-digit growth at the entertainment networks which included kids and young adults and that was somewhat offset by a slight decline at domestic news.
International advertising increased high-teens despite a several hundred basis-point drag from foreign exchange.
And that reflected very healthy growth across all regions with particular strength in Latin America.
And while it's somewhat difficult to measure we believe both domestic and international advertising trends were helped on a year-over-year basis this year by the absence of the Olympics in the third quarter.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter scatter pricing at the entertainment networks is up double-digits over the upfront and we anticipate high single-digit advertising growth at domestic entertainment including kids.
Domestic news is likely to be down double-digits year-over-year however and that's because of the comparison against the U.S.
presidential election last year as well as ongoing softness in the news advertising marketplace in general.
Similarly we are seeing a sequential deceleration in international advertising growth in the fourth quarter and that is owing partially to difficult comparisons against last year's fourth quarter specifically in Latin America and Europe.
So in total we would expect advertising growth at Turner to be somewhere in the mid single-digits in the fourth quarter when you take into consideration the ups and downs that I just went through.
Moving on subscription revenue growth of 4% in Q3 was consistent with the mid single-digit growth in the first half of the year and was perfectly in line with our expectations.
A stronger U.S.
dollar continues to weigh on growth here in the quarter and we expect that that is going to continue to be the case in the fourth quarter as well.
However we continue to see healthy underlying subscriber dynamics in international territories particularly at Latin America.
And as Jeff just mentioned Turner recently secured an affiliate renewal with an additional top 10 U.S.
distributor.
We've also seen some encouraging subscriber trends at HBO so we remain confident that we're going to see a real acceleration in subscriber revenues beginning in 2014.
Adjusted operating income at the Networks was up 12% in the quarter with margins increasing 220 basis points year-over-year and that's the sixth quarter in a row of margin expansion at this segment.
In addition to Networks segment revenue growth margin expansion was helped by an extremely modest increase in expenses of less than 2% in the quarter and that was largely a result of the timing of programming spend which was down versus last year's third quarter.
Looking at the fourth quarter for a moment we anticipate a pretty big year-over-year ramp in our original programming investment and related marketing spend.
And that's a result of more than an 80% increase in original episodes at Turner as well as an increase in spending on both original series and original films at HBO.
We're also investing at CNN and that's part of a strategic decision to broaden the programming beyond merely breaking news and politics.
Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown and Morgan Spurlock's Inside Man are 2 early efforts in this area and they're among 2 of CNN's highest-rated shows this year.
And their success suggests that there are meaningful opportunities for CNN beyond merely breaking news and politics.
Programming investments such as these will likely put some pressure on CNN's margins in the near-term but they will also open up a new pool of advertisers to CNN and they could position the network for a return to attractive growth over time.
For the fourth quarter there are just a couple of other items to keep in mind here at the Networks segment.
First we anticipate a drop in content revenue as a result of continued soft demand for catalog product and fewer home video releases at HBO.
In addition we recently acquired the remaining interests in HBO Asia and HBO South Asia so we now own 100% of each and will start consolidating for accounting purposes their operating results in the fourth quarter.
This is part of an ongoing effort to accelerate HBO's international growth and that leaves HBO Latin America group as the only significant international HBO joint venture that we do not consolidate.
The consolidation of HBO's properties in Asia will benefit subscription revenue growth but it's actually going to be a slight drag on operating profit in the fourth quarter mostly as a result of seasonality.
But together with HBO Nordic which we started consolidating earlier this year for accounting purposes we expect the negative impact on adjusted operating income to be around $15 million for the fourth quarter.
And obviously these ventures are still in investment phases and we fully anticipate that they're going to pay off and become really attractive investments for us over time.
But taking that all into account we anticipate the network's adjusted operating income will be approximately flat in the fourth quarter of 2013 and that's obviously not a typical quarter for us from a year-over-year growth rate perspective which is why we wanted to share a little bit more detail with you.
Still with 1 quarter left to go we remain absolutely on track for another year of margin expansion and some pretty strong growth in adjusted operating income at the Networks group.
And with the investments we're making in these businesses we're positioning ourselves to grow at very attractive levels for the foreseeable future.
Turning now to Film and TV production at Warner's.
We knew coming into this year that we had very tough comparisons in the second half of the year in both the third and the fourth quarter and in line with our expectations revenue was down 7% and adjusted operating income was down 8% in Q3.
But year-to-date Warner's is having a terrific year and its adjusted operating income is still up double-digits.
Despite the declines in the quarter we're very very pleased with Warner's operating performance.
And as Jeff noted some highlights We're the Millers and The Conjuring were both extremely successful releases at the box office.
On the TV side the third quarter benefited from the domestic cable sale of The Middle and we continue to see very good demand for our product globally.
This is evident in the number of new shows we have on broadcast this season and the strong pricing we're getting when we're selling those shows in international territories.
Across theatrical and TV Warner Home Entertainment revenue declined 9% in the quarter and that was principally due to the timing of SVOD availabilities at the CW which shifted from Q3 to Q4 this year as a result of the later start of its season.
In addition we have seen some softness in the home entertainment sales of our television product as of late including catalog.
For the industry however home entertainment sales fell just slightly in the quarter and they actually remained up for the year.
And electronic sell-through grew more than 50% in the quarter and year-to-date for the industry and we think that's an extremely positive sign for the future of the Home Entertainment business and we're focused on improving the consumer experience in order to further accelerate the shift to digital ownership.
Looking ahead Warner's has very difficult comparisons against last year's fourth quarter which happened to be an all-time record quarter for Warner Bros.
So year-over-year growth may be tough but we expect profits to significantly exceed the third quarter of this year.
And we're off to a great start with the success of Gravity and we'll also benefit from the next Hobbit film.
We'll benefit from the recognition of the CW SVOD revenue and the games release of Batman Arkham Origins.
So it should still be our biggest quarter of the year and among the largest-ever for Warner's in terms of adjusted operating income.
And that's going to put Warner's firmly on track to grow profits this year and potentially have its best year ever.
So we're quite pleased with that.
Moving over to Time Inc.
Advertising revenue was down 2% in the quarter.
Domestic print advertising increased but that was due largely to a shift of an issue of both People and Sports Illustrated into the third quarter from the fourth quarter.
And without this shift domestic print ad revenue would have been up marginally in the quarter but overall advertising would have declined by over 3%.
And that's due to softness in non-magazine as well as international advertising.
Subscription revenues also benefited by more than 200 basis points as a result of the additional issues in the third quarter.
Despite that subscription revenue was down 4% in the quarter and that was principally due to continued softness in newsstand sales.
Looking ahead we expect both advertising and subscription revenues to be negatively affected in the fourth quarter by the shift of the issues that I just mentioned into the third quarter.
In addition the improvement in trends in domestic print advertising that we experienced in the third quarter doesn't seem to be continuing yet in the fourth quarter.
Adjusted operating income was down 8% in Q3 as ongoing cost control efforts weren't enough to offset the revenue declines.
And given the continued revenue pressure that we expect we think adjusted operating income is going to be down in the fourth quarter at Time Inc.
Let me move on and talk for a minute about free cash flow.
2013 is going to shape up to be an absolutely terrific year in terms of free cash flow generation.
Year-to-date we've generated almost $2.9 billion of free cash.
That's up almost 50% versus the same period in 2012 and is almost as much as we generated in all of last year.
And that's mostly due to the strong growth in adjusted operating income as well as an expected improvement in working capital.
Capital expenditures and cash taxes are also lower year-to-date.
The biggest drivers of the change in working capital have been lower payments for certain license programs the timing of sports programming payments and higher reimbursements from prior film co-financings.
The decline in cash taxes was primarily a result of tax law extenders that were cast by Congress in January of this year.
And that's been a positive for us all year.
So with our solid performance year-to-date and with just a few months to go we're fully on track for a really really strong year in 2013 as it relates to free cash flow.
So let me move on and just talk for a minute about the balance sheet and net debt.
We ended the third quarter with a little bit more than $17.5 billion in net debt.
That's up about $570 million from the end of last year and that's mainly due to the roughly almost $3.5 billion of capital returned to shareholders in the first 9 months of the year through dividends and share repurchases.
And that includes an acceleration in our share repurchases in the quarter to almost $1.1 billion.
Consistent with recent years the amount of capital return significantly exceeds the free cash flow we've generated year-to-date.
On a transaction front I do want to highlight that Warner Bros.
entered into a multi-year agreement to co-finance as many as 75 movies with RatPac-Dune Entertainment.
Along with its existing co-financing arrangement with Village Roadshow we think this provides Warner's with very attractive flexibility to manage the risk of its film slate while optimizing its return on investment.
So we feel really good about that and we're pleased with that development.
Balance sheet leverage remained steady at about 2.3x.
That's a little bit below our target of 2.5x and that's despite the acceleration in our share repurchase program that occurred during the quarter.
And that was a result of the continued strong free cash flow generation that I just mentioned a few minutes ago.
So that concludes my remarks.
With that let me turn it back over to Mike and we'll start the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thanks John.
Richard can we please start the Q&amp;A? [Operator Instructions] Richard? [Operator Instructions] Our first question online comes from Mr.
Ben Swinburne for Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Question for either/or both of you on sort of John's move down to Turner.
The business is obviously performing very well but I'd love to hear more about what you think the big opportunities are beyond what we all know about on the affiliate fee side? What are you thinking about changes in programming efficiencies on the cost side some of the momentum at CNN the international opportunity? What are the things that John you and the -- and your team are going to be focused on as you head down to that business? And then on CME just any comments on your plans there and what the carrying value of that asset is now.
There's been a lot of focus on that this week in the news.
Ben it's John.
Listen it's a little early to start talking about my new role at Turner since it doesn't begin until January 1.
So please be sensitive and appreciate to that.
But look I'm really excited.
It is a great opportunity for me to work with great people and great brands.
And look I think we here believe that as the television ecosystem evolves the big brands are going to continue to get stronger and that's going to come as weaker and less developed brands are going to be more and more difficulty in surviving and succeeding.
And so we're playing from an advantaged hand and we're going to be operating 2 of the most profitable networks in the world with TBS and TNT.
They've got huge programming budgets.
We want to attract the very best projects we can.
We want to delight the viewers.
We want to maintain our position right at the very top of the cable networks universe.
We see opportunities frankly in lots of places.
We see them in general entertainment.
I think Adult Swim is a huge opportunity.
I think truTV under the new leadership of Chris Linn who came over from Viacom's MTV you're going to see a completely refreshed lineup of programming sometime in 2014.
It's going to be much better.
I think with CNN there's opportunities.
Just to go back to what I even said in my prepared remarks I think CNN and with the experimentation that Jeff and the leadership team did there with some shows like Anthony Bourdain Morgan Spurlock some of the movies that they've put on that have attracted younger audiences bigger audiences that complemented with the unparalleled news-breaking capabilities is demonstration that it's reinforcing the value to the affiliates and consumers and increasingly we want to reinforce the value to the advertisers.
So I'm really excited.
I'm working with a world-class team and obviously the world-class team up here and we see bright days ahead.
And also you asked about CME? Research Division</strong> Yes.
And as CME has disclosed being a public company we are in discussions about a capital transaction including a potential loan to CME.
We have confidence in the new management.
We think CME has very interesting long-term opportunities.
So we're only going to engage in a transaction there if it's fair for our shareholders.
And certainly it has to be fair to theirs.
So while there's no guarantee we will come to an agreement we are -- we've been and remain very interested in what CME might do.
And yes it's had some difficult performance recently but we think that the market is a very interesting opportunity the markets that they are in.
Our next question online comes from Mr.
Michael Nathanson for MoffettNathanson.
I have one for Jeff and one for John.
Jeff let me just ask you about HBO and the Comcast test you guys are running? Over the many years you guys have always said that HBO's real opportunity is the 70 million people who don't pay for HBO.
And you also said that people who watch HBO like to watch a lot of TV.
So given those 2 data points how are you thinking about the test that Comcast is running? And then I have one for John.
You're asking about this new kind of smaller bundle of Internet service with [Audio Gap] video? Is that what you're asking? Right.
Right exactly.
Yes.
Well it's a new offer.
It's fairly targeted.
It's a pretty limited video offering not in the sense of HBO which is a fantastic video and broadband offering.
So it won't probably be attractive for most people but it might be as I think you're asking something that appeals to a segment.
We've always thought that it makes sense and we've done this for 30 years of HBO to try to work with distributors to make packages that make HBO available to every group of basic or wireline-connected subscribers.
So that's an interesting thing for HBO.
It could be an effective way to reach the 8 million or 10 million homes with broadband that don't have multichannel TV.
The only thing we'd add is what -- great we're interested we're supportive.
I think what we've all got to see is whether there's an interest because there's another as you mentioned 60 million or 70 million basic TV subs many of whom would like to have HBO and there may be ways to get -- there are places where the penetration of HBO would naturally be much higher in the basic video households.
And so HBO is working hard with some key distributors on that.
And is that opportunity gated by your affiliate deals? Like do you have to work through new HBO affiliate deals to give you more flexibility? No no no.
No gating at all.
Affiliates can all create all kinds of whatever packages that they really think would be attractive to subscribers whether the subs have basic cable and want a better premium offer or whether they're not video subs and they're broadband subs and they want a video offer that has HBO.
Okay.
Let me just ask John on SVOD.
You flagged the CW timing.
When you look at the year-over-year change in SVOD for you guys do you expect it to be up for the year? And if so what kind of percentage growth are you seeing SVOD this year? Thanks Michael.
Look year-to-date we've booked about $200 million at SVOD revenue.
And last year we had about $350 million.
We already expect because of the CW pushing out into Q4 we already know there's a good chunk of money coming in that will be recognized and booked in Q4 as well.
That plus deals that we see in the pipeline probably mean we'll be comparable year-over-year with a little bit of luck maybe a little bit of upside but probably not a hell of a lot.
But we are -- we continue to be encouraged by the breadth of SVOD providers that we're doing business with.
If you just think about the amounts booked to date 2/3 of that are coming from outside of the U.S.
It's disproportionately TV and Netflix only represents half of overall booked revenues.
So there's a lot of players that are increasingly interested in the SVOD window and we continue to see it as a real opportunity.
So we're confident.
It's going to continue to be a significant revenue stream for us again this year.
It may even grow as I just mentioned.
But I do want to just mention and keep in perspective that it's still a very very small percentage of our overall revenue and even Warner's revenue.
Warner's is a massive scale studio.
It's only around 10% of our TV syndication revenue last year and it's just 3% of our total film and TV revenue.
So it might be more important for some of the other players in this space to make great shows and we sell them for lots of different players and lots of different windows.
And we'll continue to look to how to optimize the control of these assets so that we can maximize their value going forward.
Our next question online comes from Mr.
Doug Mitchelson from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Jeff you talked about the increasing focus on originals at Turner again and I just had a question on the movie side so we can gauge that trend line.
In the third quarter TNT viewership was down a bit.
I think -- it seemed to us that it was from the movie category not the originals those performed well.
So first is that right? And second is the decline in movies due to a secular trend? Was that due to mix of movies? Was there more library or just new movie avails is not as strong? I just want to make sure we're gauging that trend correctly.
All right.
I'll just do the movies first.
There's not a secular trend really in movies.
That passes around depending on which movies that you have on in a given quarter.
In the -- if you're asking about TNT there -- it gets into what avails of our series are on.
We've had very strong performance in our original series on TNT.
I think 4 out of the top 5 and a lot in the third quarter of our series on all cable were on TNT.
So was your question about other parts of the programming or is it...
Was it a cost question Doug or a strategy question? The cost piece is going down and it's going to continue to go down as we move more money and reallocate it over to originals.
Movies will still be an important part of the programming schedule as Jeff said because we got a lot of hours to fill 24/7 and they tend to be a little bit more economic and some movies can still generate large audiences.
But as we've said we've made a strategic decision to back away from some of the real top heater movies and to go to more that you can play with repeat performances on more of an evergreen basis.
But directionally if you think of the 3 buckets of programming between sports originals and acquired.
Sports obviously huge importance remain committed.
We've got long-term deals with almost all of our sports partners.
Originals are going to be going up and they're going to maintain a larger percent of the schedule.
And then on the acquired side emphasizing more the TV series and somewhat deemphasizing movies.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Jeff and John you both mentioned increasing confidence and strong Turner affiliate fee growth next year.
Is that still specifically at the high single-digit level for domestic Turner that you expressed previously? Yes.
I mean for next year we would anticipate it being close to double digits next year.
Domestic affiliate fees at Turner yes same thing no change.
Our next question online comes from Ms.
Jessica Reif Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of HBO questions.
I guess historic you mentioned the Emmy wins which were phenomenal.
How do you benefit from that? Is it -- do you think it affects subscriber growth or is it in home video ultimately? Jessica it's a little indirect but really important if you look at it over time.
So if you have recognition not just in Emmy's but also in press reviews it allows you to take breakthrough programming that is not the kind of broad reach in every case traditional ad-supported programming and allow viewers to find it and so you build these hits with subscribers that makes it efficient from a marketing point of view.
It then does a very important thing which is it attracts huge writer director and actor talent that work in films to work in television.
And what you've seen with HBO starting it more than 10 years ago is a very vibrant creative kind of a highway between the film business and the television network business.
And that has enlivened HBO and a lot of its competition.
And what it does it just brings -- because HBO gets first pick at a lot of these things it brings a tremendous range and quality of projects that makes premium TV always more relevant more powerful.
And then to your question that means it supports subscriber bases here and around the world it supports content sales increasingly now in video and broadband.
And so the whole thing just picks up momentum and that's essentially how it works.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe moving overseas which has obviously been a focus growth for you guys.
I guess can you just talk a little bit about how much more investment do you think you need to either just grow the business or buy out some partners? And also maybe you could talk a little bit about where the upside -- you see upside in various regions? For example I think you just launched in India.
So any more color outside the U.S.? Yes.
Well the main investments are behind us because we bought as we said the rest of the HBO networks in Europe and Asia and South America.
And we have 1 partner who we've had all along in Latin America and we're happy with that arrangement.
So we don't need a lot of investment on the HBO side.
When -- in turn we're not buying things we're just essentially expanding our programming expanding our activities.
We have launched in a few countries as we referenced in the formal remarks in Scandinavia and the Netherlands.
We launched -- we're launching add-on services in India.
We think that's a good market.
But these things by and large don't take a lot of investment.
They're basic line extensions.
That's on the HBO side.
On the Turner side it's -- our strongest position is in Latin America.
I think everyone knows we made a pretty good acquisition 2 of them actually the Claxson networks in Argentina which are essentially Pan-Latin America basic networks across many genres and then the Chilevision free-to-air network in Chile.
And we're -- we can build on the Turner side in some countries with investments in terms of acquiring networks that may be there.
But that -- it's not something where it's a clear -- put it this way most of our investment essentially is in the operations programming and expansion of what we have not acquisition of other companies.
And I think Jessica if your question was also -- in my remarks where I said that through the acquisition of Asia and South Asia it would put somewhat of a drag on near-term earnings if that's what the investment that you're referring to that is true for fourth quarter.
That coupled with Nordic means that the impact overall to Time Warner this year on an adjusted operating income basis is probably about $25 million $30 million loss.
I would expect that to improve beginning next year.
In other words Asia and South Asia we would expect a crossover breakeven and actually contribute to earnings next year and Nordic will probably be in and around comparable to this year.
So it should get better beginning next year.
We've been saying and we still are we're going to hit $1 billion in adjusted network operating income in the next couple of years.
And we're still on track for that.
That's a tremendous growth ramp for us.
Our next question online comes from Mr.
Richard Greenfield from BTIG Research.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on Michael Nathanson's question.
While you don't expect many people to take a broadband tier with broadcast as well as HBO if it actually did take off you have a lot of basic cable networks and then obviously that wouldn't be great for your basic cable net distribution.
I'm just wondering from a technical standpoint how big can Comcast or -- forget about Comcast.
How big could any MVPD make a tier like what Comcast has just done before that tier would have to get all of your basic channels? Essentially at what point does the penetration have to hit before all of your big networks like TBS and TNT have to be part of what the consumer offering is? And then just a second a quick question on CW.
How important is the CW long-term to your company? We've got the Tribune which is the #1 CW station group has evolved into more of an entertainment company.
I'm just curious how important wedded you are to that CW 50% stake? Right.
So Rich we're not going to talk about our provisions and our contracts on our package requirements but I mean I know you're asking basically that.
It's really something that we don't have to be concerned about on this near move.
What -- let's just go to the likely facts.
If there's viability and consumer attractiveness which is the premise of your question for people trying to get basically a more focused a more valuable and maybe a less expensive basic cable package our channels are going to be in there by consumer demand in order to make it happen.
I mean we have -- of all the network groups in the United States we have the highest proportion of networks among the top 40.
We also have the highest proportion of our affiliate fees from our biggest networks.
About 85% of our fees come from our top 4.
They're all basically wide reach widely demanded networks.
And so if you're going to have to your question any kind of really substantial take-up of a let's call it a best of cable type of a package our networks will be in there.
If there was some -- if we were wrong about it our contracts would handle that issue.
So I'm not going to go more specific than that on it.
If you go to the CW it's been basically something where if you put the economics together of our show production and the network it's a pretty valuable generator of asset value and income even current income.
So it's a good platform for the company and it's been a significant part of our talent relations to create a working relationship with some of the younger talents that makes a lot of the cutting edge programming that goes not just to the CW but it goes from Warner series production into the 5 broadcast nets and increasingly into the cable networks who are buying more.
And as you know we not only supply TNT TBS truTV we also have some critical shows in a lot of the other cable networks.
So it's all to our mind it's been a very successful venture.
Our next question online comes from Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on your leverage already being a bit below your target and expectations for continued very strong free cash flow.
What are your priorities when we think about your balance sheet next year and your use of cash going forward? Can we see even a further acceleration to buy back? Yes.
Look thanks Alexia for the question.
Our approach towards our capital structure and capital allocation more broadly has been pretty consistent now for the past 6 years since Jeff has been the CEO.
And it's a balanced approach after fully investing in all of our organic investment projects.
We look at 3 additional ways to provide value.
The first is -- and this is in order of priority.
The first is M&amp;A where we try to look for things on a disciplined way to advantage our existing competitive positions and grow value.
And there over the last 5 to 6 years I think we've only spent about $3 billion in M&amp;A mostly in international cable.
And that's not by design.
That's just based on the attractiveness of the project so you should probably think that there has been somewhat of a limited number of attractive targets that have presented themselves but that may not necessarily hold into the future.
The second is the dividend which we've raised each of the last 4 years double-digits on an annual basis.
And the third is the buyback program which we've been using very opportunistically and frankly we're quite pleased with the results and the allocation of capital there.
And at a long-term target leverage ratio of 2.5x we think that today that optimizes the capital structure and minimizes the weighted average cost of capital and appropriately balances our access to the capital markets at attractive pricing and at the same time retain strategic flexibility.
We'll always continue to evaluate that in terms of the right level but we think 2.5x now still is right.
And yes I mean given the strong free cash flow generation that the company's had it obviously increases our options for use of capital and use of cash.
So...
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on a comment that I think you made earlier about expecting some deceleration in international advertising growth in the fourth quarter.
Is that simply a comp issue that you highlighted or are you also -- are you seeing anything else there? Look let me -- international is up high-teens in the third quarter.
If you didn't have a foreign exchange headwind it would be up above 20%.
And that included double-digit increases at both entertainment and news particularly strong in Latin America.
But we just don't see that kind of year-over-year trend continuing into the fourth quarter.
Some of it is the result of -- that was pretty high ad growth from the third quarter benefiting from our Olympics comps in the third quarter.
The secular dynamics are positive particularly in emerging markets.
And so we feel very good about them on a long-term trajectory.
They're just not going to be as high as that in the fourth quarter.
Our next question online comes from Mr.
John Janedis from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Maybe sticking with the HBO theme you guys talked about the moderation in subscription growth broadly.
Are you seeing any kind of mixed shift at HBO? And what are some of the things you can do to reaccelerate domestic growth away from the renewal cycle you've spoken to? Well I'm not sure what you're talking about in terms of moderating.
HBO's having a great year in domestic subscribers and a very huge year overseas as well.
If you're asking about the mix sometimes our sub-growth depending on the affiliate is weighted towards either Cinemax subs or basically incentive subscribers that are over and above the penetration targets we have in our deals.
What happens with those is they end up creating a subbase that becomes a very strong platform for HBO's partnership with the distributor as they work out wholesale rates and penetration and marketing plans into the next year.
So HBO is doing -- having I guess -- well actually I think it's the strongest year in domestic subs in many years this year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So no change in trend? Well the trend in domestic sub-growth is up so the change is an increase.
Our next question online comes from Mr.
Michael Morris from Guggenheim Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two topics.
First just back on the investment in HBO internationally.
Can you help us with just the size of that business? Can you share the revenue that's generated by the Asian assets that you acquired? And also if you look at that relative to the size of the Latin America business that you don't currently consolidate how much bigger is Latin America than Asia and how do you think about -- where are you in the potential of being able to have a similar transaction for Latin America? And then I have one follow-up on CETV.
Mike it's John.
I don't have the break out of the international HBO investments in front of me.
We can do that offline.
I mean overall regardless of the accounting HBO is about $1 billion of revenue.
Internationally Latin America is the single-largest asset.
Whether that's 30% or 40% I just don't know off the top of my head.
It's been growing the fastest still.
And as far as the ability to buy out the partner I think we own 89% of HBO Latin America today.
And the reason why we don't consolidate has to do more with certain governance rights as compared to ownership.
So I think in terms of the operational management day-to-day control the HBO management team has been exercising that now for some time and it's one of the reasons why the assets have been performing so well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on CETV it seems that you're expecting about a $0.05 drag in the fourth quarter.
I believe just based on what you've done year-to-date there is that accurate? And then is that based on expectation just for the financial performance of that business going forward? Or is there something -- what I'm trying to figure out is as I look forward whether that includes any sort of incremental loss or cost or whether that's sort of indicative of the run rate of what you're seeing at that business.
I'm not sure what your question means Mike.
I mean we do straight equity accounting on CETV and we recognize 49.9% of their net operations.
So year-to-date through the 9 months it's been about an $0.08 drag this year versus a $0.04 drag last year.
Looking at the fourth quarter based on their public guidance it would be about another $0.02.
So we're anticipating about a total $0.10 drag this year versus $0.04 last year.
So that is what I've mentioned.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So $0.02 in the fourth quarter and it's all simply just operating results from the company.
There's nothing else...
Based on the company's public guidance that's correct.
Our last question online comes from Vasily Karasyov from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> My question is on CNN John.
I think a year or 2 ago the conventional wisdom was that no matter what the ratings are doing the network is still a steady contributor to adjusted operating income.
But given that you're mentioning incremental investment in programming there my question is one is the network operating income down year-on-year so far in 2013? And then how should we on the outside be judging the progress at CNN outside of ratings perhaps? Wait.
Can you just -- are you talking about CNN? Research Division</strong> Yes CNN.
Okay.
The ratings are up.
You want me to do the financials and then you go ahead on the strategy? And...
Yes yes.
So look financially we don't break out network by network our financials.
I will tell you directionally CNN's operating income this year is down.
And that's because of proactive decisions that have been made by Jeff Zucker and the new team there to try to invest in the programming in many many day parts and you're seeing the benefits of that show up often in the ratings.
Those are active decisions made by management as opposed to having it done to them.
And going forward we're going to continue to evaluate what the right level of investment is for CNN.
I mean the expectation is going to be on a multi-year basis this thing is going to go back to growth absolutely.
Yes it's not a trend.
Yes.
It's not a sustainable trend.
So let me add it's still early but the moves that we've had and you can see them on air and you can see them in the ratings is that the new leadership in light of the new programming lineup moves are off to a great start the morning shows some of the prime time shows up considerably.
If you look at the breaking news events this year it's been very evident that CNN has been the leader both in ratings and quality.
And at the same time as John had said and I think you just said it again we're broadening the per view of coverage to keep viewers tuning in during slower news cycles to cover some areas of cultural and specific events that are of interest to people of all ages.
That's the kind of thing you'd see with some of our new morning show segments with some of Anthony Bourdain's shows and some other shows we've put on.
We've also added some news analysis with the Crossfire rebirth and we're going to be investing more both in talent and shows to get that done.
So we just think that this is a good time to capitalize really on the position CNN has.
Nobody is saying enough and we should make sure we're not guilty of this.
We're not any of us focusing enough on digital.
Digital is a huge part of the future of news.
CNN is the world leader in digital.
If we are talking about any other programming genre everyone would be all over the digital store.
News they should be even more focused on that.
That's another key focus for CNN.
It's a major area of strength for the company both here against its domestic rivals that leads pretty strongly in online news and globally.
And so that's part of the reason why we're investing.
Thanks Vasily and thanks everybody for joining us today.
As always we're available for any follow-ups.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Time Warner Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
My name is Joe and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at Time Warner.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Time Warner's Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
This morning we issued 2 press releases one detailing our results for the fourth quarter and full year and the other providing our 2014 full year business outlook which excludes Time Inc.
Before we begin there are 3 items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that is available on our website.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
And lastly in the fourth quarter the company separated its former network's reportable segment into 2 reportable segments: Turner and Home Box Office.
In addition during the fourth quarter the company changed the name of its Film and TV Entertainment reportable segment to Warner Bros.
and its publishing reportable segment to Time Inc.
The new presentation had no impact on the historical consolidated financial information previously reported by the company.
Thank you and I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Jeff? Thanks Mike and thanks for listening in this morning.
2013 was another very successful year for the company.
We grew adjusted operating income 8% adjusted earnings per share increased 16% we generated over $3.5 billion in free cash flow and we returned almost $5 billion to stockholders through buybacks and dividends.
These accomplishments were the result of a strategy that served us very well not just last year but for the past 5 years.
Between 2008 and 2013 we grew adjusted operating income at close to a double-digit compound annual growth rate and we turned that into average annual growth and adjusted EPS of more than 20% a year.
We've achieved that through a combination of solid revenue growth tight cost control and disciplined capital allocation.
In fact over that period we allocated nearly $20 billion to dividends and share repurchases.
As we announced this morning we anticipate another year of double-digit growth and adjusted EPS excluding Time Inc.
in 2014.
And we're committed to continue providing direct returns to stockholders as evidenced by the new $5 billion share repurchase authorization and 10% increase in our dividend approved by our board.
That marks the fifth straight year we've increased our dividend double-digits.
The consistency of our performance over the last few years is a result of our unwavering focus on the same key objectives that we've been talking to you about for quite a while.
First and foremost we're investing aggressively in the best content.
Second we're focused on harnessing technology and developing new business models to increase the value of our content to consumers and distributors and drive growth for our businesses.
Third we're increasing our presence in the most attractive international territories to take advantage of growing demand for our content outside the United States.
And fourth we're constantly striving to optimize our operating and capital efficiency to drive improved returns.
So let me briefly talk about the progress we made on each of those objectives in 2013 and how we have positioned ourselves for success in 2014 and beyond.
I'll start with our investment in great content and storytelling the heart of what we do.
At Turner we're significantly increasing our investments in programming particularly in originals to keep our networks at the very top of the industry.
TBS finished 2013 as the #1 cable network in prime time in adults 18 to 49 for the first time in over a decade.
The Big Bang Theory remains a big part of that success and was once again the #1 comedy on ad-supported cable.
But TBS has also been building a strong stable of original hits with Cougar Town Ground Floor Sullivan &amp; Son and Men at Work all among the top 10 original sitcoms on ad-supported cable this year.
And while TNT has hit a bit of a soft patch the past few months it still finished 2013 as the #2 cable network among adults 25 to 54 in total day and #4 in prime time among adults 18 to 49.
Four of TNT's hit shows Rizzoli &amp; Isles Major Crimes Falling Skies and Perception were among the top 15 originals in prime time on basic cable.
That's more top hits than any other basic cable network.
In 2014 TBS and TNT are going to increase their investment in high-quality originals by approximately 20% including some high-profile new launches from TNT later this year: The Last Ship Legends and Murder in the First.
Turner is also raising its game in high-profile sports.
Our March Madness coverage will include Elite Eight and Final Four games for the first time this year.
That bolsters a strong lineup of sports that already includes the NBA and Major League Baseball.
Adult Swim is also on a roll.
It had its highest viewership ever in 2013 growing its total day audience double-digits in audience 18 to 34 and finishing as the #1 cable network in that demo for the ninth straight year.
As Adult Swim has grown in popularity we've continued to expand its programming hours.
And in April we're going to add another expanding it to the 8 p.m.
hour.
In 2013 CNN overtook MSNBC as the #2 cable news network in total day viewership.
But we still have a lot of work to do.
In 2014 CNN is focused on remaining the place where viewers turn for breaking news revamping prime time broadening the programming schedule to better hold audiences during slower news cycles and extending its leadership in multi-platform news.
truTV had a dip in its performance in 2013 but it remained a top 20 basic cable network among men and we have a lot of confidence in the direction new leadership is taking it.
We think there's significant opportunity to both grow audience and better monetize its position as we refresh tru's programming in the second half of this year.
The strength of Turner's brands and success of our programming strategy have been reflected in our recent affiliate negotiations.
Since we last reported earnings we've signed 3 additional top 10 U.S.
distributors to long-term affiliate agreements.
That means that during this negotiating cycle we have now signed 7 of the top 10 distributors including 2 of the top 5.
All these deals have been consistent with our expectation that Turner will average double-digit growth in domestic subscription revenue over the next 3 years.
You will start to see the impact of many of those deals in the first quarter and given our progress to date we now have even more confidence in that multi-year outlook.
Now speaking of high-quality high-impact programming HBO remains in a league of its own.
This year HBO won 27 Primetime Emmy Awards the most of any network for the 12th year in a row and tied for the most Golden Globes of any network.
HBO's value to its viewers and distribution partners was evident in the continued growth in its subscriber base.
Last year HBO added almost 2 million subscribers in the U.S.
its highest increase in 17 years.
That included solid growth across both HBO and Cinemax.
HBO is going to up the ante again in 2014 increasing its original series hours and investment in original programming.
That includes returning hits like Game of Thrones Boardwalk Empire True Blood and Girls as well as 5 new series.
One of those True Detective is already looking like it will be one of HBO's biggest hits.
It premiered to critical acclaim last month and the cumulative audience for its first episode has already passed 10 million [ph] viewers.
We're also excited about The Leftovers a Warner Bros.
show from Damon Lindelof which debuts in June and could be the next big hit for HBO.
Now let's turn to Warner Bros.
It had a banner year creatively and commercially in film and television production leading the industry by practically any measure and recording the highest profits in its history.
Theatrically Warner Bros.
led both domestic and international box offices crossing $5 billion in global box office for the first time in its history.
That included 7 movies with more than $300 million in global box office led by hits such as the second installment of The Hobbit Gravity and Man of Steel.
Warner Bros.
films also received an industry-leading 21 Oscar nominations including Best Picture nominations for Gravity and for Her.
In 2014 we had another strong slate led by titles like the Lego Movie which opens this Friday; Edge of Tomorrow starring Tom Cruise; Jupiter Ascending from the Wachowskis; Godzilla; Christopher Nolan's Interstellar; and the final installment of The Hobbit.
In television production Warner Bros.
was also unrivaled in 2013.
Over the course of this TV season Warner's will have produced 32 shows for broadcast networks again more than any other studio.
Among adults 18 to 49 these shows include the #1 comedy in The Big Bang Theory the #1 unscripted show in The Voice and the #3 drama in The Following.
And including our production for cable networks Warner TV is producing over 60 shows in total this season.
Let me turn to our second area of strategic focus digital.
Our goal is to give consumers more ways to access our content on more platforms.
That will increase the value of our content to consumers bolster our existing businesses and open up additional opportunities for monetization.
For example Turner continues to lead in providing TV Everywhere rights to its distribution partners.
This last year Turner expanded its TV Everywhere offering to include live streaming of its networks in and out of the home.
And Turner is now working to provide modem-based authentication for TV Everywhere reducing the need for people to sign in.
As we've said in the past we think distributors need to accelerate the deployment of TV Everywhere capabilities invest in better consumer interfaces and simplify authentication.
Those will be key areas of focus for us in this year 2014.
Turner's digital efforts aren't limited to TV Everywhere.
For instance Bleacher Report grew its monthly unique visitors by almost 40% in 2013 and ended the year as a top 3 digital sports destination.
And CNN remained the #1 multi-platform provider of news in the U.S.
significantly outstripping its cable news peers and leading the industry the news industry in mobile users.
HBO continues to set the standard for the industry with its TV Everywhere apps HBO GO and MAX GO.
In 2013 active users of HBO GO grew over 30% and average monthly usage increased by double digits.
HBO GO is now available in 23 countries outside the U.S.
as well.
And HBO will be investing even more this year to make the HBO GO user experience even better.
In home entertainment Warner Bros.
is also making progress in improving the user experience for its digital products.
One of the most important initiatives on that front is UltraViolet the industry standard designed to make it easier for consumers to access their content on multiple platforms.
UltraViolet ended 2013 with more than 15 million accounts.
That's a 65% increase from the end of 2012.
Awareness still needs to improve but the consumers who use UltraViolet love it.
And we think more and more consumers will enjoy its benefits as retail support continues to increase.
You can see the impact that improving experience is having on consumer behavior in almost 50% growth in electronic sales for the industry last year.
That helped drive an increase in domestic consumer spending on home entertainment for the first time in 8 years.
With UltraViolet now available in 9 countries outside the U.S.
and plans to expand further we're hopeful we'll also see stabilization in international home video revenue over the next few years.
That's a perfect segue to our third strategic objective which is international growth.
Including HBO's unconsolidated ventures we generated nearly $10 billion in revenue outside the U.S.
in 2013.
That's 1/3 of our revenue.
We think there is a big opportunity to grow this over time given the increase in multi-channel TV penetration the expansion of premium and SVOD services into new territories and growth in theatrical screens in emerging markets.
And our biggest international business is at Warner Bros.
which generates nearly half its revenue from outside the U.S.
In 2013 Warner's grossed over $3 billion at the international box office with 10 movies grossing more than $100 million.
Warner's also continues to expand its international TV business with revenue approaching $1.5 billion in 2013.
Perhaps our biggest international opportunity is at our international networks.
Including HBO's unconsolidated joint ventures our international networks generated more than $3 billion in revenues and over $750 million in adjusted operating income in 2013.
Despite a continued drag from foreign exchange we're on track to take that to $1 billion in the next couple of years.
We're seeing particularly strong growth in Latin America where Turner grew its revenues double-digits and grew its profits by over 25%.
Latin America is also a source of strong growth for HBO which helped drive its international subscriber base up over 15% in 2013 to end the year with 84 million HBO subs outside the United States.
That means HBO ended the year with almost 130 million subs globally.
As we make these investments in content technology and international expansion our fourth objective is to improve our efficiency to help fund them.
To that end we announced last month the sale of our office space at Columbus Circle in New York.
Our intention is to relocate our headquarters and all our New York City-based operations to a new tower in the Hudson Yards development on the West Side of Manhattan beginning in late 2018.
That would include approximately 5 000 employees from across Time Warner Corporate HBO Turner and Warner Bros.
Moving into a dynamic new complex will foster even more collaboration and creativity across our businesses.
And by consolidating space from 7 buildings throughout the Metro area we'll be able to reallocate substantial savings to our primary business of creating valuable and engaging content for audiences around the world.
We're also pleased with the progress Time Inc.'s new management team is making in its preparations to become an independent publicly traded company and we remain on track to complete the spinoff in the second quarter of this year.
In closing we had a tremendous year in 2013.
We posted record financial results while investing aggressively for the future.
We also put in place the next generation of leaders with new CEOs at each of our divisions.
And with the decision to spin off Time Inc.
we set ourselves on a path to being a pure-play content company with an emphasis on video and television in particular.
So we're embarked on an exciting new phase for the company and with our strong brands leading scale and focused strategy I'm more confident than ever in our prospects to drive attractive growth in 2014 and for many years to come.
With that I want to turn it over to Howard for his first earnings call as our Chief Financial Officer.
Take it away Howard.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide of our presentation which is now available on our website.
As Mike noted we're breaking out HBO and Turner for the first time with these results.
As we become a smaller more TV-focused company we hope you will find the new presentation helpful.
Starting with consolidated results.
As Jeff discussed we had another great year in 2013 with revenues up 4% adjusted operating income up 8% and adjusted EPS up 16%.
Turner HBO and Warner Bros.
all posted record adjusted operating income.
And if you exclude Time Inc.
adjusted OI grew over 9% and adjusted EPS grew 19%.
We were able to achieve all that despite a slight dip in adjusted OI in the fourth quarter.
And that was largely related to the impairment of programming at Turner as well as the timing of programming and related marketing spending at Turner and HBO.
Even so we limited expense growth to 3% this year and drove margins up almost 100 basis points our fifth straight year of margin expansion.
Over those 5 years margins have increased over 600 basis points.
We remain intensely focused on managing our cost structure in order to free up resources to invest even more in our businesses.
And we expect that focus will allow us to continue to grow margins over the next several years.
Adjusted EPS was up slightly in the quarter and 16% for the year our fifth straight year of double-digit adjusted EPS growth.
And that was despite a drag on this year's earnings due to equity losses from CME.
Along with our strong full year operating performance growth benefited from a lower effective tax rate and $3.7 billion in share repurchases.
So combining our repurchases with $1.1 billion in dividends we returned almost $5 billion to stockholders in 2013.
This is an increase of more than 10% year-over-year and exceeded our free cash flow by more than 35%.
And as evidenced by the dividend increase and new repurchase authorization we announced this morning we remain committed to delivering significant direct returns to shareholders.
So we're really pleased with our performance in 2013 and we feel great about how we are positioned going into 2014 and beyond.
As you saw this morning for the first time we are providing a full year outlook for the company excluding Time Inc.
Following a spinoff which we expect will occur in the second quarter Time Inc.
will be reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements and will no longer be reflected in our adjusted EPS.
Excluding Time Inc.
we anticipate another year of double-digit growth in adjusted EPS.
I'll provide additional context around our outlook as we go through the presentation.
Now turning to the segment highlights.
I'll begin at Turner where we achieved record adjusted operating income for the year despite a slight decline in the fourth quarter.
Advertising revenues grew 5% for the year and a modest 1% in the quarter a little lighter than we had originally expected.
And that was due to a combination of softer-than-expected ratings and a weak scatter market in November.
Domestic advertising was flat in the quarter.
That included mid-single-digit growth at the entertainment networks including kids and young adults.
Domestic news declined double-digits in the quarter owing to the comparison against the 2012 U.S.
presidential election and ongoing softness in the news advertising marketplace.
International advertising was up modestly in the quarter.
That reflected healthy growth in Latin America while performance was softer elsewhere particularly in Asia and international news.
Looking ahead to the first quarter of 2014 we anticipate total advertising to grow in the mid- to high-single-digits.
Scatter pricing is up high-single to low double-digits over the upfront though ratings will likely remain somewhat of a drag on our performance.
Also keep in mind that we will be airing 2 NCAA Elite Eight games which we expect to provide a boost of around 200 to 300 basis points to total ad growth in the quarter.
Similarly second quarter ad growth will benefit by around 300 to 400 basis points from the airing of 2 Final Four games.
That revenue will come with additional expenses such that the net impact will probably be a slight drag on adjusted OI.
Moving on.
Subscription revenues were up 6% in the quarter and 5% for the year and that included an FX drag of approximately 100 basis points for both periods.
Excluding the impact of FX international Subscription revenue grew double-digits in both the fourth quarter and for the year and Latin America was once again our strongest region.
As we look forward we should start to see the benefits of Turner's domestic affiliate renewals in the first quarter.
We also continue to see healthy subscriber dynamics in international territories though FX headwinds remain a drag there.
Taken together we anticipate an acceleration in our Subscription revenue growth into the high single-digits.
Adjusted operating income was up 6% for the year but down 3% in the quarter.
The decline in the fourth quarter was a result of a significant increase in programming expenses which grew 12%.
That growth included around $70 million of programming impairments related to our decision to stop airing certain programming due to its poor performance.
We also significantly increased our investment in original programming and related marketing spend at our domestic networks in the quarter.
Even with the ramp-up in programming and marketing spend in the fourth quarter for the year programming expenses were up just 6% and we limited total expense growth to 4%.
And we were able to do that by keeping SG&amp;A essentially flat reflecting our continued commitment to tightly managing overhead costs.
So all in all we had another good year at Turner.
Excluding programming impairments adjusted operating income would have grown about 8% for the year and margins would have expanded over 100 basis points.
And we think we're in great position to grow at attractive levels in 2014 and beyond.
Moving on to HBO.
We had another year of healthy margin expansion and strong growth in adjusted operating income.
Subscription revenues were up 8% in the quarter and 6% for the year.
And the consolidation of HBO Asia and HBO Nordic contributed around 400 basis points to the growth in the quarter and approximately 100 basis points for the year.
Domestically we had relatively steady Subscription revenue growth throughout the year.
And as Jeff mentioned HBO and Cinemax together added almost 2 million domestic subscribers in 2013.
Keep in mind the majority of these subscriber additions are non-revenue-generating.
Still the subscriber gains reflect very healthy demand for HBO.
So as we look ahead we feel good about the trajectory of Subscription revenues.
Turning to content revenues.
We saw a 9% drop in the quarter and that was mostly due to soft demand for home video library product.
However we continue to see very healthy demand for the licensing of our content internationally and these revenues were up solidly for the year.
HBO has been investing significant resources in its international operations in recent years and including HBO's unconsolidated joint ventures international accounted for approximately 1/4 of HBO's total revenue in 2013.
That was helped by solid double-digit growth in subscribers with particularly strong growth in Latin America.
Given positive trends we anticipate that international will be an even larger portion of HBO's future -- business in the future.
Adjusted operating income was down 4% in the quarter but would have been flat without the consolidation of HBO's international properties I noted earlier.
On the cost side programming expenses grew 12% with HBO Asia and HBO Nordic contributing nearly 800 basis points to that growth.
Increased spending on originals also contributed to programming expense growth and we ramped up marketing spend in the quarter to support our original programming lineup including high-profile first quarter launches such as True Detective.
Despite the drop in the fourth quarter adjusted operating income grew 8% for the year and margins expanded 130 basis points.
So we had another good year financially while growing our subscribers significantly both in the U.S.
and internationally.
And that gives us a lot of confidence about the opportunity for continued attractive growth in the years ahead.
Turning now to Warner's where the studio ended a record year with a record quarter.
Adjusted operating income grew 4% in the quarter and 7% for the year to over $1.3 billion.
Theatrically we had a tremendous year ending #1 at both the domestic and international box office.
Our fourth quarter theatrical results were highlighted by the strong performances of Gravity and the second installment of The Hobbit.
On the TV side revenue and associated profits were down for the year in part due to the comparisons against the syndication of The Mentalist in 2012.
But Warner's remained the industry leader in shows produced for broadcast networks and we continue to see healthy demand for our content both domestically and internationally.
So TV production remained the largest contributor to the segment and we feel good about the trends here.
The performance of our video games slate was also a meaningful contributor to growth this year led by the fourth quarter release of Batman: Arkham Origins and continued strong results of the LEGO franchise.
This is an area where we have been able to leverage our brands and IP to develop new franchises and where we see the opportunity for further growth in the coming years.
Across theatrical and TV home entertainment revenue declined 6% in the quarter and 3% for the year.
Both of those included a pretty tough comparison to the release of The Dark Knight Rises in the fourth quarter of 2012.
In addition we have seen some softness in catalog.
However we're seeing very positive trends in digital across both theatrical and television product with electronic sell-through up over 50% in the quarter and over 40% for the year.
That mirrors trends in the broader industry as initiatives like UV that we have championed are starting to have a significant impact.
After 8 years of declines in total consumer spending the industry grew 1% in 2013.
That's a reflection of digital revenue growing fast enough to make up for physical declines.
For context Warner Bros.
digital revenue for theatrical and TV product grew double-digits to almost $1 billion in 2013 and we expect it to grow double-digits again in 2014.
Putting it altogether Warner's had another great year and once again set a high bar for itself.
In what is often referred to as a mature business Warner's has managed to grow its adjusted operating income at a 10% CAGR over the past 5 years.
And while that won't be achievable every year we have great confidence in our ability to continue to grow the business over time.
Now on to Time Inc.
where challenging conditions continued to weigh on results for both the quarter and the year.
Revenue in the quarter included the positive impact of the inclusion of American Express Publishing Corporation which we acquired in October and the negative impact from the shift of an issue of both People and Sports Illustrated into the third quarter.
Excluding these items revenues would have declined 6% in the quarter with advertising down 5% subscription down 8% and other down 4%.
The underlying drop in advertising revenue reflected softness in print advertising both domestically and internationally.
Digital advertising revenue was up modestly for both the quarter and the year.
Similarly subscription revenues included the impact of declines across both domestic and international titles with newsstand remaining an area of particular softness.
Adjusted operating income declined 14% in the quarter despite a drop in expenses when excluding the American Express Publishing titles.
Looking ahead to 2014 the operating environment remains challenging.
So excluding the impact of our acquisition of American Express Publishing Corporation we anticipate continued declines in advertising and circulation revenues.
Within that context the new management team announced yesterday that they are beginning a process to make significant changes to the way Time Inc.
operates with a goal of stabilizing the business and freeing up resources to invest in growth initiatives.
As part of their efforts to reengineer the company Time Inc.
will dissolve their operating clusters to help make them flatter more nimble and better able to respond to a rapidly changing landscape.
To that end we anticipate taking restructuring charges of around $150 million in the first half around 2/3 of which we expect to hit in the first quarter.
Excluding restructuring charges we expect modest declines in adjusted operating income both in the first quarter and for the full year.
And that's largely a function of continuing revenue pressure and incremental public company and stock compensation expenses that Time Inc.
will incur this year.
They'll have more to say about their plans as we get closer to the spinoff.
One important decision we made is Time Inc.'s capital structure.
While there could be some minor adjustments for working capital we intend to spin off Time Inc.
with a net debt of around $1.3 billion.
We think that level will allow sufficient flexibility to both invest in the business and provide direct returns to stockholders while also optimizing its cost of capital and delivering attractive levered equity returns to investors.
Moving on to the next slide which shows our outlook excluding Time Inc.
for 2014.
As I noted before we had another great year in 2013 and we feel very good about how we are positioned for this year.
At Turner we'll benefit from the domestic affiliate renewal cycle which should drive a nice improvement in Subscription revenue growth.
At the same time we're expecting an increase in programming expense growth primarily due to the airing of the NCAA Final Four the first year of our new Major League Baseball contract and increased investments in originals.
And while international growth remains a positive driver at this point FX appears likely to remain a drag.
Taken all together we anticipate Turner's adjusted OI growth will accelerate significantly in 2014.
At HBO we're encouraged by the continued strength and demand for our services and that should help Subscription revenue growth.
That will be balanced against an increase in programming expense growth related to continued investment in originals and the addition of a full slate of Summit films to our theatrical line up.
We'll also be investing even more in technology as we develop the next generation of HBO GO.
Even with these investments we're anticipating another year of solid growth in adjusted operating income.
At Warner Bros.
we obviously have very challenging comparisons coming off a record year.
So it could be difficult to grow.
But we think we have a great film slate and we anticipate an improvement in TV performance given strong global demand and the syndication of Mike &amp; Molly.
That all gives us confidence that 2014 will be another great year for the studio.
So looking across all 3 segments we're set up for a very good year from an operating perspective.
One thing to keep in mind is that intercompany eliminations are likely to be somewhat of a drag this year due to increased sales of product from Warner Bros.
to both Turner and HBO.
That's a pretty big shift from 2013 when we benefited from a positive swing in this line.
We also anticipate a higher effective tax rate as our 2013 rate included several favorable audit settlements and the recognition of additional foreign tax credit carryovers.
So between a swing in eliminations and the higher effective tax rate we estimate the impact on 2014 adjusted EPS to be $0.15 to $0.20.
Despite that we expect another very good year in 2014.
We see a tremendous amount of opportunity across our businesses and we're investing aggressively in our industry-leading brands to drive increased scale and long-term growth.
At the same time we're tightly managing our non-revenue-generating expenses in order to provide attractive near- to medium-term financial results.
All of that is reflected in our outlook for low double-digit growth in adjusted EPS.
Turning to the next slide which looks at our free cash flow.
We generated very strong free cash flow of $3.5 billion in 2013.
That's up almost 20% versus 2012 and that was mostly due to strong growth in adjusted operating income.
Also cash taxes cash interest and capital expenditures were all lower year-over-year.
The decline in cash taxes was primarily a result of tax law extenders that were passed by Congress in January of 2013.
That's been a positive driver all year.
And the decline in cash interest was largely due to slightly lower cost of debt and debt balances as we paid off higher cost maturities early in the year and eventually replaced them with longer-term maturities in the fourth quarter.
Our use of working capital increased slightly as a result of higher participations at Warner Bros.
Excluding Time Inc.
we generated around $3.1 billion of free cash flow in 2013.
For 2014 keep in mind that as a result of the expiration of certain favorable tax legislation and lower foreign tax credits our cash taxes are likely to be higher.
In addition we're now carrying additional debt which will result in increased cash interest expense.
Still we should have another year of very strong free cash flow.
Turning to the final slide which looks at our net debt.
We ended 2013 with $18.3 billion of net debt and our leverage ratio was 2.4x.
During the year we took advantage of continued favorable market conditions to strengthen our balance sheet by extending the maturity of our $5 billion credit facilities to 2018 and issuing $1 billion of new long-term debt.
In addition to investing in our businesses we deployed just under $500 million in strategic M&amp;A transactions.
Also as I previously mentioned we returned almost $5 billion of capital to our stockholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
And as Jeff discussed earlier we recently sold our office space in Time Warner Center and intend to relocate our corporate headquarters to the Hudson Yards development at the end of 2018.
That will result in a net inflow of around $1.1 billion in 2014.
Over time we will essentially reinvest the proceeds into our new building.
And until we move we will lease space in Time Warner Center.
The transaction will have a negligible impact on our earnings over the next few years but we expect significant savings when we ultimately consolidate our New York City footprint at our new headquarters.
So I am pleased with how we executed in our capital plan in 2013 and we're off to a good start in 2014.
As part of our planning for 2014 and beyond we have decided to increase our net leverage ratio target from 2.5x to up to 2.75x with the expectation that we will get there over the next 2 years.
In part this decision is a reflection that after the Time Inc.
spinoff we will have a less cyclical business mix with better secular trends.
We think modestly increasing our leverage will lower our blended cost of capital while affording us additional flexibility that we can use to make investments in our businesses and to continue providing a significant level of direct returns to our stockholders.
At the same time we believe it will allow us to maintain favorable access to the capital markets across a variety of potential macroeconomic scenarios.
We do not anticipate the change will have an impact on our credit ratings and we remain committed to maintaining solid investment-grade credit ratings moving forward.
In that context I want to take a moment to discuss our capital allocation priorities which are not changing.
Our first priority is always to maintain a strong balance sheet so that we can fully invest in our businesses.
Next we always look at M&amp;A opportunities that present themselves but we have sufficient scale so we don't need to do anything.
Potential transactions need to provide strategic benefits with reasonable execution risk and adequate financial return.
That means risk-adjusted returns need to be more attractive than other uses of capital including share repurchases.
Beyond that we are committed to providing meaningful direct returns to stockholders with a significant and growing dividend and continued share repurchases.
If you look back over the last 5 years you'll see what that approach has yielded.
Since 2008 we have generated close to $15 billion in free cash flow and we paid out close to $5 billion in dividends repurchased close to $15 billion of our shares or 32% of our base.
And we spent around $3 billion on acquisitions.
And we've been able to do that while maintaining our credit ratings and retaining the ability to access capital markets on attractive terms.
So we feel good about our approach and intend to continue on a similar path moving forward.
With that I'll turn it back to Mike to start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Howard.
Joe can you please open up the queue for Q&amp;A? [Operator Instructions] Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question here is from Mr.
Michael Nathanson from MoffettNathanson.
I have one for Howard and one for Jeff.
And Howard welcome to the job.
Before John left John had signaled that programming costs in '14 at the networks would run I think in the high single-digit range.
And now that you have separated out HBO and Turner I wonder if you could help fine-tune that growth rate by division for '14? Michael thank you.
Yes you're right.
For context we had actually set expectations for mid- to high-single-digit in programming costs in the network segment level.
And that hasn't actually changed.
But when you translate it to our current segments it's going to translate to more like high single-digit growth at Turner and mid single-digit growth at HBO.
And the faster growth at Turner is really basically driven by sports.
So for example if you took a look this year we're going to have the first year of our baseball deal and the first year we're going to be airing Elite Eight games and Final Four games.
So if you look ahead also to 2016 and 2017 we're going to anticipate an increase based on the NBA package.
But all of this is consistent with what we've talked about in the past.
And Mike we think by continuing to drive the revenue growth and tightly managing the rest of our costs we're going to be in a position to continue to drive margins at both Turner and HBO.
Okay.
And then let me ask one for Jeff.
This is a bit about TNT strategy.
In the past couple of weeks we've seen 3 off-network procedural dramas Person of Interest Elementary Blue Bloods that may have worked in the past on TNT go someplace else in cable.
And I wondered the decision not to acquire those shows.
What does that say about either procedurals your pipeline or kind of -- or the value of the shows? So typically you guys have acquired procedurals and this time you didn't.
And so what's behind that strategy? Okay.
Thanks.
We still think that the mix of sports originals and acquired shows is the right strategy.
And just to your question if you look at the data out there 5 of the top 10 scripted shows on broadcast in the '13 to '14 season are procedurals.
And 2 of the top 5 cable networks in prime time last year had significant numbers of procedurals.
So the evidence suggests that consumers still have a strong appetite for procedurals.
And remember they are still quite important to filling the programming day and to helping build a schedule on which you can then launch originals.
But we're expanding TNT into more serialized and unscripted series.
So you can expect the mix to shift a little bit on procedurals but the value of procedurals and their place whether on broadcast or cable continues to be there.
And you could certainly see hit procedurals coming that are going up instead of down in terms of the audience and interest that they drive.
We'll probably be a little more selective on them going forward for TNT.
But in general it's really an evolution of the mix and the basics pretty much -- well as a strong point for TNT pretty much remain.
The next question comes from Mr.
Richard Greenfield from BTIG.
LLC Research Division</strong> On Netflix's earnings interview Reed Hastings stated that the addressable market for Netflix was somewhere in the range of 60 million to 90 million subscribers domestically well above the 33 million subs they're currently at.
I'm curious.
You talked about total subscribers I think that includes HBO and Cinemax.
Where did HBO end the year specifically in terms of domestic subscribers? And how do you think about growth as you look out over the next several years between subscriber growth and affiliate fee increases? And then just a tack-on question because I think it relates to the margin.
You've been investing pretty heavily in Cinemax.
I know you don't break out profitability but is there any way to think about as you're investing in shows like Banshee and new projects how much is that 37% EBITDA margin on the HBO division weighed down by that ramp-up in Cinemax? Okay.
Thanks Rich.
Let's go to the first one on HBO and Cinemax.
Well first of all both of them were up.
HBO subs are about 2/3 of the total.
In total HBO and Cinemax together we added 2 million subs last year.
We ended the year with over 43 million domestic subs.
And remember we also have 85 million-or-so overseas up quite a bit last year so 130 million worldwide.
If you look at the investments in programming and I'll take Cinemax in a second I like to start a little bit at HBO.
We definitely think and we're doing it that we can grow the sub base on both of them both domestically and overseas.
You can see the result of those investments in programming in the sub growth we've had in the last couple of years.
HBO still commands very attractive rate increases a very important part of what cable telco satellite companies offer every month.
And we have a pretty controllable cost base and I'll get to the Cinemax question.
So we do expect continued healthy growth in adjusted operating income as we've been doing.
That's -- and that's if you add international to that with really fast sub growth it gets even better.
International's over 15% in 2013 and that was after an increase of more than 35% in '12 and 25% in '11.
As we've been saying we've been launching new territories like the Netherlands for HBO Nordic and India and we do think those provide additional growth opportunities for the brand overseas.
We also and you shouldn't forget this license our HBO content in about 150 countries.
That's on top of all the international subs.
And the demand there for HBO programs is really helping.
So -- and if you put that all together a pretty healthy opportunity for HBO going forward.
To your Cinemax question this is what are we doing on programming? We think Cinemax is an underappreciated asset.
In 2013 we actually had more viewing at Cinemax than at Starz and basically the same viewing at Cinemax as at Showtime.
It's very profitable for us but it's even more important for our distribution partners as a companion brand to HBO.
We think there's an opportunity to make Cinemax with all that reach and viewership stronger.
And original programming clearly becomes more important to premium customers as VOD gets more used both on TV and on Internet devices.
So we are going to invest in original programming.
It's quite economical with Cinemax.
We had a big success with the third season of Strike Back.
It averaged over 2.75 million viewers.
The second season of Banshee did over 2.5 million viewers.
That's on a base of -- well I'm not going to give you that one but this year we're going to be launching The Knick.
Stay tuned everybody for that.
We're going to add more series in the future.
But to your margin question we really run HBO and Cinemax together.
And on that basis we have been and we will be growing margins over time.
And we think the Cinemax investment in programming is a pretty good leverage point for revenue growth at Cinemax and at HBO.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just as a point of clarification when you said international up over 15% in HBO subscribers does that exclude the consolidations like is that an organic growth rate for international subscribers? Yes.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You guys talked a couple of times in the prepared remarks about feeling good about the trajectory of Subscription revenue growth at HBO and that's at the same time you noted the 2 million subs were not revenue drivers last year.
So can you just help us understand those 2 comments? And maybe what's happening in the business from your distribution partner front that makes you feel good about an accelerating revenue outlook at HBO which seems to be what you're hinting at.
I don't want put words in your mouth but I was wondering if you could add some more color there.
Yes you're right in what you're thinking.
We think in -- for outlook and for '14 we're in a great position from a content position on both of them and we think that's going to yield to sub growth rate increase growth and international growth.
So in the U.S.
we grew 8% in the fourth quarter and 6% in the -- for the year 2013.
That did include a benefit of around 400 basis points -- sorry overall I'm saying.
That included a benefit about 400 basis points from the consolidation of HBO Asia and Nordic in the quarter.
And it did -- it added about 100 basis points for the year.
So think of it as we ended up around 5%.
We did see the rates were pretty steady and increasing domestically in the mid single-digit range.
There were healthy sub gains up 2 million subs in the U.S.
more overseas.
As we said on the call those did not translate into as much revenue growth due to the mix of sub additions.
A lot of the sub growth was in the highest-performing affiliates.
The sub trends outside the U.S.
have been strong big opportunities we just said.
And including the unconsolidated JVs international subs increased by double digits in 2013.
So does that give you the color that you were looking for? I do want to emphasize that we expect improvement but we're not looking for a dramatic step-up domestically but we think it will be up in terms of revenue growth along with the sub growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I could just follow up with a quick Warner Bros.
question.
You guys have talked about the licensing business your SVOD revenues in the past.
I want to say $350 million-or-so a year maybe a little more.
How did that shake out in '13? And given your Netflix output deal which is pretty unique at Warner Bros.
what's the outlook look like for '14 and for the backlog? Or any expectations directionally on how that business is trending? All right.
So as a starting point we generated around $375 million in '13.
That was up slightly from '12.
We think it's at the top of our competitive set and I do want to point out that does not include the revenue -- SVOD revenue for the CW Network which is pretty significant.
So we do remain in active negotiations with all the major players.
We think we can grow on -- above that in '14 pretty healthy plans we have for that.
And a fair amount of that is probably going to come from international territories.
Everyone I think should keep it in perspective.
This is a -- it's a good growing but small portion of our revenue.
It's only around 10% of our TV syndication revenue last year.
That would be equal to about 3% of total film and TV revenue.
And maybe more important what's very clear is that there is a consumer demand for this content in an on-demand environment.
So all particularly true for past seasons of serialized shows which had been less effective as we all know in syndication on linear schedule.
So we think that we're going to be able to monetize effectively and have increases in this category going forward.
The next question comes from Mr.
Doug Mitchelson from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus on affiliate fees as well.
A couple of questions for Jeff.
First Jeff did you see a noticeable impact from bundling HBO on a video-light tier.
I know it's early days.
I think Comcast had a broadband/broadcast HBO sort of video-light offer.
And to the extent it is helping should we expect a meaningful expansion in the number of distributors that might launch that type of offer? All right on the Comcast Internet offer it's a relatively new offer it's pretty targeted but we're very supportive of it.
We've been saying for a while that it makes sense to work with distributors to increase penetration of HBO on a mutually beneficial way.
Broadband-only is a good thing for people to try.
It could be an effective way to reach the 8 million to 10 million homes that have broadband without multichannel.
We don't think and we'll see that it's going to have a material effect on the demand for the basic package.
People that want that full TV/video package with broadband and all that are probably going to continue to do that.
But to the extent that either some of them move this other way that's fine with us.
Research Division</strong> The -- and I guess the second area is in the past you talked about sort of an over-the-top virtual MVPD that you didn't see a viable business model and you didn't want to license your networks unless you did see a viable business model.
And there's been more progress this year.
I think Intel was reportedly close to some deals before they sold and DISH is close to doing something pretty interesting with Disney on this front and Sony is talking about launching something over-the-top this year.
Has your view about the viability of a virtual MVPD business model changed at all? And do you think there could be activity even in the Time Warner front in 2014? Well we were -- yes.
I mean it hasn't changed much.
There's been more talk than action.
Specifically if you look at Sony Verizon and we talk to all of them all the time.
Fine we'll evaluate each of those as they come.
We are absolutely open to opportunistically grow our business.
We're not philosophically opposed to it.
If there's an offering a virtual one that serves consumers and that they want and if it is something that we think is sustainable economically for us and not something where you get a little money there and you cannibalize bigger money somewhere else then yes that would be something we would consider or maybe do.
We just haven't seen anybody come forward with a viable powerful consumer offering yet.
The next question comes from Jessica Reif Cohen from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 topics.
The first is capital allocation.
I'm not sure how the timing of the $5 billion when you would utilize that.
And I guess as part of capital allocation I know Howard touched on M&amp;A.
But -- and I guess Jeff what's your view on -- are you strategically complete? And if not what parts of the business do you think you're missing? I mean you've gotten so much smaller over the last few years would you like to get bigger? [indiscernible] The first one what's the first one? It's capital the pace of the buyback.
The pace of the buyback...
Yes so Jessica thank you.
The pace of the buyback is going to really be driven by a couple of different factors.
It's going to be driven based on the cash flow generation which as I pointed out in my earlier remarks we think it's going to be strong next year.
And it's also going to be dependent upon what comes along in terms of M&amp;A and how much we spend in terms of M&amp;A activity.
We just raised the leverage target as we just announced and we're not going to give specific guidance on the buyback itself but all of those things together are going to be factors that drive it.
And I would say sitting here today you should expect to see probably the same pretty much pace as we had last year.
On M&amp;A we pretty much have said what our philosophy is.
We've tried to be disciplined spent close to $0.5 billion on acquisitions in '13 a little under $700 million in 2012 and about $400 million in 2011.
So we've done things where we think that they both have returns and strengthen our position competitively strategically.
We do have as both I think -- well Howard said it we do have sufficient scale in all the things we're doing now so we don't have to do anything.
That -- but since we do have scale we're a pretty effective buyer if something comes up where we could combine it with what we're doing and increase the profitability or sustainability of whatever we buy.
We basically look through the filters of execution strategic fit competitive augmentation and the risk of whether we know how to manage the thing and whether it's really going to work out.
We've been mostly focused on the deals we have done on international opportunities particularly in the network side local television production and games.
Those that have tended to be smaller in nature but that's -- we don't have an inability to consider the larger things if they fit the criteria that I was talking about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second -- can I just ask one more that's on -- with a second subject? If that's okay? I just want to ask one more question.
So you said that Warner Bros.
will produce 60 shows this year and obviously there are others producing -- sorry? 61.
Research Division</strong> Oh sorry sorry.
So roughly 60 while others are producing and there are clearly new startups.
So the question is given the increase in original TV production supply are you concerned at all about either how the market will absorb all these shows how the market will digest all of this output? Well thank you for that question.
The reason we're at 61 shows is the market is coming to our door and asking us to make the shows and sell it to them.
So we've had a very vigorous demand and increase in basically what we've been doing on all 4 broadcast networks.
On pretty much all the different cable basic cable networks all of them are doing more shows.
So on your 60 we have 32 shows on broadcast.
That's the most -- we have of those the most returning shows we've had in over 30 years.
We are -- W -- Warner Bros.
TV is the leading supplier of prime time programming to broadcasters again this year.
So as the TV networks the broadcast ones solidify their economics with retrans and so forth it has worked -- I mean they'd certainly want to produce shows that they themselves make but they also want a healthy supply of quality shows to strengthen their networks.
And as the basically second supplier to all of them it's been a good position for us.
The cable network business whether -- not just TNT TBS but FX USA A&amp;E AMC a pretty good set of demands coming from them too.
So it is -- at this point TV production and the revenue support for those shows that you can make if you're the producer overseas from international licensing and from SVOD is going up so it's a very strong business with very good returns.
And it looks like our next question comes from Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on all your commentary on HBO and then a quick one on Turner.
On HBO how much do you think the pricing strategy of other premium channels or SVOD providers like Netflix influence your ability to sort of push for higher rates if at all? And then on Turner just any more color Howard maybe you can give us on the advertising revenue in the quarter.
I know you cited a dip in the industry demand and then of course the CNN challenge is a tough comp.
But the ratings at TBS do they -- I guess how much did they influence the number? And you seem more optimistic about the outlook.
Is that also -- does that assume some further improvement at TBS? All right.
So on HBO first obviously it's been sitting in a package with pay TV like Starz Showtime basic cable for many years.
So that's always been competitive and it hasn't -- there's no change in the pricing environment for HBO in that regard.
If you ask about as you did the new subscription entries whether it's Netflix Amazon Hulu Plus et cetera most of those subs are complementary and doing something where in fact the highest -- if you look at -- I think Netflix viewing for one is higher in HBO homes.
HBO viewing is higher in Netflix homes.
So those are add-ons.
Those are homes that want both the demand for -- not just pay TV but basic TV.
So far whether it's cord-cutting or cord-shaving not apparently affected by the additional online offerings which are good and offer more library than current.
So all that's fitting together pretty well.
And no we don't see any discernible effect on subs or pricing in HBO from SVOD.
And Alexia it's Howard.
So as we did say in the call advertising was up 1% and that included mid single-digit growth in domestic entertainment including kids and young adults.
It was domestic news that was down.
It was down in the mid-teens and that's due to the political comp.
As far as ratings there was a ratings impact from TNT and to a lesser extent TBS.
It contributed a bit against our expected growth.
And as we mentioned there was a slow patch in scatter kind of in November.
If you just look ahead to the first quarter though we are seeing scatter pricing for the entertainment's up in the high-single to low-double-digits over the upfront.
And we're seeing strength across a pretty broad array of categories so food packages goods fast food auto and demand for sports continues to look really strong.
And additionally we mentioned that we're going to be airing the Elite Eight games in the first quarter.
We didn't have that last year.
And we're also going -- it could be a 200 300 400 [ph] basis-point impact in the quarter.
And at CNN the comparisons do get easier in the first quarter but we are still seeing relatively soft demand.
Overall the one place where we're going to see some improvement is international due to easier news comps.
And in terms of the Olympics we do see some impact including on sports but we think it's going to be pretty modest.
I think if you take it all the way though what we're going to end up with and we're counting -- expecting kind of an acceleration in that growth to the mid- to high-single-digits as I mentioned.
Thank you.
Thank you everybody.
Thank you everybody for joining us this morning.
And if you have any follow-up questions we're here to answer them.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the Time Warner Inc.
first quarter 2014 earnings call.
My name is Joe and I will be your operator for today's call.
(Operator Instructions) I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Time Warner's first quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued two press releases one detailing our results for the first quarter and the other updating our 2014 full year business outlook which as a reminder excludes Time Inc.
Before we begin there are two items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that is available on our website.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Thank you.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Jeff? Thanks Mike and thanks for listening in this morning.
We had an excellent first quarter.
Excluding Time Inc.
revenues grew 10% adjusted operating income increased 12% and adjusted earnings per share was up 26%.
We also generated over $1.7 billion in free cash flow.
For just one quarter into the year that provides a pretty good indication of the return we can achieve on our investments in programming and of the growth potential of our businesses.
And as a result of our strong start to the year this morning we raised our outlook for 2014 adjusted EPS to grow in the low-teens.
That's not an unusual level of growth for us.
Over the past five years we have grown adjusted EPS at least in the low-teens every year.
Our growth in any given year maybe higher or lower depending on factors like the timing of new affiliate agreements or investments in program but on average we think we can continue to grow adjusted EPS in the low to mid-teens if not better over at least the next three to four years.
We have an established track record of turning solid operating growth into even more attractive returns for our shareholders and we're extremely confident we can continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
Our confidence is underpinned by the strength of our brands by industry-leading scale across our businesses and by the increasing value of our engaging and globally relevant content.
All of those factors have been evident in our negotiations during Turner's current domestic affiliate renewal cycle.
In fact based on the deals we've already completed we anticipate double-digit growth in domestic subscription revenue at Turner will extend another two years beyond the 2013 through 2016 period that we previously discussed with you.
That's double-digit growth on average over five years and it provides a lot of visibility into our earnings power over that time period.
Given our confidence in our growth prospects and strong cash generation year-to-date we have decided to accelerate our share repurchases starting this quarter and we now expect to reach our target net leverage of 2.75x by the end of this year.
Now I'd like to spend a few minutes walking through some recent operational highlights.
Nowhere was the growing popularity and improving economics of our content more evident this quarter than at Warner Bros.
In the first quarter of 2014 Warner has picked up right where it left off last year finishing number one at the domestic box office and collecting more Academy Awards than all the other major studios combined led by seven for Gravity including Best Director for Alfonso Cuarón.
Not bad for a movie that also finished with over $700 million at the global box office.
Warner's performance at the box office in the first quarter was a result of its continued development of franchise films with global appeal including The LEGO Movie which was the quarter's number one release at the domestic box office and 300: Rise of an Empire.
Warner is already working on another LEGO Movie for release in 2017.
We think that LEGO has the ability to be an evergreen franchise that along with DC Comics and with J.K.
Rowling's new series of films will underpin the economics of our film business for many many years.
As you may know our relationship with LEGO also includes important video game and television properties underscoring our ability to monetize high-quality intellectual property across the company.
So with a strong start to the year our promising slate of movies for this summer and a great line up of television shows to be announced at the upfront in a couple of weeks Warner is in position to have another great year in 2014.
HBO also got off to a red-hot start this year with True Detective garnering the largest ever viewership for a freshman series on the HBO network.
The success of True Detective means that HBO's current line up includes four of its top five highest rated shows ever.
Of course that includes Game of Thrones which has become a global phenomenon.
Season 4 premiered to HBO's largest audiences since the Sopranos Finale and Season 3's home video release had the highest first month sales of any HBO show ever in HBO's history.
And if anything Game of Thrones has taught us a vital lesson decline any wedding invitation in Westeros.
The success of HBO's groundbreaking original storytelling has always been a testament to visionary creators such as the Game of Thrones' team David Benioff and D.B.
Weiss True Detective's Nick Pizzolatto and Silicon Valley's Mike Judge and the fantastic actors that they attract as well as the strength of HBO's brand and best-in-class marketing.
But I think HBO's record audiences are also a result of its leadership in making its content available on-demand and across all major platforms.
We firmly believe that if you have great content giving consumers control over where when and on what platform they watch it will drive increased consumption and value.
That's the promise of TV Everywhere and there is no better example of that than HBO's success with HBO on-demand and HBO GO.
In keeping with the spirit of taking advantage of new platforms to connect with consumers and improve monetization HBO announced last week that it would be making a selection of its catalog programming available to Amazon Prime Instant Video.
We are hopeful that availability on Prime Instant Video will introduce additional consumers to the great content that HBO produces and will potentially drive sub-additions over time to the HBO network service.
And we plan to use additional revenue from the deal to invest even more in HBO's groundbreaking original programming and to further accelerate the development of next generation of HBO GO.
It's that combination of unrivaled content including the strongest slate of Hollywood movie hits and the use of the latest technology that has helped HBO to become the world's leading premium TV and subscription video-on-demand service.
Given the positive subscriber trends we've seen both in recent years and so far in 2014 we feel great about HBO's ability to drive continued growth for many years to come.
Turner also had a landmark start to the year bringing the Elite Eight and the Final Four to cable for the first time ever.
The NCAA Tournament continues to be a runaway success and its strong linear TV performance was accentuated by more than 40% growth in digital video streams for March Madness Live.
Like HBO GO March Madness Live is a great example of how TV Everywhere can enhance the consumer experience and the value of our networks through distributors.
And the success of the NCAA Tournament helped TBS maintain its number one position in ad supported cable among adults 18 to 49.
Similarly Adult Swim continues to lead the industry of attracting younger viewers.
Once again finishing the first quarter as the number one ad supported cable network in total day for adults 18 to 34.
To better take advantage of the growing demand for its distinctive content we recently expanded Adult Swim to the 8.00 PM hour.
We also have momentum at CNN which grew delivery in its key demo over 50% in March again demonstrating that it's the authoritative voice viewers turn to when news breaks.
Just as important CNN generated nearly 4 billion page views and 275 million video starts in March.
That's its biggest month ever for both metrics.
In a world where consumers increasingly look to digital products for their news CNN has a substantial lead on its cable news peers in cross platform unique users and actually has the largest number of monthly unique mobile users of any news service domestically and we're just getting started.
At its upfront earlier this month CNN introduced CNNx which represents a leap forward in interactive merits and it's a product that CNN is unique positioned to provide.
It's available today on your tablet and you'll start seeing it on set top boxes later this year.
We think it will be another real point of differentiation for CNN.
Despite these successes and having three of the top 10 cable networks in adults 18 to 49 in the first quarter we are not satisfied with the recent ratings and advertising performance at some of the Turner network.
At truTV for example we followed a couple of strong years with a significant drop off in performance.
But we have new leadership in place who just announced the slate of innovative unscripted programs that will start in May with The Carbonaro Effect and continue through this fall with shows like MOTOR CITY MASTERS Way Out West and Hair Jacked.
We think it's some of the best and most creative programming the network has ever done and that give us great confidence in truTV and in our ability to materially improve its monetization over time.
We've also had some challenges at TNT.
It was the top five cable network in prime time last year and it had some of the most popular originals on basic cable but it can and will do better.
Over the past few years we didn't take enough creative risk with its programming and as a result TNT has lost ground with younger viewers.
We've already started to address that with the new programming that you'll see this summer including The Last Ship Murder in the First and Legends.
These shows should also help TNT expand its audience with key male demos.
To be clear these types of changes take time and we won't get to where we want to be in the quarter or two.
But we've all seen that network performance tends to move in cycles.
And by virtue of its scale and our position as the world's leading producer of high quality television product TNT has accessed all the resources it needs.
We're confident and we're determined that we will see improvement as the year progresses and that we can drive growth in its audience and its economics over time.
At Time Inc.
the new management team has made great progress in preparing for success as an independent public company.
We are on track to complete the spin in the next month or so and you'll hear more about their plans as that date approaches.
So in closing I am really pleased with how we've started 2014.
We're making progress on our strategic initiatives across the company.
And at the same time our investments in great storytelling and journalism are paying off allowing us to produce very attractive financial results.
And with the global growth in demand for our content continuing unabated we think we're in a great position to grow at these kinds of attractive levels for a very long time.
And with that I'll turn it over to Howard.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide of our presentation which is now available on our website.
Given that we expect to complete the spin-off of Time Inc.
this quarter and our full year outlook excludes Time Inc.
I will focus my remarks on our company results prepared on the same basis.
Excluding Time Inc.
revenues were up 10% and we had leverage all the way down the income statement with adjusted operating income increasing 12% and adjusted EPS growing 26%.
Turner HBO and Warner Bros.
all posted record first quarter adjusted operating income.
So to reiterate what Jeff said we're off to a great start in 2014.
Adjusted operating income margins expanded 60 basis points despite a 9% increase in expenses and net expense growth was largely related to content investments at Warner Bros.
and Turner and the consolidation of HBO Asia and HBO Nordic.
SG&amp;A was flat in the quarter and it would have been down excluding the consolidations as we continue to focus on funding aggressive investments in programming by limiting growth in other expenses.
We were able to grow adjusted EPS even faster than adjusted operating income due mostly to our ongoing share repurchase program and improved results at our equity investments including HBO Latin America.
We also had a benefit of almost $40 million from recognition of interest income on a long-standing note receivable that was collected.
During the quarter we repurchased close to $1 billion in shares and combined with our dividend we've returned almost $1.6 billion to shareholders year-to-date.
We also had a very strong quarter for free cash flow generating $1.7 billion nearly 80% increase from last year's first quarter.
And as Jeff mentioned in light of our strong first quarter and our confidence in the remainder of the year we've raised our 2014 outlook for adjusted EPS excluding Time Inc.
We now expect growth to be in the low-teens.
I'll tough more on the details of our outlook throughout the presentation.
Now turning to the segment highlights.
I'll begin at Turner.
The revenues and adjusted operating income continued to grow despite rating and FX headwinds.
Subscription revenues grew 7% in the quarter which included more than 100 basis point drag from FX.
Domestic subscription revenue growth was solidly in the high single-digits a significant acceleration relative to the past couple of years.
And that acceleration was the result of rate increases related to Turner's domestic affiliate renewals.
Excluding the impact of FX international subscription revenue was also up in the high single-digits with largest gains coming from Latin America which remains our strongest region and where we continue to see healthy subscriber trends.
Looking forward we'll continue to benefits from Turner's domestic affiliate renewals for the remainder of the year.
And as Jeff noted we anticipate this will be a sustained lift in our subscription revenue growth rate.
Based on deals we already have in place we expect to grow our domestic subscription revenue at low double-digit rate on average through 2018.
Turning to advertising.
Revenues increased 5% in the quarter which was at the lower end of the range we originally expected and that included the impact of both soft ratings and moderate demand in the scatter market.
Of that growth about 300 basis points was due to the NCAA Tournament including the benefit from airing two NCAA Elite Eight games.
Domestic advertising increased similarly to the overall result and that included mid single-digit increase at domestic entertainment including kids and young adults and a low single-digit growth at our news networks.
Excluding a drag of approximately 400 basis points from FX international advertising would have been up high single-digits.
That reflected solid underlying growth in Latin America and international news.
Looking ahead to the second quarter scatter pricing is up high single to low double-digits over the upfront with volume still relatively modest and we expect ratings to remain a drag on our performance.
Also keep in mind that as a result of airing two Final Four games the NCAA should provide around a 300 basis point benefit in the quarter.
Taking all of that into account we anticipate total advertising to grow in the low single-digits in the second quarter.
Moving on adjusted operating income grew 3% in the quarter and that included a 9% increase in programming cost primarily due to the NCAA Tournament and continued investments in original programming across our networks.
Consistent with our focus on costs discipline we limited non-programming expense growth to just 2% in the quarter.
As we look to the remainder of 2014 we anticipate Turner's adjusted operating income growth to accelerate starting in the second quarter.
And despite ongoing investments in sports and original programming we expect solid margin expansion for the year.
So Turner is on pace for another good year in 2014.
Moving onto HBO where we saw strong growth in both revenues and adjusted operating income.
Subscription revenues were up 8% in the quarter with consolidation of HBO Asia and HBO Nordic contributing around 400 basis points to that growth.
Building on a strong 2013 our domestic subscriber trends remain positive and similar to the past few quarters the majority of recent subscriber additions have been non-revenue generating.
So while that's a good barometer of consumer demand for HBO subscriber growth did not have a material impact on our revenue.
Turning to content revenues which were up 13% in the quarter and that was primarily due to very strong home video sales of Season 3 of Game of Thrones which more than offset softness in library product.
Looking ahead we anticipate a significant bump in content revenues in the second quarter due to the Amazon deal announced last week.
As Jeffery noted HBO intends to invest the majority of proceeds from the transaction back into programming marketing and technology.
So we don't expect to commensurate increase in profits this year.
Adjusted operating income was up 11% in the quarter and margins expanded almost 100 basis points and that was despite the drag on margins from the international consolidations.
Programming expenses increased 8% with 600 basis points of that growth due to the consolidations.
Underneath that acquired theatrical expenses increased while programming write-offs decreased.
Absent to programming write-offs original programming expenses would have increased in the mid single-digits.
Across HBO's international properties first quarter results were equally impressive.
Total international revenue including unconsolidated JVs was up double-digits and subscriber trends remain strong especially in Latin America.
Like the rest of the company HBO remains focused on containing overheads in order to help fund investments in programming and technology.
And adjusting for the international consolidations SG&amp;A was down in the quarter and total non-programming expenses were up just 2%.
So HBO started the year with a lot of momentum from both an operating and a financial perspective and it's on track for another year of solid growth.
Turning now to Warner's which had a record first quarter growing revenue by 14% and adjusted operating income by more than 40%.
Strong theatrical performance was the biggest driver of growth in the quarter led by the box office success of The LEGO Movie and 300: Rise of an Empire as well as carryover revenue from the latest Hobbit installment and Gravity.
On the TV side revenue and associated profits grew due to higher initial telecast revenue related to increased production as well as continued growth from international syndication.
We also benefited from double-digit gains and SVOD revenue mainly due to international growth.
We continue to see healthy demand for our product from SVOD services and expect contributions from the SVOD distribution channel to increase this year.
Across theatrical and TV home entertainment revenue was down in the quarter largely due to the timing of the release of the latest Hobbit installment on home video which is in the second quarter this year versus the first quarter of last year.
Despite that digital trends remain positive with Warner electronic sell-through up over 20% in the first quarter.
Consumer spending across the broader home video market was also down in the first quarter due to a softer theatrical slate and the timing of Easter.
But digital growth was even stronger for the industry with electronic sell-through up 45%.
So on the whole we remain very encouraged by the ongoing transition to digital.
To help drive that transition Warner continues to champion industry-wide digital ownership initiative like UltraViolet which now has over 17 million accounts.
Looking ahead Warner has very difficult theatrical comparison for the rest of the year.
Even so given a strong start theatrically and positive trends in the TV business Warner is on pace for another record year in 2014.
Now onto Time Inc.
With the new management team is driving significant changes critical to its success as an independent public company.
Revenues increased 1% in the quarter and benefited from the acquisition of American Express Publishing Corporation.
Excluding this revenues would have decreased 5% with advertising down 7% and subscription flat.
Revenues also benefited from one additional issue each of people and time compared to last year.
Adjusted operating loss was $94 million and that was primarily a result of $115 million in restructuring charges in the quarter.
To offset challenging revenue trends the management team has been extremely focused on cost discipline and changing the way Time Inc.
operates with a goal of stabilizing the business and freeing up resources to invest in growth initiatives.
And excluding the acquisition and restructuring charges expenses fell 3% in the quarter.
Looking forward Time Inc.
remains on track with the outlook we provided in February.
Excluding restructuring and severance charges we expect modest declines in full year adjusted operating income in 2014.
And that's largely a function of continuing revenue pressure and incremental public company and stock compensation expenses that Time Inc.
will incur this year.
As Jeff noted we remain on track to complete the spin-off of Time Inc.
this quarter.
And as part of that process Time Inc.
recently issued senior notes and senior commitments for $1.4 billion in debt and a $500 million revolver.
That's consistent with our plan for an initial capital structure that includes approximately $1.3 billion in net debt.
We think this will allow sufficient flexibility to both invest in the business and provide direct returns to shareholders while also optimizing its cost of capital and delivering attractive levered equity returns to investors.
So Time Inc.
has made a lot of progress and is well on its way to executing against its goals for the year and successfully making the transition to a standalone public company.
Moving to free cash flow and including Time Inc.
which was very strong in the quarter the big year-over-year improvement is primarily due to the strong growth in adjusted operating income and a favorable swing in working capital.
The improvement in working capital reflects lower participations and production spend due to title mix at Warner Bros.
and the timing of sports programming payments at Turner.
Cash interest improved due to the receipt of interest income I noted earlier but given the additional debt we took on late last year we expect cash interest to increase for the remainder of the year.
The decline in cash taxes was primarily the result of the timing of audit settlements.
As with interest expense our cash taxes are likely to be higher for the full year due to the expiration of certain favorable tax legislation.
Putting that all together we do not expect free cash flow to grow at this level for the year.
Nonetheless we're off to a great start from a cash perspective and we fully expect to deliver another year of strong free cash flow in 2014.
Now onto net debt.
We ended the first quarter with $16.7 billion of net debt down versus the end of 2013 due to the very strong free cash flow generation I just noted and $1.3 billion in proceeds from the sale of our office space in Time Warner Center.
Out net leverage ratio was 2.2x as of March 31.
We returned about $1.3 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases during the quarter and that's consistent with our continued commitment to provide direct returns to shareholders.
As Jeff mentioned we intend to move to a target net leverage ratio of 2.75x by the end of 2014 which is faster than our initial plan.
Our decision to move more quickly to our target leverage is a reflection of both our confidence in the company's outlook and our view that our stock is very attractive at current level.
In light of that we'll be accelerating our share repurchase program in the coming quarters.
By moving more quickly to our target leverage we will also move back toward a more efficient cash position following significant inflows from the sale of our office space and the Time Inc.
spent.
At the same time we continue to invest aggressively in our businesses.
We've already discussed the investments we are making in great contents across our divisions.
We're also investing in strategic M&amp;A to improve our competitive position add new capabilities and accelerate growth especially outside the U.S.
While we don't need to do M&amp;A we're always open to opportunities that complement our existing assets and provide risk-adjusted returns that are more attractive than our alternative uses of capital.
And already this year we've committed over $700 million to acquire Eyeworks' international television production operations and to fund an additional round of investment in CME.
This combination of investing in our businesses opportunistic M&amp;A and significant direct return to shareholders is the same balanced approach to capital allocation we've been employing for a number of years now and we still believe it's the right approach today.
Now onto the final slide which shows our outlook for 2014.
We had a great first quarter and feel really good about how we are positioned for the rest of this year.
That's given us the confidence to raise our full year 2014 outlook to low-teens adjusted EPS growth.
And keep in mind that despite our expectation of a negative swing in inter-company eliminations and a higher effective tax rate between the two we still anticipate a negative year-over-year impact of approximately $0.15 to $0.20 to adjusted EPS for the year.
Looking more closely at the second quarter we have somewhat more challenging comparison against what was a very strong quarter a year ago.
Even so we anticipate solid growth in both adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS.
We're doing all this while investing aggressively for future growth.
And as Jeff mentioned we think we can continue to grow adjusted EPS at attractive levels for the foreseeable future.
With that I'll turn it back to Mike to start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Howard.
Joe can you please open up the lines for Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) And it looks like our first question here comes from Mr.
Doug Mitchelson from Deutsche Bank.
This is actually Meghan Durkin standing in for Doug.
So you talked for a couple of times about the softness in the scatter market.
I am curious to hear how the tone is in the sports advertising market and how that compares to the entertainment ad market? And then I have a follow-up.
Well scatter has been relatively steady but within the sports side it tends to be a little bit softer we have seen that.
And I think what's happened is we are seeing some pull from World Cup coming out of the marketplace just like we saw in the first quarter with the Olympics.
So it's a little bit softer than we had anticipated.
The entertainment is just going along similar to how it's been kind of a little soft? Well I would say that if I just stated generally speaking that we're not seeing quite as much volume.
On the entertainment side we're seeing more of a drag from the ratings side more so than just the volumes it's more on -- there's a drag from the ratings.
And then on a completely different topic.
I was interested to hear how Jeff would respond to Jeff Katzenberg's recent comments when he was quoted as saying that movies are not a growth business but television is.
Well maybe it's for him.
He doesn't make very many movies.
We've been doing fine in movies.
And let's just put some context on.
So 2013 for Warner Bros was a record year domestically.
We had a very strong slate.
We were number one in the box office.
I think 2014 was off to a strong start it's up about 7% in the first quarter.
And we also see continued growth overseas which has become a bigger driver of our business.
International demand on theatrical side is particularly strong for the kinds of the best films that we produce.
And we already talked in our -- what we've said already about the films that we had including LEGO and 300 this first quarter but if you go to the rest of the year we do have some tough comparisons given how strong we were last year.
But we had a great year last year.
For the rest of '14 the slate looks good.
We have Godzilla coming Edge of Tomorrow and the final installment of The Hobbit.
So we think we're going to have a record year in 2014.
We do think we can grow the business over time and we've been doing it.
So we don't agree with that view.
And I think it maybe -- the business at their end is quite different.
Our next question will come from Mr.
Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Jeff the extension of your affiliate revenue growth trajectory the double-digit CAGR into 2018.
Trying to get a sense for sort of how much is fully baked already? You have talked about the CAGR through '16 and you had seven of the top 10 deals done.
Can you give us some context on the '18 outlook why did you decide to reveal that to us today and sort of what's the new distribution landscape look like in your decision to go there? And obviously that lifts the growth of the company and the earnings power of the company over multiple years.
Just want to get a little more color on that.
And on HBO the subscriber trends are great.
What has to happen to translate the subscriber growth to better revenue growth in the U.S.? Let's do the Turner first.
The reason we just wanted to go farther out we've had the deals that we've been mentioning in place for a while.
We had given guidance out three years we thought that was enough in terms of how our affiliate sales were going.
We kept getting questions about our growth after '16 since we have pretty good visibility in it we thought we ought to say since we have deals that go beyond '16 we should provide a little more clarity.
The rate increases we have we're seeing not just through '16 but also through '18 because the outlook for the three years through '16 hasn't changed.
It's still the attractive ramp that we told you about before but it just continues for a couple of more years.
We thought we ought to say that.
So that's the Turner stock.
In terms of HBO there's really strong programming or strong critics and ratings performance there is strong take-up of GO there is strong take up of international subscriber growth and there is a pretty robust steady trend in domestic which I think is where your question is focused.
Basically there is two ways to improve the mix in terms of how we view the deals to provide incentives for affiliate performance.
First we can focus more resources working with our underperforming affiliates.
And that's a combination of incentives and other actions to get out of those markets the natural HBO subscriber penetration that HBO really earns in terms of its program.
And if we're not going to get it through the affiliates that are underperforming we are going to find ways to make that happen.
Second we look to sharing the upside of our best performing affiliate and those are the ones who have been really setting a clear benchmark for where HBO can go.
And so when we take those deal structures and fit into the more HBO participation in the upside that takes a little bit of time as the renewals come in.
And then finally if you add on top of that some of the innovations that certain affiliates have come up with which are lower-priced packages that you can put HBO in some broadband-only efforts by facility-based distributors.
These are all pretty promising.
And I'm not going to give more specifics but what we have which is the fundamental underlying good fact is that the viewer's love the HBO program.
The rights and ability of HBO GO to provide it in a very great exciting way is increasing and the upside that we get from --so that's producing an ability on our part to invest a lot more in programming.
We're going to use most of the proceeds from the Amazon transaction to increase our programming going forward.
So it's adding up to a very nice platform for future growth for acceleration of HBO revenue and earnings growth.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Michael Nathanson from MoffettNathanson.
I have two one is for Howard and one is for Jeff.
Howard first on SVOD.
You guys have been pretty transparent about SVOD revenues over the past couple of years.
I know you won't call it Amazon particularly but can you give us a sense in '14 how big will SVOD get for the company when you're looking at the entire landscape of SVOD deals? Would you be getting over $500 million or so for '14? And then for Jeff I wondered what the move to Amazon represents in terms of what you see for HBO GO in terms of usage trends? Are you seeing pretty much the usage trend is focused on newer product and therefore the catalog has been pretty much tapped out for HBO GO? And you think there's a chance that find people who have never seen it before? So what do you have the research on usage by catalog versus new? Michael first on SVOD.
So the starting point we generated about $375 million last year and that was up slightly from 2012 and we think that's near the top of our competitive set.
By the way it doesn't include the revenue that The CW network directly receives from SVOD which is pretty significant.
So we're going to be able to grow that again in 2014.
And in terms of where the growth is coming from a lot of that is coming from international territories But again to keep the overall in the perspective it is a small portion of our overall revenue.
It's about 10% of our TV licensing revenue last year and it's only about 3% of film and TV revenue.
More importantly it's probably the fact that it's clear that there is consumer demand for this content in an on-demand environment and that's particularly true for past seasons of serialized shows.
So I'm pretty confident that we're going to be able to continue to monetize that content moving forward.
So you were asking about basically the usage in on-demand of HBO viewers between different categories of programming; older newer and movie series et cetera? Is that what you asked? Right.
Well so let me try to give me that.
That gives me a lot of good news and which good news outweighs this other good news so you have all read in the press that the fairly impressive numbers for HBO VOD usage on current episodes of Game of Thrones or True Detective and so on.
I mean there's a tremendous usage going on of all current and new series.
There is also which has not gotten enough attention a fairly strong usage both in linear programming and in some on-demand usage of the movie slate let's not forget the movie slate at HBO it's got by far the strongest line-up of current movie releases.
What we're seeing though when you go and you look at the interest that viewers have all around the world included in your question a lot of people didn't see some of the classic hits at HBO.
And so when you make them available whether it's the Amazon Prime deal where you can see tremendous shows like Sopranos but most Amazon Prime subs don't have HBO so it's a great opportunity to familiarize them with HBO programming get them interested as prospects for our HBO sub the affiliates that sell HBO.
So it's a tremendous marketing thing for HBO subscribers over time in addition to being a very fertile place for people to buy HBO programming so most of this you do relativity most of that huge viewing goes to current series.
But I think we're going to see some fairly strong viewing and sampling of the HBO classics and the library shows that are coming on Amazon.
Michael just to follow-up on the financials of the Amazon deal.
We're not going to disclose the specifics but it is a multi-year deal and we're going to be recognizing revenue reasonably evenly over all years of the contract.
So in 2014 we're going to see a pretty -- we're going to recognize pretty much all the revenue related to the transaction in the second quarter.
So when you see a pretty sizeable bump there's going to be a benefit to HBO season in the second quarter and you're going to see similar lumpy recognition in future years.
But in terms of the overall profits we intend to invest most of those proceeds back into the business including spending on additional programming marketing and technology spend.
So the impact on 2014 is not significant.
So the move up which we're telling you about the strong year we are having in '14 and the increase in guidance is mostly core trends at Time Warner.
It's not in the large part coming out of the Amazon that's a little part of it but we're going to invest most of that part.
Our next question comes from Mr.
David Bank from RBC Capital Markets.
Kind of a follow-up on something.
I think given your commentary around ratings it definitely sounds like the softness x the NCAAs over the past couple of quarters have clearly been driven by content cyclicality as opposed to secular issues.
But I wanted to try and drill down a little further because I think this has been something of a hot topic recently for investors especially around the upfront.
So I was wondering if you take those sort of core low single-digit growth numbers x the impact of the NCAAs shifting I mean you have a really enormous portfolio and there are different dayparts different demo targets really hard I think for us to track ratings on the outside in a specific way.
Can you give us kind of an aggregate revenue weighted basis GRP decline so that we could -- how much of this is about pricing versus by impressions right? I don't mean like scatter pricing over the upfront but actual kind of blended pricing increases.
And then I guess the second part of that is Jeff specifically could you kind of comment on your thoughts right now about the secular strength of national cable advertising dollars versus some of the digital guys fighting for wallet share.
I sympathize with that question.
You're trying to pull a pattern out.
Thank you for your sympathy.
Yes sometimes when we're talking amongst ourselves we say well let me try to collect your thoughts sort of or my thoughts.
So I would simplify so basically it's about rate which Howard try to get at and we have stronger and weaker ratings performance.
We think that if you really get into under the performance that we're seeing which we think it's essentially ratings a little bit of market but it's mostly ratings.
And on that issue and it's like anything follow the money the big money is TBS TNT.
TNT has been softer than it should have been as we've talked about.
Let's get into that from an investment point of view.
The way we look at it we've got the two strongest big reach networks in cable TBS TNT and a lot of other networks that are very strong.
None of them are flank or weak networks and we need to refresh the original programming and we've got a budget that we talked to you about that's on our trend line that gives us plenty of money to move towards younger-skewing programming edgier programming that will fit both brands.
And to the question of how should we view the likelihood of our succeeding let's remind ourselves that Warner Bros.
is Hollywood's leading TV studio; HBO's been more successful with its original program than any other network; Turners had some great success in broad reach somewhat to old-skewing originals which we're now going to focus very intently on doing younger ones.
There's nothing else to say about Time Warner across those divisions.
We know how to create successful TV series.
And since Turner has had its share of hits we're now moving the target towards younger male and female-skewing stuff.
And we have new management that's going to actively pursue this we think that we'll be able to do this and come up with something -- look we got to do it and not be complacent which I'm not saying I tend to be complacent about it but we're very excited about it and we think that we have all the pieces to have very strong programming strength there over time.
It's going to take a little while but let's keep a couple of rating things in perspective and not over focused on current softness at Turner which is that the Turner domestic advertising is less than 15% of total company revenue.
Now as it turns around that will be a nice lift for us.
But just keep that in mind.
TBS is still number one in 18 to 49 and 18 to 34 in primetime in the first quarter.
Adult Swim remains number one in 18 to 34 and 18 to 49 in total there.
Now TNT which had the softest was the top five network in '13 and now it's slipped off a little.
And CNN is showing great momentum right now.
But if you go back to basically TBS and TNT the answer to your question is the ratings are softer than they are going to be and unless we just can't figure out how to do it which would be I guess the only downside this is all going to get a lot better and turn into a fairly strong mid-term and out earnings story at Turner.
So David let me just give you a little bit more context about the current trends and it is a combination of factors so looking at the second quarter for example scatter pricing for Entertainment Networks is up it's still up high-single to low double-digits over the upfront.
But again as I mentioned we're just not seeing much volume overall.
And also just generally speaking to it but also more for sports so as I mentioned we saw demand siphoned off in the first quarter and in the second quarter we are seeing it with World Cup and again the ratings tend to be a little bit of a drag.
Further than that on the international side we're also seeing a slight drag from FX and the World Cup.
But going in the other direction we do expect about 300 basis points benefit from NCAA in the second quarter.
So as I said in my prepared remarks that all translates into low single-digit growth in advertising.
But from where we sit today that would probably be even on the lower-end of low single-digits.
So that gives you a little more color.
For that quarter.
For the quarter right.
Yeah.
Our next question here comes from Mr.
Anthony DiClemente from Nomura.
I have two questions for either Howard or Jeff.
You guys mentioned that the Amazon revenue would be recognized evenly over the horizon of the contract.
You also said most of this year's revenue will be reinvested in programming and other expenses.
So my question is should we think about this year as a one-time step-up in investment in HBO or do you think that the incremental margin on that kind of evenly paced Amazon revenue will expand in 2015? And then my second question would be in terms of the new guidance or the extension of the double-digit domestic affiliate fee growth how should we think about how international plays into it over the course of time over that extended five-year period of time? Do you think that international cable will be accretive to that growth rate on the domestic side or not? Let me do the first one and then may ask you about the second.
On the HBO Amazon what percent of the revenue lift do we decide to take into earnings in a given year? So we said we're going to invest most of it in programming and technical capacity for GO that's because it's expanding so well.
Probably our margin on it would go up over the next few years but we may decide to invest it as we go in more programming that we find pretty attractive and that programming not just supporting the service subscriber revenue and profit domestically and overseas those things when we have them and we like them like with the Game of Thrones we haven't even sold it yet.
They turn into tremendous sources of content revenue and profit with very large contribution once you get past hit status so depending on what we've got we'll decide later whether we take more of it into earnings or whether we just use it to expand the future earnings basically.
What was the other question? Can you repeat your second? Could you do it again? We didn't understand.
The other question is as we model Turner going forward you've got domestic and international and you guys are providing guidance on the domestic side and we're just trying to figure out what that equates to on a global basis.
So over the next five years do you expect the international piece to be accretive or dilutive to your double-digit affiliate fee guidance on the domestic side? Is that clear? You are trying to find out if the international is double-digit on its own base is that what you're saying? Yes that'd be great to know.
We're trying to figure out if we have thought of it that way.
The international trends are really strong.
Does anybody have the exact percentage growth of international? Ends up high single-digits in the first quarter.
It's probably better.
Well we think it's going to be that I mean there has been a drag on FX particularly this year but it is growing from an organic standpoint.
Maybe another way to ask the question would be you have these deals in place on the domestic side that are long-term and multi-year.
Do you have that kind of visibility internationally that would give you the conviction to put forth kind of a similar type of affiliate guidance for international or not? International's is not one country it's many.
So there's no simple answer because each territory is different.
The sub-growth is different.
In Latin America which is our biggest region the biggest driver is not the price increase in the affiliates deal many of which we have going on and there is some decent price increases most of it is volume increases that are pretty significant.
And you can just look at the numbers we have been posting and see extremely strong secular sub-growth all across Latin America our biggest region.
You then go into our other regions Eastern Europe the Rim of Asia we're launching new networks such as HBO in the Netherlands and the Nordic regions and India.
CNN in Indonesia truTV in Brazil TNT in Chile and some of the other expansion of our South America sourced channels.
So generally we don't see that much of -- more of the increase overseas is in sub-growth than in pricing because it is similar to the stage of development that the international markets are in.
What's good about that is that the international trends are set.
And if you don't have FX going against you you would probably be in a pretty steady double-digit neighborhood.
And it's hard to say what the FX trends are going to be.
Our next question here comes from Vasily Karasyov from Sterne Agee.
Agee</strong> Jeff I wanted to follow-up on your comments on the Turner and upcoming turnaround hopefully in ratings and programming.
You said that some of the originals ended up skewing-older than -- was that by design or did it just end up doing that? And I wonder if you could tell us where you think -- I am sure you have very sophisticated research where the viewers' went and where assuming the cable total viewership is stable whom should you take share from with the new programming at Turner? Yes.
So I think the first part of your question is the reason some of our Turner original particularly on TNT skewed older is it because we aimed for that and hit the target.
And the answer is yes.
So that actually gives us a fair amount of confidence that when we move the sighting of what we're aiming at we'll hit that target too.
The reason we were doing the former aim at big general entertainment audiences is that is come-off the very successful Turner strategy of being the network -- the broadcast network replacement.
That was working great for the advertisers and audiences.
There were shows like The Closer Rizzoli &amp; Isles which have the biggest audiences in cable right next to a broadcast series But what's happened I think as we all know is that the younger viewership has become more important and the advertisement interest in more younger skewing a little edgier programming than what they wanted to buy a couple of years ago has become pretty pronounced.
Some of that is probably because there have been some very good series that showed up on some basic networks that were like that Breaking Bad is a good example.
And some of it is because everyone has got a little change in their view advertising included the viewers too that came out of subscription via these shows that are serialized and edgier.
And so basically the interest of the audience and the growth of the younger audience has meant back the better target and that's where we'll be.
Agee</strong> And would that also translate into higher CPM hopefully? Yes.
More ratings higher CPMs more money.
Our last question here will come from Mr.
Michael Morris from Guggenheim.
Two questions one for Jeff.
Disney and DISH recently reached a deal that allows them to provide a personal subscription service via broadband and it requires more participation.
So my question is have you considered that? Are you discussing the topic with DISH and what would it take for you to get involved or participate in a service like that? And then Howard just on return of capital clearly great cash flow and return of capital is primarily focused on the share repurchases.
Can you talk a little bit about the thought process of continuing with repurchases versus dividends just given how strong and stable and growing your affiliate streams are could support higher dividend growth story? Let me start on the DISH question.
So DISH Sony Verizon are all expressing interest in virtual MVPDs.
There is a lot of discussion about this.
Of course we're talking with all of them as we have been and are certainly open to opportunities to grow our business.
We're not philosophically opposed to that kind of structure but we have to believe it will be additive and sustainable.
And so there are a fair number of questions in terms of the ad model the quality of service over whichever broadband method they are thinking about and how this would impact investment in the plan that we all need to develop high quality TV.
What you asked about I think specifically which is the DISH-Disney arrangement could be interesting for us.
And it's not so different than the Comcast innovation selling HBO on a light weight TV package.
So yes we're talking to DISH about whether there is some applicability of that for us.
It could allow them and other distributors to target a group of consumers but otherwise might not subscribe to multichannel TV.
And to the extent that that is a good entree into the ecosystem for younger consumers but then either because it serves them well and does not cannibalize what they would otherwise do as a video subscriber or leaves them to become bigger package video subscribers that's good for everybody.
So we are exploring that.
Michael on dividend versus buyback obviously we think both should play a role in our effort to try to get returns.
But it's important to note that we have the highest payout and the highest dividend yield of our peer group.
We announced the 10% increase in our dividend back in February at the same time as we mentioned early we think the stock is attractive so we also find repurchasing shares to be a good vehicle for additional returns to shareholders.
And this is all really consistent with what we've done in the past few years.
And the clock is really not changing.
So there is no reason to expect that we're going to deviate from that formula.
Thanks everybody for joining us today.
As always we're here for any additional questions.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Time Warner Inc.
Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
My name is Joe and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is also being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Time Warner's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
This morning we issued 2 press releases.
One detailing our results for the second quarter and the other reaffirming our 2014 full year business outlook.
Before we begin there are 2 items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our website.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Thank you.
And I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Jeff? Thanks Mike and thanks for listening in this morning.
We had another great quarter.
Revenues grew 3%.
Adjusted operating income increased 17% and adjusted earnings per share was up 29%.
We also generated $2 billion in free cash flow in the first half of the year.
That's up 16% from a year earlier.
The other highlight in the quarter was the completion of the spinoff of Time Inc.
into an independent publicly-traded company on June 6.
This really marked the beginning of a new and a very promising era for Time Warner.
As you know we started a process several years ago that focused the company on video content emphasizing the very best storytelling.
We've strived to make that content available to consumers all over the world and across every technology platform and device.
We've also maintained an intense focus on our operational and capital efficiency with an unwavering commitment to maximize value for Time Warner shareholders.
Our strong results both this quarter and the last several years are evidence that our strategy is working.
By focusing on the right set of leading brands and assets on operational excellence and on disciplined capital allocation we've been able to achieve the highest total shareholder returns of any company in our peer group over the last 6 years.
And we think the future of the company is even brighter.
We've only just begun to reap the benefits of being a nimbler and more focused video content company with iconic assets including the world's leading premium television brand the world's strongest ad-supported cable network group and the world's largest film and television studio.
The combination of those assets and a management team that I think is the strongest in the industry positions us for continued attractive growth in the years to come.
Today's call is about our operating results and performance.
We're not going to comment on the proposal from 21st Century Fox or its withdraw except to say that the board and our senior management team appreciate very much the continued support of our shareholders.
We're committed to continued delivering substantial and sustainable returns into the future and we saw ample evidence of what we can accomplish during the second quarter.
And that's just the beginning.
So let me start with HBO which in a world with so much great content and so many ways to access that content continues to define the word premium.
HBO remains at the top of its game.
Recently receiving 99 Primetime Emmy nominations which is the most of any network for the 14th year in a row.
It's also more than double the nominations of its closest competitor for the second straight year.
Nominations included Outstanding Comedy Series for Veep and Silicon Valley as well as Outstanding Drama Series for True Detective and Game of Thrones.
Both Silicon Valley and True Detective are freshman hits for HBO.
That underscores HBO's unrivaled ability to incubate and provide a platform for groundbreaking storytelling.
Now speaking of groundbreaking the fourth season of Game of Thrones which concluded in June averaged 19 million cumulative viewers making it the most watched season of an original series in HBO's history surpassing even The Sopranos.
What are you going to do? With all this HBO is not easing up on the gas.
It introduced 2 more shows this quarter that are off to solid starts.
John Oliver's Last Week Tonight; and our new drama The Leftovers from showrunner and writer Damon Lindelof.
The Leftovers is the first show Warner Bros.
has produced for HBO and Leftovers is averaging 8 million viewers per episode to date.
And 2 days from today The Knick from executive producer Steven Soderbergh will premiere on Cinemax which has been steadily building a slate of original hits.
We think The Knick could be a signature show for the network and we've already renewed it for a second season.
I mentioned using technology to enhance the user experience.
And HBO GO continues to set the standard for how audiences enjoy the content they love across devices and platforms.
HBO GO active users grew 35% year-over-year in June and is now available in 24 territories around the world.
And as we've told you before we're making investments in the next-generation HBO GO that will be even more powerful and will put us in a strong position to take advantage of consumer demand for multiplatform viewing options here and around the world.
HBO's investments in programming and technology continue to translate into solid subscriber growth.
In the first half we added more than twice as many domestic subs as we did in the same period a year ago and we're confident that that will translate into even stronger subscription revenue growth over time.
Of course HBO's success has not been limited to its domestic business.
HBO's international subscriber base including unconsolidated joint ventures grew almost 15% in the past 12 months.
And we think there is substantial additional opportunities to grow internationally in the years to come.
Now let's look at Turner which has the strongest portfolio of ad-supported cable networks in the industry.
That includes 2 of the top 5 networks in the U.S.
and the highest percentage of its U.S.
networks in the top 30 of any operator.
And Turner's 4 most important networks TNT TBS CNN and Cartoon Network accounts for 85% of its domestic affiliate fees.
That concentration is the result of a deliberate strategy of focusing our investment on a small group of top-tier networks to ensure that they are must haves for both consumers and distributors.
In a world where consumers are becoming more discriminating in what they watch and where distributors are looking to create smaller bundles of networks we think that's the right strategy and it puts us in a great position to increase share over time.
We saw that play out in this year's [indiscernible] where we once again garnered price increases at the very top of the industry.
To stay on top Turner's investing even more in content building on a strong platform that's already home to more top-rated original programs than any of its peers and a portfolio of top-tier sports that includes the NBA Major League Baseball and March Madness.
Those investments are paying dividends.
During the quarter TNT ranked as ad-supported cable's #1 prime time network among total viewers and adults 18 to 34 adults 18 to 49 and adults 25 to 54.
We've told you about TNT's efforts to refresh and take more creative risks with its programming and we're already seeing positive results.
The Last Ship and Murder in the First which both launched during the quarter are the 2 most watched new series on ad-supported cable this year so far.
We expect that momentum to continue with the August rollout of Legends which stars Sean Bean and comes from Howard Gordon.
He's the creative force behind 24 and Homeland.
TBS was close on TNT's heels finishing the quarter as the #3 ad-supported network in primetime among adults 18 to 49 and adults 25 to 54 with The Big Bang Theory on TBS remaining the #1 comedy on ad-supported cable among total viewers for the 10th consecutive quarter.
And we're excited about the launch of all new episodes of American Dad on TBS this fall.
We also continue to see strength at Adult Swim which was again ad-supported cable's #1 network in total day among adults 18 to 34 during the quarter and it won the day in adults 18 to 24 and 18 to 49 as well.
At CNN we're making significant progress on our original programming strategy with current seasons of Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown; and Morgan Spurlock: Inside Man both registering solid double-digit gains over the prior season.
The Sixties was tripling CNN's time period average from a year ago and The Hunt with John Walsh another new show won its time period among cable news networks.
Outside the U.S.
Turner is also a leader particularly in Latin America.
The strength of Turner's international position was evident this quarter as international revenue was up around 10% and adjusted operating income grew 25% on a constant currency basis with growth across all of our major regions.
Our kids business remains a cornerstone of our international operations.
In fact Cartoon Network is the #1 kids network in many areas outside the U.S.
While already a very good business for us we've got plans to significantly increase the size of our kids business as we focus on global franchise management and growing consumer products revenue.
Turner is also investing to expand its lead in multiplatform with properties like Bleacher Report which was the #2 stand-alone sports site in the second quarter and CNN Digital which is significantly ahead of its peers leading all news outlets with over 30 million monthly mobile uniques.
CNN recently extended its multiplatform capabilities with a national rollout of its next-generation TV Everywhere product which is now available to subscribers in over 85 million households domestically.
So go check it out.
Now I'd like to turn to Warner Bros.
which is on track for another great year underscoring its continued industry leadership.
In what is widely considered a volatile and mature business Warner has grown its adjusted operating income at a double-digit CAGR over the past 5 years by leveraging its industry-leading distribution capabilities its unique IP and its very strong relationships in the creative community to produce content with global appeal.
The strength and diversity of its revenue streams was evident again this quarter.
On the theatrical side of the business we anticipated a softer summer compared to last year which remember included Man of Steel The Hangover Part III and The Great Gatsby.
But despite those comparisons we're #2 in the domestic box office year-to-date benefiting from the strong performances of The LEGO Movie and Godzilla.
And along with the release of with the second Hobbit installment The LEGO Movie also helped us to maintain our #1 position in home video in the quarter.
It's just the latest example of Warner's unequaled ability to create franchises with 2 additional LEGO titles already in development.
That adds to an already strong pipeline of franchises built around DC Entertainment and the new series of films from J.K.
Rowling based in the world of Harry Potter.
Our franchise pipeline gives us great confidence Warner Bros.
will continue to lead the film industry building on a track record that includes the #1 position at the domestic box office 7 out of the last 10 years and the #1 spot in home video for 13 straight years.
But that's not all.
Warner Bros.
Television group is also leading the industry.
Heading into the 2014 to '15 TV season Warner's is again the #1 producer of shows for broadcast.
That's a position we've held for 11 of the past 12 seasons.
Starting this fall Warner will have 31 shows on broadcast networks including at least 2 primetime series on each network and 60 shows overall across broadcast and cable.
Now what's also really notable and unprecedented is that 5 of those shows are based on IP from DC Entertainment including the highly anticipated Gotham on Fox The Flash on the CW and Constantine on NBC.
That's early evidence of Warner's ambitious plans to further mine the DC catalog across our television film video game and consumer products businesses.
Warner's is also leveraging its lead skill position in broadcast television by significantly expanding production for cable networks and SVOD services growing its non-scripted output and widening its international local production footprint.
During the quarter for example we completed the acquisition of Eyeworks' international television production operations and we've now built out a global network of wholly-owned international production companies.
A key part of our strategy for Warner's to expand in cable TV production is working more closely with both Turner and HBO.
That collaboration is one of the many benefits of having a smaller more focused company with commonalities across all the businesses and a management team that's worked together for years.
And we continue to augment our strong operating performance with disciplined capital allocation.
So far this year we've repurchased $3.5 billion of our stock and including dividends we've returned over $4 billion to shareholders.
Even at recent highs we believe share repurchases were a very attractive use of capital.
And today we announced that the board has authorized an additional $5 billion in share repurchases.
That decision is a strong indication of the confidence we have in our growth prospects.
Over the next several years we have great opportunities across our businesses.
At Turner we'll benefit from our domestic affiliate renewal cycle and strong international growth while investing to reinvigorate our key brands and take advantage of under-monetized opportunities like the global kids business.
At HBO we'll capitalize on the growing demand for our industry-leading content both here and around the world while investing in technology to provide the very best next-generation experience to our consumers.
At Warner Bros.
we'll roll out an even stronger slate of franchise films with global appeal and leverage our leading position in broadcast TV to drive growth in cable SVOD unscripted and international sales.
And across the company we'll remain laser-focused on operating and allocating capital as efficiently as possible to maximize shareholder returns.
We know that many of you are interested in hearing more about our long-term growth plans and we look forward to sharing additional details about those plans at an investor event this fall.
With that let me turn it over to Howard.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
As a reminder we completed the Time Inc.
spin at the beginning of June and it's now continued in discontinued operations.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide of our presentation which is now available on our website.
We're thrilled with our financial performance in the first half of the year.
We delivered strong growth in the first quarter and even better results this one.
So through the first half our adjusted operating income is up 14% and adjusted EPS is up 27% and we think that growth is both indicative of the strength of our industry-leading businesses and the validation of the strategy we've been executing the last several years.
In the second quarter we posted double-digit increases and adjusted operating income at all 3 divisions and total AOI increased 17% boosted by an acceleration in subscription revenue at both HBO and Turner.
Margins expanded nearly 300 basis points in the quarter and that's the 11th time in the last 12 quarters that margins have increased year-over-year.
Total operating expenses were down 1% in the quarter and that's despite higher content investments that Turner and HBO and increased expenses associated with the consolidation of HBO Asia and HBO Nordic.
SG&amp;A was down 3% in the quarter.
This is a great example of how our disciplined approach to expense management allows us to balance aggressive content investments with continued margin expansion and profit growth.
We continue to leverage growth and adjusted operating income into even faster growth in adjusted EPS which increased 29%.
And that was mostly due to our ongoing share repurchase program and improved results at our equity investments including CME.
During the quarter we repurchased almost $2 billion in shares a significant acceleration from the first quarter and paid over $280 million in dividends.
So year-to-date we've returned over $4 billion to shareholders including over $3.5 billion in share repurchases and well over $500 million in dividends.
And as evidenced by the authorization of an additional $5 billion in share repurchases we remain committed to delivering significant direct returns to shareholders.
This morning we also reaffirmed our 2014 guidance for low teens growth and adjusted EPS.
So with a very strong first half we remain on track for our sixth consecutive year of double-digit growth and adjusted EPS.
Now turning to the segment highlights.
I'll begin at Turner which had record second quarter revenues and adjusted operating income.
Subscription revenues were up 8% in the quarter despite a 70-basis point drag from FX.
Domestic Subscription revenues once again grew high single-digits as Turner continue to benefit from the rate increases associated with its domestic affiliate renewals.
International Subscription revenues increased double-digits with the largest gains coming from Latin America.
Looking forward we'll continue to benefit from Turner's domestic affiliate renewals for the remainder of the year and we expect domestic sub revenue growth to remain in the high single-digit range.
Longer term we remain confident in our ability to grow domestic sub revenue double-digits annually on average through 2018.
Moving on.
Advertising revenues increased 1% in the quarter in line with the range we expected coming into the quarter and that included the benefit of approximately 300 basis points from the airing of 2 final 4 games.
While our new original programs at TNT are off to a good start ratings at our domestic networks remain a headwind.
In addition scatter demand remained moderate particularly for sports.
And as we've discussed with you previously we think that was at least partially due to the impact of the World Cup.
Domestic advertising growth was up slightly in the quarter with very modest growth at both our domestic entertainment networks including kids and young adults and news networks.
Excluding the drag of approximately 400 basis points from FX international advertising would have been up in the high single-digits led by solid underlying growth in Latin America.
Looking ahead to the third quarter scatter pricing is healthy pacing up high single-digits over the upfront however volume remains relatively modest and we expect ratings to remain a near-term drag on our performance.
Taking those factors into account we anticipate total advertising to be flat to down low single-digits in the third quarter.
Adjusted operating income grew a really strong 15% in the quarter and margins increased over 300 basis points.
That reflects both revenue growth and our continued focus on limiting non-programming expenses which were down in the quarter.
Programming expenses increased 5% due to higher sports cost primarily associated with the NCAA Tournament.
And that was balanced by lower original programming cost at our domestic entertainment networks due to the timing of series premieres.
Looking ahead we expect cost related to the new Major League Baseball deal and continued aggressive investments in original programming to result in somewhat higher programming cost growth in the second half of the year.
So we expect full year programming cost growth to be in the high single-digits.
To free up resources to invest even more in programming as well as technology and international expansion earlier this year Turner kicked off a global initiative called Turner 2020.
Turner 2020 is designed to improve efficiency and maximize performance across the organization and will likely result in restructuring charges in the second half of this year.
This is all consistent with our company-wide strategy to limit non-programming expense growth in order to fund investments and drive continued margin expansion.
Turner will also be evaluating whether to dispose of certain licensed programming in connection with these restructuring activities.
To the extent it decides to we could also incur programming impairments.
We'll provide more details on both those fronts in the coming months.
Excluding those potential impacts we're on track for another year of margin expansion and solid growth at Turner.
And looking beyond 2014 we expect revenue and adjusted operating income growth to accelerate over the next several years as we continue to benefit from attractive domestic affiliate rate increases strong international growth efficiency initiatives and upside from under monetized opportunities like our global kids business Adult Swim and truTV.
Turning now to HBO where we had another very strong quarter with revenues up 17% and adjusted operating income up 23%.
Subscription revenues increased 10% in the quarter with the consolidation of HBO Asia and HBO Nordic contributing around 500 basis points to that growth.
Domestically our subscriber trends remain healthy and we're starting to see some improvement in the subscriber mix which contributed to a modest acceleration in our domestic Subscription revenue growth.
Content revenues grew over 50% in the quarter.
That increase was due to revenue from our licensing deal with Amazon balanced by lower domestic syndication.
Adjusted operating income was up 23% in the second quarter with margins expanding nearly 200 basis points and that obviously benefited from the Amazon deal.
Also keep in mind that prior year's quarter benefited from an adjustment to a receivable allowance.
Absent that adjusted operating income would've been up over 30%.
Programming expenses increased 11% with 600 basis points of that growth coming from the international consolidations.
Excluding the consolidations programming expenses increased 5% with double-digit growth and original programming tempered by lower acquired theatrical expenses due to the timing of film availabilities.
In addition marketing spend increased to support our original programming and due to the consolidations.
Across HBO's international properties we've posted another quarter of solid growth.
Total international revenue including unconsolidated JVs was up double-digits.
And that was driven by continued subscriber growth with international subs up around 15% year-over-year.
Looking ahead we expect total expense growth excluding the consolidations to accelerate somewhat in the back half of the year.
This is due in part to the timing of programming the reinvestment of the Amazon proceeds and higher distribution expenses.
As we've previously discussed we intend to invest the majority of the Amazon proceeds back into the business in programming marketing and technology.
As a result we expect adjusted operating income to be relatively flat year-over-year in the second half of the year.
Despite that with our strong first half results and healthy underlying trends HBO remains on track for solid growth in 2014.
And given the strength of its brand and content and the significant global opportunities we see in front of it we think that HBO is poised to accelerate its growth over the next several years.
Moving onto Warner Bros.
which reached its highest second quarter profits in a decade.
Despite tough theatrical comparisons Warner's had another very strong quarter underscoring its diverse earn extremes [ph].
Adjusted operating income grew 28% and margins expanded around 200 basis points.
That included strong growth in TV and home entertainment combined with lower film and distribution costs.
Adjusted operating income growth this quarter also benefited from the reversal of bad debt reserves and lower restructuring charges.
On the TV side revenues grew mid single-digits.
That was related to higher license fees from television production and international syndication.
And as Jeff described earlier Warner's completed another very successful upfront season so the outlook for our TV business continues to be very strong.
Across theatrical and TV home entertainment was up 14% largely due to the timing of the release of the second Hobbit film and the strong performance of The LEGO Movie.
Digital trends also remained positive with electronic sell-through up close to 70% in the quarter.
Consumer spending across the broader home video market was down modestly in the second quarter due to the declines in rentals and sales of catalog product.
However total sell-through was up in the quarter led by 32% growth in electronic sell-through.
So we remain encouraged with the continued digital transition in home entertainment.
Looking ahead to the second half of the year theatrical comparisons remain challenging but we expect continued momentum in TV.
We're really well positioned for the new TV season and expect continued growth in TV license fees.
We also expect demand for our content outside the U.S.
to remain healthy.
So given the strong start to the year and positive outlook in the TV business Warner's remains on pace for another great year in 2014.
And looking beyond 2014 we remain confident in our ability to grow both our TV and theatrical businesses at very attractive levels as global demand for high-quality video content continues to grow.
Moving to free cash flow where we're also having a great year.
We generated nearly $2 billion in free cash flow in the first half a 16% increase compared to last year.
The year-over-year improvement is primarily due to the strong growth and adjusted operating income and a favorable swing in working capital.
And that was despite increases in cash taxes capital expenditures and cash interest.
The improvement in working capital primarily reflects lower participations at Warner Bros.
And cash taxes increased largely due to higher pretax income and the expiration of certain favorable tax legislation.
Meanwhile the increase in cash interest was due to higher debt balances and given the $2 billion of debt we raised during the second quarter we expect cash interest to be higher in the second half of the year.
So with our solid performance in the first half of the year we're on track for another very strong year of free cash flow generation in 2014.
Next I want to talk about our balance sheet and capital allocation philosophy.
We're strong believers that effective capital allocation can be as important to shareholder returns as strong operating performance and we've been steadfast in our commitment to maintaining an efficient balance sheet and to prudent capital allocation in order to provide superior shareholder returns.
That strategy has been working and we have no intention of changing it.
Our capital allocation priorities remain first and foremost to maintain a strong balance sheet so that we can fully invest to drive growth in our businesses.
Even so we generate substantial free cash flow.
We have committed a significant portion of that cash flow to our dividend with the highest payout ratio in the industry.
We've grown our dividend double digits each of the past 5 years and intend to continue to grow it along with our businesses.
Next we always look at M&amp;A opportunities as they present themselves.
Potential transactions need to provide strategic benefits with reasonable execution risk and risk-adjusted returns that are more attractive than our alternative uses of capital.
But we have leading scale in our businesses so we don't need to do anything.
Finally we believe share repurchases remain a very attractive use of capital and intend to continue using them to complement our dividend.
You can see that philosophy at work so far this year.
We ended the second quarter with $18.1 billion of net debt down about $230 million from the end of 2013.
That's largely due to our strong free cash flow generation the $1.4 billion in proceeds we received from Time Inc.
in connection with the spinoff and the $1.3 billion in proceeds from the sale of our space in Time Warner Center.
Our net leverage ratio was 2.5x as of June 30.
On the M&amp;A front we've invested over $850 million year-to-date.
The majority of this came in the second quarter as we closed our acquisition of Eyeworks' international television operations and completed financing arrangements with CME.
We're optimistic about the long-term opportunities for both and they fit in perfectly with our strategy of investing selectively in attractive international territories.
We also returned close to $3.5 billion to shareholders during the first half of the year including almost $3 billion of share repurchases.
And we believe our stock remains very attractive at current levels.
Now onto the final slide which shows our 2014 outlook.
We had a terrific first half of the year with all of our divisions delivering strong results.
And looking to the back half of the year we expect our underlying revenue trends to remain solid led by strong affiliate revenue growth at Turner and HBO.
At the same time we'll be making significant programming investments at both Turner and HBO face difficult theatrical comparisons at Warner's and anticipate a negative swing in intersegment eliminations.
So as implied by our outlook that will cause a deceleration and adjusted EPS growth in the back half of the year.
A few minutes ago I mentioned that we anticipate incurring restructuring charges and programming impairments in the second half.
In addition we anticipate a favorable tax settlement over this period.
While these items aren't currently reflected in our outlook on balance we expect they will have a net positive impact on adjusted EPS.
We'll share more details on those items as the year progresses.
Putting all that together we're on track for another year of solid double-digit growth and adjusted EPS.
As Jeff discussed we're confident that we can grow adjusted EPS even faster in the years to come.
Demand for the type of high-quality video content that we produced is only increasing and we expect to convert that into continued healthy revenue growth.
At the same time our efficiency initiatives and strict discipline managing non-programming expenses should result in further margin expansion driving strong growth and adjusted operating income.
And when you factor in our capital allocation strategy we believe we can deliver very attractive adjusted EPS growth for the foreseeable future.
As Jeff noted we look forward to sharing more of our plans with you at an investor event this fall.
With that I'll turn it back to Mike to start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Howard.
[Operator Instructions] I'll also remind you that will be not commenting on 21st Century Fox's proposal or its withdrawal.
Joe can you please open up the call for Q&amp;A? [Operator Instructions] And our first question here comes from Mr.
Michael Nathanson from MoffettNathanson.
I have 2 for Jeff.
Jeff I think over the past few weeks it was clear that you guys and the board have a strong conviction in the internal plan of Time Warner.
So you've helped us in the past talk about Turner's affiliate fee growth outlook but I wonder from where you sit as an insider what are the drivers of Time Warner's financials do you think are underappreciated from the outside world? Thanks Mike.
Well I'm glad you asked.
Look it's a pretty long list.
So let me just tick it off.
First of all I think that global growth in multichannel TV and in connected devices is fairly strongly increasing the value of high-quality video content and that's true all around the world.
And we think that if you look at Time Warner -- HBO Warner Turner all of our brands are very strong global brands.
We have global scale that gives us an advantage in creating the content and also distributing the content.
If you go to each company at Turner we've got very good visibility the next few years from the domestic affiliate renewal cycle and so that's a pretty significant contributor to growth.
We also expect to complement that with strong growth internationally particularly in Latin America.
That's true across Turner and HBO.
And I think people underestimate the opportunity we have in terms of reinvigorating our key Turner networks and in capitalizing on the under-monetized opportunities that exist there.
I'll just cite one you're going to hear more about it global kids Turner and Warner's.
HBO we're seeing really strong increased demand for the services and the content.
So both HBO subscription demand wherever we take it; and HBO content wherever we take that.
That's true all over the world.
I think people underestimate that.
Warner's is also very well positioned for continued growth with both the film side -- huge pipeline of franchise films and there are very strong secular trends in the TV series business which Warner is the leader in producing.
So I don't think that there's full appreciation of what we can do there.
And this is both film and TV.
And if you take just an example like DC which is pumping out so many new shows at Warner this year and then add to that as you look at more and more realized power from DC consumer products is an area where frankly we've underperformed what we can do and we think that that's going to be a real driver going forward.
So if you take all those together we're pretty confident that we can deliver very attractive revenue growth and we can turn that into even faster growth and adjusted OI.
And of course -- and I think our record speaks to this our approach to capital allocation if you take increased operating income growth levels we complement that with a fairly clear plan for capital allocation.
And so we feel comfortable that we can take increased OI growth and turn it into increased EPS growth.
And remember last quarter we said publicly that we expected to deliver EPS growth in the low- to mid-teens if not better.
You probably noticed I'm emphasizing the phrase if not better.
I'd also like to note that over the years we've consistently over-delivered and we look forward to sharing more about that in our -- of our long-term plans in the fall.
Okay.
Jeff can I ask you just a quick follow-up on SVOD? There's a rumor or a report over a couple of weeks ago that Seinfeld could actually be sold into SVOD and given the library of content you own in all the comedies does this suggest that you and Warner's are rethinking maybe your previous positions on SVOD? Or will you be a bit more aggressive about some of your library content in comedies especially? Well we've had a lot of SVOD rev and I'm going to come back to that but I think the crux of your question is that the emergence of new players is increasing the value of great content and we have more of that than everybody.
That's true on the film side; it's true on the TV series side.
It was quite obvious this quarter that even without the Amazon agreement our SVOD revenue would've been up double-digits.
As we look to the full year we expect SVOD to grow solid double-digits even without the HBO-Amazon deal.
And that growth is obviously even stronger if you include the HBO-Amazon agreement.
I'd like to point out since we mentioned the HBO deal that Amazon deal doesn't include some of HBO's most valuable content like Game of Thrones and True Detective.
Now there's nothing preventing us from monetizing kids shows like those in the future if we think it makes sense but the same thing is true for Warner Bros.
We have the biggest library of TV series and films in the world.
If you look at our SVOD revenue which was quite healthy.
Last year we had a base of -- in 2013 of about $400 million.
We're going to be up solid double-digits.
And by that I don't mean 10 to 20 I mean more.
And I think the opportunity is very very large in international territories.
So it's very clear there's big consuming [ph] amount for this content.
We think there is a increasingly competitive and strong set of buyers out there including Netflix but including Amazon and some others.
And so we're very confident we'll be able to effectively monetize our content and we're actually pretty happy with the way we've timed or sequenced the release of our library and you're going to be seeing more about that as the years go on.
Our next question here comes from John Janedis from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Howard can you talk a little bit more about third quarter guidance for advertising? Now obviously Jeff talked about the success of some of your originals.
How much of the weakness is ratings versus the ad market? And to what extent are you seeing signs of improvement in underlying demand? Your question is third quarter advertisers? Research Division</strong> Yes Jeff.
Okay.
So scatter pricing for entertainment nets is pacing up high single-digits over the upfront but we're just not seeing the volume overall.
And that's been true generally speaking.
Additionally the ratings at our networks do remain a drag.
Internationally we're [indiscernible] to see continued drag from FX and a modest slowdown in organic growth due to a tough comp.
So as I said in my prepared remarks we think overall advertising is going to be flat to down low single-digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe on a related topic Jeff can you talk more ratings at Turner? Is the weakness from new or returning shows and how much of the programming expense maybe skews to originals versus licensed relative to a few years ago? Yes okay.
So you got to deconstruct Turner through a different networks.
Let me kind of break it down.
You're asking about all of them right? I mean in general? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
So let's start with TNT which we mentioned on the call was #1 and a number of age groups in prime.
TBS was basically #3 in prime.
Adult swim was still #1 18 to 34.
CNN is still the destination [ph] for breaking news and leader in mobile.
If you really go from that in the ratings performance it's been a little weaker in the acquired programming not just at Turner but really in all basic cable networks.
The originals are doing well.
We mentioned on the call that the new originals we've launched this year are up 20% or more over the season -- all the originals are up 20%.
So it's coming around.
In 2014 we're ramping up the original programming.
I think we've said this publicly.
We've been around 20% of the air [ph] time original.
We're heading to 40% in the next year.
So we're going to still have very strong acquired programming but it will be a smaller piece of the schedule.
I think I've said on numerous calls in the past that our access to acquired programming is an advantage even though acquired programming as a general category is going a little weaker in basically all GE cable networks.
Our next question here will come from Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Jeff since you've taken over as CEO you've gone through shrinking the company down and clearly based on your prepared remarks you see a strategic advantage in being a more nimble focused company.
Does that reflect a view that there is a disadvantage or dis-synergy in size and complexity? And I'm wondering when you look at M&amp;A and consolidation in the space either as a seller or a buyer are you -- is there a general reluctance at Time Warner on the board level to sort of take on large-scale M&amp;A because of just the view that it actually hurts the business outlook? No I think you got to -- you can't make a general statement.
I think we've said and I think it's pretty clear we have leading scale in all of our businesses.
So we're not subscale.
We're not lacking something that we need.
And the next question it's not that it's ever a bad thing necessarily to add something that would bring either complementary fill-ins and maybe more scale in a given case maybe more efficiency and elimination of redundancy.
Those things are all fine.
But when you're looking at any particular case you have to look at what kind of scale are you adding? Let's take Time Warner.
On the studio side we're the biggest movie producer and distributor in the world.
We're the biggest producer and distributor of series in the world.
We have the biggest supply relations with the American 4 broadcast networks of anybody in the world.
So if you take that and you consider combining any number of other companies that do the same thing you'd have to ask just on that thought we'll get to networks is it a good idea? Does it add operating benefits or doesn't it? So that's on that.
If you go to the network side we've got the biggest network group.
We're second to nobody in the world.
And if you think -- and we've got very strong networks.
If you look at the Turner networks 4 of them are 85% of our business.
Basically the Turner networks don't have any weak sisters in the group.
If you look at HBO together with Turner it's an extremely strong network group.
If you then say "All right.
Well let's look at other networks around the world " which ones would improve the operating capabilities or the leverage or the programming capability or the distribution and marketing capability of that already strong group of networks? You can make cases depending on the hypothetical of which networks would help.
You can also look at networks that aren't so strong that would not help.
So you basically look at it that way.
When anybody is -- and if you take a big combination and I'm not speaking of any particular one there are always a number of issues.
There are benefits and there are risks to making any kind of combination like that.
There's also the factor of business interruption regulatory scrutiny and timings that comes into play.
So I would just encourage everybody because you're all looking at these kinds of things in more than one case to look at all sides of the issue when you're contemplating the benefits and the risks of putting very large companies together.
Research Division</strong> If I could just ask a follow-up.
You talked about at least low to mid or better.
One tool you have is the balance sheet.
And maybe Howard you'd want to comment.
Like I know it's an imperative to keep a strong balance sheet.
Do you -- are you committed to investment grade? I think the answer is yes.
And how high could you go and keep that kind of rating? Any comments on whether you guys would be more aggressive.
And I realize you've raised it in the past? Yes.
In setting our target we've had a very consistent and very balanced approach.
We've been very straightforward.
First of all we want to maintain a strong balance sheet that provides us stability to fully invest in our business.
We want to make sure we do have flexibility to engage in strategic M&amp;A that presents itself.
And it's really important that we continue to have access to capital markets across whatever is happening in the economy.
At the same time we really are trying to optimize our cost of capital to drive equity returns.
So as you know we incorporate a number of factors into that analysis including in our discussions -- on-going discussions with the rating agencies.
You know we raised our leverage to 2.75x earlier this year.
And that was to reflect an increased stability of our cash flow based on the timing [ph] spend.
We're always evaluating these factors.
But right now we feel like 2.75x does strike the right balance among all of those.
Our next question will come from Vasily Karasyov from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple on HBO.
Jeff I wonder if you could share the feedback from HBO's distributors and their reaction to the Amazon deal.
The reason I'm asking is several years ago Starz damaged its relationship severely with distributors when it -- they were relicensing to Netflix.
I was wondering what made the difference for you? Okay look.
Thank you.
That's a great point.
I think the difference a few years ago what Starz did was they sold their service as a subscription service at a lower price direct undercutting their own affiliates who were their partners.
It was literally the same service.
The HBO deal is selling programming that's very -- classic HBO hits that are about 3 years old to Amazon where Amazon is distributing that to a lot of viewers and households that don't have HBO.
So from the point of view of Amazon it's a fantastic product offering.
From the point of view of our cable and satellite and telco distributors it's a fantastic thing because you have the resources and marketing of Amazon to a subbase that frankly our distributors didn't have as much penetration as they would like.
So that's a great kind of partnership for our cable and sat distributors from the Amazon -- which Amazon's a very powerful retailer.
It's great to bring them into harmony with our cable and electronic distributors.
Therefore the distributors have really approved of the deal.
It's actually given everybody a new enthusiasm and particularly our underperforming affiliates on marketing more HBO and realizing that they can do much better -- huge profit for them if they add variable subs there's no real costs on their side.
And so what we're seeing is essentially a regeneration of really the upside of what distributors realize they can do with HBO.
Remember that one of the things that is intended [ph] to the Amazon offer which our distributors do have and it tends to get overlooked by everyone because it's "not new." HBO's got the strongest lineup of Hollywood movies of any subscription VOD service in the world.
They're current they're new they're powerful.
That's where you get them.
HBO also has a very well-recognized original programming slate that's at the top of its game.
Both of those are important.
And that's going to mean a big marketing push in our cable sat telco distributors this fall to regenerate subscriber growth all over the HBO footprint.
So what you really have is Amazon and the retail industry working together with the cable electronics satco industry to bring subscription premium TV in its best form to all people in the United States.
You can see us doing similar things overseas.
Scandinavia is the current vibrant case.
And of course HBO with its VOD offerings in U.K.
Germany Italy Australia in partnership with Sky in a number of those territories another powerful offering for consumers.
I think it's really a period of tremendous upside for HBO.
Research Division</strong> A quick follow-up.
So clearly HBO is at the very height of the creative cycle.
Can you help us understand or map out what would be the sequence of events that would allow to translate that into possibly acceleration in subscription revenue in the U.S.? Is it renegotiating contracts? Or how does it work? Yes thank you.
It's a good question.
I think what you're really saying is what can we do to improve the mix? Because you see some vibrant HBO sub growth domestically 2 million subs that we just reported even stronger overseas.
But on the domestic side we're constantly working with affiliates to figure out how can be better market and position the networks among our better performing affiliates.
Because some of them are up in the penetration areas that are quite inspiring for everybody.
But we've given them incentives to do that.
And we need to work together with them to share the economics of that.
If you then go to the less penetrated affiliates who are frankly missing a very important net operating contribution that they should have and it should provide sufficient incentive -- we're working hard to market with them in order to get them to be more effective in their distribution of our product.
That's all part of the renewal cycle.
Over the next couple of years we're going to turn over all the deals or most of the deals at HBO.
We think that we've got the right mix of incentives and consequences to drive better net performance and I don't say that in a way that would leave out profit gains for all our affiliates including the less performing ones but it certainly includes increased contribution to us.
Our next question here comes from Richard Greenfield from BTIG.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First off just in light of the A&amp;E and Disney OTT linear deals we saw A&amp;E yesterday curious how you think about single- and multi-stream offerings.
Disney and A&amp;E seemed to have taken pretty different approaches in terms of single versus multi and wanted your perspective on either.
Thanks Rich.
Well we're certainly open to opportunities to grow our business and we're not philosophically opposed to an over-the-top virtual MVPD model.
We've said that before.
We just have to believe that it will be additive to the total situation that we've got rather than subtract it.
And so in the 2 that you mentioned there's still a lot of questions in terms of the ad model the quality of service how it would impact investment in the plant.
But take the DISH streaming service.
It's a concept we're interested in because of the way that it is designed very much targets incremental subs and at a price point that would be attractive to younger people particularly.
A similar one would be Comcast selling HBO on a lightweight TV package which allows you to target a group of consumers that might otherwise not subscribe to the multichannel TV package.
And that could be a great entrée into the ecosystem for the younger consumers who would then trade up over time.
To your point on the Disney and A&amp;E approaches the parameters of the offering are important to make sure that it's incremental.
So the number of streams as you're I think asking is an important consideration.
So we can't -- we're not going to set a rule on a 5-amps call about how we're doing it but I think that the Disney approach is kind of directionally the right philosophical approach.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just following up on that we believe that part of why Rupert was so interested in acquiring Time Warner was he saw this as a way to launch an everything Fox.
I mean basically an everything Fox including Warner Bros.
and Time Warner's consumer offering.
Could you do the same on your own? Do you look at Turner and HBO as something that you could offer directly to consumers as a package? I guess why or why not? Well yes we could.
And let me just say what we are doing.
At HBO we're investing in top talent including a large team of software developers in Seattle that are working on HBO.
And as I think you've been among several reviewers groups have said I think you're right.
That's a very good product.
It's a very good consumer experience.
So what we're doing there is we're trying to be best in class to have a platform that could not only deliver HBO networks but also Turner networks and frankly other networks.
It doesn't have to be just be ones that we own.
I think it's important for everybody in thinking about that to ask themselves should offerings be determined for consumers based on what a company owns? That's not how consumers would program their dial.
And I think one should always look at what consumers want to do and harness those platforms that keep in mind exactly the range of products that consumers want.
We think that we can have that for our HBO Turner or Warner product but we're anticipating that people will want more than that.
Our next question here will come from Doug Creutz from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> You guys have talked about some of the ratings challenges you faced recently but more broadly it seems like ratings in the second quarter were pretty weak across the board.
Do you think there's anything bigger going on there? Or is this just kind of normal variability in TV viewing? Thanks Doug.
Well let me note I think you're generally right.
Ratings were kind of weak across the dial -- the TV dial.
Broadcast finished out 3%.
Ad-supported cable was down 4%.
There's some -- some did a little better some did a lot worse.
But essentially viewing was stable but a little on the weak side across the TV dial.
That however is before online viewing is fully captured.
And it isn't really being measured.
And it's not that big.
But it's significant to some extent at the margin.
And even though it's not being measured a decent amount of it is being monetized.
So the issue's a little overblown.
If you're asking "Do we think there's a secular trend in lower audience viewing across the TV dial?" we would say no.
Thank Doug and thanks everybody for joining us today.
If you have any questions please follow-up.
We'll be around.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Time Warner Inc.
Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
My name is Janette and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Time Warner's third quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued 2 press releases one detailing our results for the third quarter and the other updating our 2014 full year business outlook.
Before we begin there are 2 items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that is available on our website.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I'll now turn the call over to Jeff Bewkes Time Warner's Chairman and CEO; who will be borrowed by Howard Averill Time Warner's CFO.
After their prepared remarks our divisional CEOs John Martin Richard Plepler and Kevin Tsujihara will join us for a Q&amp;A session to answer any follow-up questions you may have from our investor event last month.
With that Jeff? Thanks Mike and thanks for listening in this morning.
We had another quarter of solid revenue growth and strong growth in adjusted EPS and that puts us on track for another very good year of financial performance in 2014.
But more important we're executing our longer range plans to go after the large and growing global opportunity we see in video content that opportunity and our plans to capitalize on it was a focus of the investor event we held last month.
I'd like to thank all of you who took the time either in person or by videocast to attend.
We were pleased to share our long-range plan and financial targets with you.
Those targets include adjusted EPS of close to $6 a share in 2016 and over $8 a share in 2018 representing a more than doubling of our earnings over the next few years.
We also discussed with you the significant upside opportunities that we believe exist above and beyond those targets.
Those include the new global kids partnership between Turner and Warner Bros and the even greater exploitation of our IP at DC Entertainment and the potential for breakout hits at Turner and a standalone broadband-delivered HBO product we intend to introduce domestically next year.
We've been positioning ourselves to go after that big opportunity in video I mentioned earlier by streamlining our company putting in a new generation of collaborative leaders and executing a strategy that has not only served Time Warner and its shareholders well over the past several years but is also evolving to incorporate new opportunities outside the traditional ecosystem.
And with our scale position and our leading portfolio of brands we think we are the best positioned media company to take advantage of that opportunity.
While evolving our strategy remains focused on 4 key areas: content technology international and efficiency.
And there's a reason that investing in content is at the top of the list because great content is the life blood of our company.
We spent close to $14 billion on content and related marketing expenses last year.
We'll invest even more this year and in the years ahead because of our confidence in our unique ability to monetize those investments.
For example both HBO and Turner had double-digit increases in Subscription revenues during the quarter and that flows directly from having the best story to tell.
You can see further evidence of our commitment to the best storytelling in the 19 Primetime Emmy Awards HBO received the most of any network for the 13th consecutive year with True Detective receiving 5 awards.
And as I've mentioned before True Detective was the most-watched freshman series in HBO history.
And it wasn't the only successful new hit on a service that already boasts its strongest lineup of original shows ever.
Newcomer The Leftovers averaged over 7 million viewers per episode received a lot of critical acclaim and has been renewed for a second season.
Turner is also investing in great original content and you're seeing the results of those investments.
TNT ranked its ad-supported cable's #1 prime time network for the second consecutive quarter.
TNT's series Rizzoli &amp; Isles Major Crimes and The Last Ship comprised 3 of the top 5 original series on ad-supported cable in the third quarter and TBS was the #2 ad-supported cable network in prime time among adults 18 to 49 and 25 to 54.
But not to be outdone Adult Swim was once again ad-supported cable's #1 total day network among all its key adult demos.
Turner's recent extension of its 3-decade relationship with the NBA through the 2024 to 25 season is yet another great example of investing in distinctive programming that will serve us well for years to come.
The agreement will further grow our partnership with additional games continued management of NBA's digital assets and new digital rights for Bleacher Report.
Our investment in great storytelling is also paying off at Warners which is the leading producer for broadcast TV for the 11th time out of the past 12 seasons.
This fall the Big Bang Theory and The Voice are once again the #1 scripted and non-scripted shows respectively on all of television.
And we're particularly pleased with 2 new shows Gotham which ranks as broadcast's #2 new show with adults 18 to 49; and The Flash whose premiere drew close to 7 million viewers making it The CW's most-watched telecast ever.
Both those programs are based on IP from our DC Entertainment group and they lead a roster of 5 DC-based shows that we have on broadcast this season.
As Warner announced at our investor event DC is also a big part of our theatrical strategy with 10 DC-based films slated for release between 2016 and 2020.
Warner also unveiled plans for films built around the LEGO franchise and the World of Harry Potter conceived by J.
K.
Rowling.
More imminently we're going to see another terrific example of our franchise products when the final installment in Peter Jackson's Hobbit trilogy Battle of the Five Armies storms theaters in December.
As we're investing in great content it's worth emphasizing our commitment to a strong multichannel ecosystem.
That commitment is clear in the new NBA agreement I just mentioned which represents an investment of more than $10 billion in the kind of must-have content that makes the TV bundle so valuable to consumers and it makes our networks essential within these bundles.
On top of our sports commitment we intend to double our spending on original programming over the next several years.
So in total we expect to grow our annual programming investment at Turner to over $5 billion within the next several years.
Our commitment is also clear in products like CNN Go which we recently launched and is perhaps the most advanced TV Everywhere product yet developed.
Similarly Turner's leading the charge in providing in-season stacking rights to our distributors and consumers when many of our peers have been reticent to do so.
At HBO we're equally committed to working with our distribution partners to grow our mutual business.
Where others have cut back on their investments to drive margins HBO has been investing aggressively in original programming and it's extended its film output deals to maintain the very best selection of recent Hollywood hit.
And HBO GO is the gold standard TV Everywhere product for the industry.
At the same time we can't ignore the growing opportunity outside the ecosystem.
So we'll be investing there as well.
I already mentioned our plans to expand the reach of HBO to consumers who are not currently multichannel subscribers and we'll be working very closely with our current distribution partners in that area.
We think that's a big opportunity.
We are also thrilled with the performance of CNN.com which in September surpassed Yahoo! News to become the most consumed news and information website in the United States as measured by both page views and video starts.
At Warner's we recently created a new division Blue Ribbon Content to focus on short-form digital content.
Its initial lineup consists of both original concepts and DC-based content including an innovative virtual reality experience produced for the Samsung GALAXY Gear VR and Oculus Rift that will take you inside the bat cave.
That's exactly the type of innovative storytelling that will allow Warner Bros.
to remain at the forefront of the industry as consumer viewing habits continue to evolve.
When we talk about pursuing opportunities outside the ecosystem I think there's an important point to keep in mind.
If you look back over the past decade we've seen the introduction of all kinds of new platforms and services for video including iTunes YouTube and SVOD offerings from Hulu Netflix and Amazon.
And what we've seen both outside the system and inside it through services like our own VOD and our own TV Everywhere product is that the more options you give audiences to access video content the greater the consumption.
Rather than merely shifting share from one platform to another we continue to see growth in the video universe.
And that's why we're convinced we can effectively pursue growth in both areas.
Now before I turn it over to Howard I want to say again how confident we are in Time Warner's position.
We're proud of our track record of industry-leading EPS growth and shareholder returns over the past 5-plus years.
We're really just getting started.
The best video content is growing in value and we occupy the perfect position in the value chain to benefit from that.
And so while there are risks we're confident we can mitigate them.
We have an industry-leading collection of must-have networks we have unmatched film and TV production capabilities we have leading global brands and we're investing in the very best programming to capitalize on growth across all distribution platforms both within the traditional ecosystem and outside of it.
All of that gives us great confidence in the financial plan we presented last month in the upside opportunities we discussed and in our ability to continue delivering industry-leading shareholder returns.
And with that let me turn it over to Howard.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide of our presentation which is now available on our website.
We're really pleased with our performance so far this year and the progress we're making toward the longer-term targets we discussed with you last month.
While there were a number of moving pieces in the quarter on the whole our results were a little better than we expected and that included a further acceleration and subscription revenue growth at both Turner and HBO.
Before I go to our divisional results I'd like to address the restructuring severance and programming charges and tax matter that we outlined at our investor meeting 3 weeks ago.
We will take over $400 million in restructuring and severance charges in the second half of this year.
About $300 million of that was recognized in the third quarter.
The charges reflect our company-wide focus on efficiency and stem from global reviews of our businesses by the new CEOs at each of our divisions.
We previously discussed with you the importance of constraining non-programming costs and this is a reflection of our commitment to that goal.
We expect to generate annual savings from our restructuring actions of around $450 million over time with much of it coming in 2015.
That will allow us to invest even more in great content and help position us for future growth across the company.
Additionally Turner decided to stop airing certain programming that no longer fit the brand promise of its networks.
As a result Turner incurred a significant programming charge this quarter.
Since some of the programming was licensed from Warner Bros.
the net impact to the company after accounting for intercompany eliminations was $343 million.
More than offsetting these items on an after-tax basis was a $639 million net benefit resulting from tax matters primarily as a result of a federal tax settlement.
Given their nature and size my comments throughout the presentation will largely focus on results excluding these 3 items.
So excluding them our adjusted EPS would have been $0.97 and that benefited from our ongoing share repurchase program.
During the quarter we repurchased $1.6 billion in shares and year-to-date we bought back close to $4.9 billion of our stock.
Combined with paying close to $850 million in dividends that means we have returned over $5.7 billion of capital to shareholders so far this year and that's after investing more than $10 billion in programming production and related marketing.
So we're continuing to invest aggressively in our businesses while providing significant direct returns to shareholders.
This morning we increased our 2014 adjusted EPS guidance to high teens growth which includes an estimated net benefit of around $0.15 from the reversal of tax reserves and the programming restructuring and severance charges in the third and fourth quarters.
So we're firmly on track for our sixth consecutive year of double-digit growth and adjusted EPS.
And I'll touch on that in more detail later in the presentation.
Now turning to the segment highlights.
I'll begin at Turner where we continue to see strong subscription revenue growth.
Subscription revenues increased 10% in the quarter an acceleration from the second quarter and that included a pickup in growth at both our domestic and international businesses.
International subscription revenue increased in the low double digits primarily due to positive trends in Latin America.
Domestic subscription revenue growth remains very healthy and was again in the high single digits as Turner continues to benefit from the rate increases associated with its domestic affiliate renewals.
And as we look out over the next several years we expect subscription revenue to remain a key driver of growth at Turner.
Moving on.
Advertising revenue declined just under 2% in line with our expectations coming into the quarter.
Domestic advertising was essentially flat and that included a low single-digit decline in domestic entertainment including young adults which was offset by solid growth at news.
While our original programming at TNT performed well over the summer ratings at our domestic networks have remained a headwind and scatter demand in the quarter remained moderate.
International advertising was down in the quarter partly due to adjustments impacting year-over-year comparability and FX.
Excluding those factors international advertising declined in the mid-single digits and that was largely a result of somewhat lower demand in Latin America following the World Cup.
In the fourth quarter scatter pricing has been pacing up high single to low double digits over the upfront while volume has remained relatively modest.
With that backdrop we anticipate total advertising revenues to be about flat in the quarter and that includes a drag of about 500 basis points as a result of fewer Major League Baseball playoff games the strengthening U.S.
dollar and DISH pulling down certain of our networks.
Without those we would have anticipated a return to growth in the quarter.
Excluding the programming and restructuring charges in each period adjusted operating income would have grown modestly.
That reflects healthy revenue growth and our continued focus on limiting non-programming expenses.
Excluding those charges programming cost increased in the low double digits due to the new MLB deal and the airing of additional original episodes.
Looking to the fourth quarter we expect very healthy underlying trends and subscription revenues and have easier comparisons on the programming cost side due to impairments in the year-ago period.
And depending on its length those will be offset either modestly or to a more significant degree by our DISH dispute.
Looking beyond 2014 we anticipate the restructuring efforts this year to result in over $200 million in annual savings at Turner with a majority of those savings starting in 2015.
Those savings will help fund aggressive investments in programming while allowing for sustainable margin expansion.
And combined with what we expect to be accelerating subscription revenue growth in 2016 and beyond we plan to deliver very strong growth and adjusted operating income for the next several years.
Turning now to HBO where we continue to have very good operating momentum.
Subscription revenues increased 10% in the quarter with the consolidation of HBO Asia contributing about 400 basis points to that growth.
As we discussed with you at our Investor Day domestic sub-trends remained very healthy with HBO on track for its best year in almost 2 decades.
And combined with some improvement in the subscriber mix that resulted in a modest acceleration in domestic subscription revenue growth in the quarter.
As a reminder we have now fully lapped the consolidation of both HBO Nordic and HBO Asia so subscription revenue growth should return to a more normal level in the fourth quarter.
Content revenues grew 7% and that was driven by increased international licensing revenues and strong home video sales.
Those factors more than offset lower domestic syndication sales.
In the quarter we recognized $48 million of restructuring charges related to the company-wide efforts I discussed at the start of my presentation.
Excluding restructuring charges in both periods adjusted operating income would have grown modestly in the quarter.
Programming expense growth included 600 basis points from the consolidation of HBO Asia.
Looking through that programming expenses increased 10% driven by mid-teens growth in original programming as a result of spending on new series including The Leftovers and The Net.
HBO's international operations posted another quarter of solid growth with total revenue including unconsolidated JVs increasing double digits.
And that included growth in both licensing and our networks businesses which continue to benefit from robust sub-growth especially in Latin America.
Looking after the fourth quarter we anticipate continued solid growth in subscription revenues.
At the same time programming expenses should grow in the mid-teens primarily due to the timing of theatrical expenses.
But given the strong year-to-date results and very healthy underlying trends HBO remains on track for another year of solid growth in adjusted OI.
And we think HBO is well-positioned to grow at even more attractive rates for the next several years.
Moving on to Warner Bros.
where we're benefiting from increased global demand for our content and are on track for another very good year despite difficult theatrical comparisons in the third and fourth quarters.
Looking specifically at the third quarter and excluding restructuring charges in both periods adjusted operating income would have fallen 6% and that included both the benefit from a patent license and settlement agreement as well as a drag from a onetime VAT catch-up.
Theatrically our lineup was not as strong as the year ago when we released The Conjuring and We’re the Millers and the carryover revenue from Man of Steel but the fourth quarter got off to a great start with Annabelle and we're excited about our upcoming releases which include the international opening of Interstellar this week as well as the final installment of the Hobbit and American Sniper next month.
And longer term we think we have the strongest slate in the history of the company.
So overall we feel really good about the outlook for our theatrical business.
On the TV side demand for our product remains robust with revenues growing high single digits in the quarter.
That included growth in SVOD revenue and increased TV production including the consolidation of Eyeworks.
Across theatrical and TV Home Entertainment revenue was stable in the quarter.
And digital trends remain very positive with electronics sell-through growing over 50%.
Looking at the fourth quarter Warner Bros.
will incur additional restructuring charges of around $100 million.
In addition we face difficult home video and theatrical comparisons.
Recall that last year's fourth quarter set a record for Warner Bros.
as it benefited from the home video releases of Man of Steel Pacific Rim and The Hangover Part III as well as the theatrical release of Gravity.
But if not for the restructuring charges I just noted Warner's would be on track for record year.
And the global demand increasing for the high-quality content that Warner Bros.
specializes in we're confident we can grow the business at very attractive levels for the foreseeable future.
Turning to free cash flow which also remains healthy we generated $2.5 billion in free cash flow year-to-date similar to year-ago levels and that's despite a material increase in cash taxes due principally to the expiration of certain favorable tax legislation.
As you can see on the slide we've broken out the programming restructuring and severance charges incurred in the third quarter which had a significant impact on adjusted operating income.
It's worth noting that the majority of severance payments related to the restructurings will come in 2015.
Cutting through the noise we're on track for another year of healthy free cash flow generation in 2014 and we expect to continue converting a very high percentage of our earnings into free cash flow in the years to come.
Now on to our balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $19.3 billion of net debt.
That's up over $1 billion versus the end of 2013 and that's primarily due to our commitment to direct shareholder returns.
During the first 9 months we returned $5.3 billion to shareholders including almost $4.5 billion in share repurchases.
And we continue to think our stock is very attractive at these levels.
On the M&amp;A front we've invested about $880 million year-to-date.
A majority of this came in the second quarter as we closed our acquisition of Eyeworks international television operations and completed financing arrangements with CME.
Due to the programming restructuring and severance charges in the third quarter our net leverage ratio was 2.9x as of September 30.
However excluding those charges our net leverage ratio would have been 2.6x.
On that basis we're on track to reach our target net leverage ratio of 2.75x by the end of the year.
And as we said last month we remain committed to maintaining our solid investment-grade credit rating.
Now onto the final slide which shows our 2014 outlook.
This morning we raised our full year 2014 outlook to high teens adjusted EPS growth.
Our outlook includes a net benefit of approximately $0.15 from the tax matters and programming restructurings and severance charges I noted earlier.
One item that could impact our result is our current carriage dispute with DISH.
And as I noted before DISH has unilaterally dropped a number of our networks.
Furthermore our contracts for TNT and TBS expire soon.
We're working hard to reach a new agreement in the near future but if we're not able to our adjusted EPS would likely come in toward the lower end of the range I just provided.
Excluding the $0.15 net benefit I just mentioned and any potential impact from DISH we would still be tracking ahead of the outlook we have provided in August.
And that's despite the significant 4Q programming investments at HBO and difficult 4Q comparisons at Warner Bros.
So we're pleased with our performance this year and the investments we're making in high-quality video content put us in a great position to deliver the double-digit CAGR and adjusted OI and over $8 in adjusted EPS by 2018 that we discussed with you last month.
With that I'll turn it back to Mike to start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Howard.
Janette if we could go ahead and open up the line? [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Michael Morris of Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on programming at Turner.
First with respect to the size of the content write-off it's pretty substantial relative to let's say the cost of an individual episode of programming.
Can you provide more color on what was included in the write-off and how it affects sort of your investment on programming going forward? And then second of all you recently announced the hiring of Kevin Reilly as the Head of TBS and TNT.
Can you talk a bit about why he's the right person and how that affects the investment there? I'll take that.
Mike I think as you may all remember when we started this we've got all the CEOs here.
So John's here and I think it's probably better for you to start John.
All right thanks.
Good morning Mike.
Thanks for the question.
Listen and I think Howard said this in his proactive remarks that the charge that we took was a portfolio of programming that no longer fits the brand direction that we want to take each of TNT and TBS in.
But the biggest components included The Mentalist and a number of shows that we had historically with the relationship with Tyler Perry including House of Pain.
And that is going to allow us to better program the network with series that better fit the evolving brands.
In terms of the impact that it's going to have on overall investment levels going forward as I said at the recent analyst meeting our intention and expectation is to contain overall programming costs at Turner to be no more than high single digits over several years on an annual basis.
And we have every confidence that we can do it.
But I want to make sure I want to pause for a second because I don't want people to believe that acquired programming no longer has a place on our networks.
I think the only change in our view of acquired is that we need to be more selective which is similar to our strategy with originals by the way as we'll look to get -- to become more distinctive in our programming and over time targeting a younger audience particularly on TNT.
But acquired can still play an important role for the foreseeable future and all you need to look at is the big big hits like Big Bang Theory which is going to have a place in prime time for the foreseeable future.
So that answers that question and thank you for mentioning the hiring of Kevin which we announced yesterday.
And speaking on behalf of David Levy who is the Direct Hiring Manager and myself we couldn't be more thrilled that Kevin's going to be coming over to join us here at Turner.
I mean he is absolutely one of the most respected innovative and influential executives in this industry and he's always been a champion of quality television who does not shy away from taking bold programming risks.
And we've carved out and created a new role for him because of his unique tastes experience and his creative relationships.
He'll have the title Chief Creative Officer which will allow him to work with and lead the Turner creative executives and finding new ways to reach viewers with programming that plays to the strength of our various brands and platforms.
So really really thrilled.
Yes John.
Michael it's Richard.
I'll just punctuate that.
I mean Kevin enjoys a truly stellar reputation in Hollywood.
And my emails yesterday were plentiful with people from the community just saying bravo to our cousins at Turner's for making that hire.
I think it's a very smart creative choice and he's going to do great things there.
Warner Bros.
has -- this is Kevin.
Warner Bros.
has a fantastic relationship with Kevin that goes back a long way.
And as Richard said the creative community response has been tremendous regarding this hire.
So we're really excited about it.
Mike this is Howard.
I just wanted to come back.
Mike this is Howard.
I just wanted to come back and just reiterate the fact that on a net basis the programming impairment is $343 million which is consistent with what I outlined at the Investor Day.
The decision was a jump point.
It was really about making the most in programming so that we could move faster.
We don't expect to have any significant savings over the term or the long range plan on that.
And our next question comes from Jessica Reif Cohen of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It's great that you have the division guys on so we'll take advantage of that.
One for John and one for Richard.
So on the DISH dispute which you guys brought up a few times I'm just wondering you said it might affect Q4 -- or Howard said it might affect Q4 earnings.
But John how do you -- how should we think about this over the longer term given the guidance you've given for affiliate fee growth of low double digits? And for Richard I just want to ask about the broadband opportunity which Jeff just highlighted.
Do you see that -- and you've obviously discussed it at the Analyst Day but do you see the standalone broadband opportunity as a bigger potential opportunity for HBO than simply driving performance from the poorer-performing pay-TV operators to like the mid or upper level? Like which one is the bigger opportunity? Thanks Jessica it's John.
I'll start.
Listen I mean ordinarily we wouldn't be in the practice of commenting publicly as it relates to what's a private business dispute.
But given Charlie Ergen's comments on the earnings call yesterday I just want to provide a little bit of context from our perspective.
And it think it's fair to say that we disagree with virtually everything he said as it related to the importance of our product as it related to his platform.
We were both disappointed in the very antagonistic and aggressive nature of his comments yesterday and we're disappointed particularly given the fact that DISH had previously agreed to our network's rates and our carriage proposals weeks ago.
And we were working hard to get a deal done.
We were supportive in fact unclear now of additional TT efforts and we have found common ground on virtually all of the major issues there.
So while there clearly were more deal points to get done they are not of the type of nature that would result in networks going dark.
And I think all of us sitting around the table have been in this industry a long time so we have a pretty good sense of what those are.
So to us it's unclear exactly what the dispute with DISH is and we were told by them that we were taken down because we wouldn't move an expiration date later into the year.
What's kind of interesting about that is it was an expiration date for networks that aren't even up yet.
And it's important to note that other top five U.S.
distributors have signed up for the deal that DISH has now walked away from.
And look we're confident in our brands.
The value of the Turner news entertainment kids and young adult brands and the content that we have are reflected in the leadership positions that we have across the media landscape.
And we have 2 of the top 5 3 of the top 10 and 5 of the top 30 cable networks.
We're the only programming group that has that.
And CNN is #2 in ratings #1 in reach and it has the most innovative TV everywhere product available on the market.
So we honestly have no idea what DISH was talking about yesterday.
Having said all of that Turner's had a long-term relationship with DISH that has been to a mutual benefit.
And that's one of the reasons that we agree to multiple calendar extensions during this lengthy negotiation process and we worked diligently and in good faith to try to address what those issues are.
In fact we even stayed at the table after DISH removed our networks from their service.
And look we believe in our brands and we're willing to work constructively to get a deal done in the near term.
So Jessica just to get your point about the impact on guidance we still expect we'll reach a deal.
So we don't expect this is going to impact our long-term guidance.
Jessica yes Richard -- Jessica I'm going to answer your broadband-only question.
So look first of all as I think I said on Investor this is not binary it is not one of the others it's multilateral.
We're going to go first after the enormous opportunity that I spoke about in 70 million homes that do not get HBO in the MVPD universe.
We think as I've told you there's 10 to 15 million persuadable homes.
We want to work with our partners to attack that market aggressively.
And in the broadband-only universe we think there's 4 million to 5 million also working with our partners.
So to us this is just net upside everywhere margin upside everywhere.
I talked to all of our distributors about it.
We want to lean in with them early in the new year begin working on the plans for this for 2015.
And I see nothing but upside for us nothing but upside for the consumer nothing but upside for our distributors.
And our next question comes from John Janedis of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> John you mentioned syndication earlier.
As content has become available in more platforms there is a view in the market that it's weighing on syndication broadly.
So can you tell us what you're seeing globally in syndication and to what extent you're seeing either inflation or deflation in license fees? This is Kevin from Warner Bros.
I think that what we're continuing to see is on a global basis demand for our product and the pricing for our product continues to go up.
And as John said the programming that -- the hit programming that continues to kind of dominate the airwaves today is the programming that you're seeing the most pricing power on.
And so -- but international markets are very strong right now and we continue to -- we expect to continue to see that in the foreseeable future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just going back John to this question maybe.
Just going forward it seems like distributors are appreciatingly focusing on ratings when negotiating fees.
And so how relevant are ratings in your view? And is this argument missing viewers and platforms that aren't -- but will be measured someday? Yes.
I mean look and I noticed from my experience on this side being a programmer I also know from my experience having worked at Time Warner Cable for a number of years.
Ratings are one measurement but there is not a particularly strong correlation between ratings and affiliate fees because what's more important than ratings is the brand affinity and the passion engagement that subscribers have with particular branded environments and networks.
And so you can have a network that has lower ratings but has a subset of fans like Turner Classic Movies for example that are incredibly passionate about a particular network.
Those networks can command a premium and affiliate fees because the distributors value that relationship with the consumer.
And so I don't want to say that ratings are unimportant because obviously higher-rated networks mean that viewers are spending more and more time with them.
But it's only one of a number of a variety of factors that determines what clears the affiliate fee price in the marketplace.
I just want to add the classic example of that is sports.
Our next question comes from Ben Swinburne of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You guys talked about sort of moving into new areas and at the same time supporting the ecosystem.
And you highlighted the NBA Jeff.
There's a lot out there about the NBA looking to go over the top.
Adam Silver did an interview talking about an urgency to do that soon.
And I think ESPN has at least hinted at the idea of doing something as well.
How does NBA ESPN over-the-top fit into your worldview? And how does Turner participate or not participate in that opportunity? I'm going to give it to John to ask him about Turner.
Yes thanks.
To a large extent as you add more opportunities for consumers to see things on demand that's probably a good thing to strengthen their attachment and engagement with the brands.
And most of their -- most of the consumers' increasing excitement with engagement time spent every day goes across a number of channels that they watch on demand on their television and then it they want to leave the house they can watch it on a mobile device.
And so I think what you're seeing here is really an increase in the value of having these networks and having a lot of them on on demand basis.
But I'll give -- John you can talk about the specifics of the...
Thanks Jeff.
I mean further to what Jeff just said listen we're supportive of the relationship between the NBA and ESPN as it relates to this OTT package but I do think it's very important to understand what it is and what it is not.
The OTT package is very targeted.
It's a mobile product with select out-of-market games.
It won't include any of the games that air on our networks.
Those are exclusive to us and include our own digital rights with respect to those and it wont's include any playoff games.
So it doesn't impact the package that we have with the NBA at all.
We still have the same package of exclusive Thursday night games.
In fact we got 12 additional games.
And as I mentioned we maintain all streaming rights there.
We already partner with the NBA on an OTT call offering.
It's called NBA League Pass and we're continuing to manage the NBA's digital properties and we partner on NBA TV.
And lastly I would mention we also got increased digital rights for Bleacher Report which is the #2 sports destination now in the U.S.
So there were plenty of digital rights that were spread around and we think it's good for the NBA.
We think they were very smart the way that we're approaching that they've approached it.
And I think it's going to work out well for all 3 parties us ESPN and the NBA.
Research Division</strong> And can I ask Kevin a follow-up along the same lines around the ecosystem with Gotham? Kevin can you talk about that deal why that was the right deal for Warner with Netflix? You mentioned full seasons stacking and Fox does not have stacking rights for that show.
So it went in a different direction.
Why was that the right path for Warner and Time Warner on that property? It was the right deal for that particular show at that moment in time.
I think that as we look more broadly at stacking we believe that stacking rights are very much important to be part of the overall TV Everywhere experience and that you can make that argument that by allowing cable networks and broadcast networks to stack our program it actually increases the value of the long-term value of the content.
It increases the amount of sampling of a show.
If you look at something like Gotham and if you add all the viewing and I think Fox just reported this if you take out live plus same day you add the 7-day DVR you add the days 4 plus you're now looking at a P2-plus number of 22 million viewers.
That kind of viewing when cum'd like that that would put in a top 10 show 10 years ago.
So I think we need to look at these kinds of things differently.
We need to obviously figure out ways to monetize that audience more effectively but it does kind of show the value of product and the fact that viewing is happening in many different ways today and we just have to catch up in the way we measure it and we monetize it.
It's John.
We couldn't agree more.
I mean the same thing on Last Ship where half of the viewing was non-live.
Falling Skies the same thing; Legends significant increase.
All of these shows well Last Ship and Falling Skies were stacked and we saw significant catch-up viewing deep into the season.
So this -- we think the industry who is not granting stacking is looking at this the wrong way.
This is about creating hits and the ability for consumers to find shows and to make it convenient for them increases their discovery and their willingness to view shows.
So at Turner we have a deal with Warner's.
And really really couldn't be more pleased with Kevin's support and team's support of Warner's.
We're going to be looking to stack all of our originals.
Richard talk about -- I mean HBO basically stacks our originals.
So it's selling something.
But I've said this before.
If you just take Thrones or True Detective or as an example on Sunday night itself we're doing probably somewhere in the neighborhood of 25% or 30% viewing.
And then on demand it is doing another 60%.
And then you have HBO GO.
So even a show as popular as Thrones or True Detective is doing 75% 80% if it's viewing on non-premiere nights.
And for us obviously making show available when the consumer wants and how they want it is how we cume up the numbers as high as 19.5 million for Thrones 13 million for True Detective.
John Oliver or Bill Maher cuming over 4 million same viewing patterns.
So we -- this is more evidence that the TV Everywhere basically including all networks on demand and having it available on your television is what the ecosystem should do it's what cable and telcos should offer it's what networks should grant for their current year seasons.
You can see it.
It's as clear as a 5-lane highway.
So let's get everybody out there on how to get it done.
And our next question comes from Alexia Quadrani of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you provide a bit more color on the upside in HBO subscriber growth domestically in the quarter? I guess was it driven by more favorable terms with some of your distributors more aggressive marketing? I guess any color behind that? And if we should expect it to continue to the fourth quarter? Yes I think we have better performing distributors in Time Warner Cable and some of our others.
And as I made clear you have a vast disparity and penetration as low as 14 and as high as 42.
So we'll work very hard on this year getting some of our lower penetrating distributors up.
That happened.
We've seen nothing but a real upside on that going forward.
And again as I've talked about the data that makes clear how many persuadable homes there are out there we are now taking all of that inside our distributors breaking it down for them and making clear how much upside opportunity is available to them.
The response as I said on Investor Day has been extremely enthusiastic.
So we believe we're going to see all of those distributors leaning into that possibility going forward.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up if I can on Turner.
Can you talk about the difference that you're seeing particularly now with a bit more volatility in the ad market between the demand and maybe pricing for sports programming versus general entertainment? Sure.
Right now we're doing really really well with the NBA.
And so relative to general entertainment which is probably a better proxy for the broader market I'd say sports is stronger.
And just to repeat what Howard said we're doing fine in terms of pricing in the scatter market.
There just isn't the type of volume that we would like in an ideal world but sports for us is working quite well.
Research Division</strong> Would you say the volume deteriorated in October or is it about the same? I didn't hear the question.
No there hasn't been a demonstrable trends line difference in volume.
And our next question comes from Michael Nathanson of Nathanson.
I have one for John and Jeff one for Kevin which I want to take if you can.
In answering the DISH question you did bring up that personal streaming service and you're positive about it.
So can you walk us through the parameters of that deal? And what gives you comfort that signing up with a personal streaming service won't impact the 90 million homes that are paying for a bigger bundle? Well yes I mean I mentioned it.
I mean look we don't have a deal with them.
So we -- and I think we've been fairly consistent Michael in our view of OTT and -- or what were called virtual MVPDs.
What's important for us and what would make us support a service like this would be to get the networks that are leading networks into those packages.
And I'll go back to what I said at the Analyst Day we've got virtually all of our economics in our top 4 or 5 networks.
And we don't have that many networks that are niche that are small that don't much in terms of ratings that aren't that important.
And so we would anticipate as over time if bundles get smaller we would be able to protect and hopefully even expand as these services will appeal to a greater level of audience our overall appeal and overall number of consumers that we can get in front of.
So John are there conditions on the size of the number of networks in that streaming bundle that you had to work with? That's a question for DISH not for us.
Okay.
And let me ask one for Kevin.
Kevin when answering the stacking rights questions John and Richard both said how important stacking rights are to their in the networks.
And a lot of times they mentioned their original content that they've stacked.
I wonder going forward given the Gotham example do you think your role as independent producer for broadcasters may change because networks want to may -- control more of their stacking rights and own more of those rights themselves? So how do you see that evolving at a broadcast level? I think the trend will be increased rights granted to networks in stacking.
And as John mentioned we reached an agreement between ourselves to grant those rights to Turner.
And I think that as a company we believe that there isn't an impact on long-term rights related to these kinds of stacking.
And I think that therefore you're going to see on a go-forward basis a more consistent grant of rights that is broader.
Then just one quick further thing.
The other thing I just want to mention too is that I mean our goal and expectation at TNT and TBS is we're going to own more of our originals.
And when I say own more that's Turner and Warner's and Warner's being our most important studio partners.
So we are going to make whatever the right decisions are to increase the probability of success for the shows that we air on our network.
And obviously right now you can hear a unified approach that stacking is going to help the shows.
And our next question comes from David Bank of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up I guess for Kevin and Jeff on the stacking right question.
When you look at the value chain then between what you're doing with Turner in selling full stacking rights for those originals and then looking at the monetization outside of the Turner platform frankly like how much more do the Turner nets have to pay for those rights? And do they make them less valuable in the actual deals you're doing now with SVOD distributors? Like is the money more or is it less or is it the same? Look I'm going to start and let's go global here.
You're talking about an evolution of the rights and windows for shows.
And so I think the way to think about it is if the norm becomes that all television networks when you go to whatever network you want to see your show on and you know that you can watch any episode of the current season on demand and you can do it on your television stream you can do it on a broadband-delivered VOD service what we're talking about here is taking television and making it VOD universal.
Therefore it would not have an effect on really the discrete change and the price of the show.
And as Kevin said earlier the -- when you do that and you make the show easier to get attached and engaged and follow you have actually a more valuable show in subsequent seasons and on later windows.
So that's basically what's going to happen in the industry.
If you focus too much on any particular deal in the transition period of going from rolling 5 to a full season I think you'd be missing where this is going.
The net effect of the whole thing is to have TV networks become more valuable and more powerful to have the value of any hit show become more valuable and to then create basically evolution of the windows where anything in a current season you know it's on demand doesn't matter what network you're watching.
That's how we see the change in the definition of a television network.
You can watch once a day.
That works exactly like that it's called Home Box Office.
So just watch HBO.
It's been doing that for years.
You can -- Showtime now does it too.
You can see exactly how powerful that is.
It makes all the networks more valuable and it makes all the shows more valuable.
Yes.
And I think the only thing I would add is the key thing is the consistency.
But you don't have to guess whether all those shows are going to be stacked on HBO or not and I think we've got to get to a place where there's more consistency on the rights granted.
And our last question comes from Anthony DiClemente of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> A question for Richard and then maybe a follow-up for Howard.
On the Comcast-NBCUniversal calls Steve Burke said about the HBO TT product.
He said "I think it's going to challenging for HBO to go and try and attract new customers into this ecosystem without cannibalizing existing customers." I think you've been clear Richard that you don't think that will happen.
Presumably you'll be working with your traditional MVPD partners.
I guess the question is if you have enough success with your partners on Internet Plus-type offerings as you described would you revisit your decision to roll out a standalone OTT product after that sequencing? The answer to the last question is no.
Let me go to the first which is Steve.
Steve called me personally to give some context to the comment number one and I think it was somewhat overreported if you will.
Neil called subsequently and I spoke to him and I think the real point is the one that Neil made in The Wall Street Journal with namely that HBO and Comcast have been terrific partners.
He expects us to be terrific partners going forward.
I couldn't echo that more enthusiastically.
So we're going to work very closely with them on our current business.
We're going to look -- work very closely with them growing it not only in their current video business but also on the broadband-only and Internet Plus side.
And if you have any doubt that we're each -- helping each other to grow each other's business just look at the performance and look at 2015 and -- '14 and I think '15 portends even greater growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one quick one for Howard.
You mentioned you continue to track a little bit ahead of the full year earnings guidance that you had provided earlier in the year.
If I flow through the third quarter beat and then the tax benefit it does seem like the fourth quarter comes down a little bit.
You called out Howard a few of those factors programming investments at HBO comps at Warner the DISH dispute and then the advertising expectation at Turner how am I doing on those factors? And then maybe as a way you can sort of rank those in terms of their impact on the 4Q.
Your underlying assumption about us not looking as good if you take those things out is actually not correct.
When I indicated it if you exclude the restructuring and tax and the program impairment we're tracking a little bit better than our prior guidance that we gave in August.
And what was the question in terms of the ranking of ...
Research Division</strong> Well maybe another way to ask it would be specifically on Turner advertising so I think you talked about flat.
Was that where you had expected the fourth quarter Turner ad growth for example going into this part of the year? Or had you expected a growth for the fourth quarter Turner advertising? Anthony there's a lot of puts and takes.
I'm not going to go into the details of evolving individual components of that.
But we are -- but financially we continue to track well as I indicated.
Thanks Anthony and thanks everybody for joining us today.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact me or Michael Senno.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Time Warner Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
My name is Joe and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Time Warner's fourth quarter and full year earnings conference call.
This morning we issued two press releases one detailing our results for the fourth quarter and full year and the other providing our 2015 full year business outlook.
Before we begin there are two items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that is available on our website.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to Jeff Bewkes Time Warner's Chairman and CEO who will be followed by Howard Averill Time Warner's CFO.
After their prepared remarks our divisional CEOs John Martin Richard Plepler and Kevin Tsujihara will join us for a Q&amp;A session.
Jeff? Thanks Mike and thanks for listening in this morning.
2014 was another year of strong financial performance for our company with solid revenue growth and 18% growth in adjusted EPS.
That's our sixth straight year of at least high-teens adjusted EPS growth and it's consistent with our plan to reach close to $6 in adjusted EPS in 2016 and over $8 in 2018.
We also grew free cash flow by 12% to $3.5 billion and we returned more than $6.6 billion to shareholders through buybacks and dividends and as we announced this morning we anticipate another year of very good growth in adjusted EPS in 2015.
We're also committed to building on our strong record of providing direct returns to shareholders which have totaled more than $26 billion since 2008.
You can see evidence of this commitment in the 10% increase in our dividend approved by our Board.
That is also the sixth straight year we have raised the dividend by double digits.
So we expect another great year in 2015 and that is in the context of an industry where like all of you we see the pace of change accelerating.
Consumers' appetite for high-quality video content is increasing globally but we're in the midst of a secular shift to on-demand consumption.
At the same time advertisers' expectations for data analytics and targeting are also increasing.
These changes create new challenges for our industry but we think they are also creating big opportunities for the producers of the very best video content.
In fact we've spent the last several years positioning ourselves to take advantage of these trends.
In 2014 we've completed our transformation into a more focused nimble and collaborative video content company that takes better advantage of our leading brands and our global scale at Warner Bros.
Turner and HBO.
We also finished the transition to a new generation of CEOs at each of our divisions and we continued to invest even more in the very best content.
In 2014 we invested $14.5 billion in programming production and marketing.
That's up about $3 billion compared to just five years earlier and we expect that to grow to around $19 billion a year over the next several years.
That investment is going into increased original programming at HBO and Turner into high-profile sports like the NBA NCAA March madness and major league baseball; and also into the biggest film and TV franchises at Warners.
And those investments will continue to pay dividends in the years to come as the demand for high-quality on-demand video content grows.
We also continue to invest resources in improving the user experience in order to increase the value we're providing to our distribution partners and to consumers of multichannel television.
Last year we launched CNNgo the most advanced multiplatform news product on the market.
We expanded HBO GO to additional platforms including Amazon Fire PS3 and Xbox One and we started to make stacking rights available for some of our biggest hits at Turner.
At the same time we're increasingly investing outside the traditional TV ecosystem to help ensure that consumers can access our great content wherever whenever and on whatever device they choose even if they don't have a conventional multichannel TV subscription.
The most notable example is our HBO OTT service which we're on track to launch later this year.
We think there is a big opportunity for us to reach broadband-only consumers and to reduce the friction of subscribing to HBO for multichannel subs that don't currently have the service.
We look forward to sharing more details about the service closer to launch but HBO's OTT product is only one element of our digital strategy.
At Turner CNN Digital grew both average monthly video streams and mobile uniques by more than 30% in 2014.
And Turner's Bleacher Report averaged 39 million monthly unique visitors becoming the number two digital sports destination in the U.S.
We have carried that momentum into 2015.
All five of Turner's most important networks were included in Dish's Sling TV service making up more than a third of the channels at launch.
CNN and Bleacher Report were two of Snapchat's launch partners for its Discover feature.
And last month Warners announced that it will be launching an SVOD service in Southeast Asia in partnership with SingTel and Sony Pictures Television.
That is another opportunity for Warners to use new distribution platforms to grow its business in Asia where it already has a significant stake in Hollywood VIP.
That is a rapidly-growing SVOD service in China which recently expanded its content offering to include HBO programming.
You will also see us investing in our advertising business by rolling out advanced products that provide advertisers with the analytics and targeting they are coming to expect.
We started that process last year when we began selling based on consumer behavior rather than just the traditional age and gender demographics.
This year we're going to take that one step further.
For the first time we will have one joint upfront for all of our networks and we'll provide our best partners the ability to buy behavior-based inventory across all of our networks and digital platforms.
We started talking to our partners about this at CES last month and the response has been overwhelmingly positive.
Combining the reach and quality environment of TV with the analytics in targeting digital is the holy-grail for advertisers and if we do that successfully we think we can take share back from digital competitors over time.
So clearly there is a lot of change occurring in our industry but we're more confident than ever in our position.
That confidence stems from our belief that the very best video content is becoming more valuable to both consumers and to our advertising and distribution partners.
We produce more of that great content than anybody which was evident once again in 2014.
It is awards season so let's start there.
We received 13 Academy Award nominations this year including a best picture nomination for American Sniper.
In true Warner Bros.
fashion this film has been both a commercial and a critical success.
After opening in select theaters on Christmas Day it shattered records when it went wide last month including the biggest January opening ever.
Last year we also released the Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies which was the final installment of the epic trilogy by Peter Jackson.
Through last week the movie had brought in well over $900 million at the global box office and that brings the total for The Lord of the Rings franchise to close to $6 billion.
That gives Warners two of the top four global film franchises in history including the biggest ever in Harry Potter.
No one manages film franchises better than Warners and they are at the core of its film strategy going forward.
Warners has laid out the most ambitious slate in its history which starting in 2016 will be built around DC Comics LEGO and the world of Harry Potter.
And we couldn't be more excited and confident in the opportunity it has not only to drive growth at the box office but also to significantly expand its ancillary business.
None of that should overshadow Warners' continued leadership in television production.
Warners has more than 60 series airing for the 2014 to 2015 season including the most primetime series on broadcast of any studio for the 11th time in the past 12 seasons.
This season was particularly notable for Warners mining of the DC library which gave rise to two of this year's bona fide new hits Gotham and The Flash and The Flash is just one of three DC shows on the CW with their presence helping the CW to broaden its audience and grow its ratings this season.
DC is also a major driver of our games business including last year's release of LEGO Batman 3.
That will continue in 2015 with the highly anticipated release of the final installment of the Batman: Arkham trilogy.
Along with the release of Mortal Kombat X and a new mobile game based on Game of Thrones that should propel Warners' give business to a record year in 2015.
Now going back for a moment to the multiplex last week HBO concluded a limited IMAX run for two episodes of its monster hit Game of Thrones.
That is HBO's most-watched series ever.
It was the first television show to ever screen in an IMAX theater and that is a testament to the anticipation for Thrones' upcoming fifth season as well as to HBO's creative excellence.
Last year HBO received 19 Primetime Emmys including five for True Detective its most-watched freshman series ever and HBO's content superiority translated into close to 3 million additional domestic subscribers that is its highest growth in domestic subs in over three decades.
In 2015 HBO plans to raise its game again with returning hits like True Detective Veep Silicon Valley The Leftovers and Last Week Tonight with John Oliver.
As well as adding several new series like Westworld which is the second HBO drama produced by Warner Bros.
and The Brick a comedy series starring Tim Robbins and Jack Black and Ballers starring Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson.
As we start this year we also have a lot of momentum at Turner.
In 2014 TBS TNT and Adult Swim claimed three of the top 10 spots in primetime among adults 18 to 49.
TBS was the number two ad-supported cable network in prime time among adults 18 to 49 and 25 to 54.
And TNT was home to six of the top 15 original series on ad-supported cable that is more than any other network and that included three new hits in The Last Ship The Librarians and Murder in the First.
That is strong evidence that its emphasis on more distinctive original programming is starting to work.
2014 was also an important year for our sports business with Turner extending its partnership with the NBA through 2025 and kicking off its new agreement with Major League Baseball.
We dipped our toe into the water with sports internationally by obtaining the UEFA Champions League rights in Brazil which will cement the must-have status of our recently acquired sports network Esporte Interativo.
Adult Swim continued to attract the largest audiences of young adults including the top two new shows among adults 18 to 34 Attack on Titan and Black Jesus.
That is the type of programming that helped Adult Swim to be ranked as the number one ad-supported cable network in total day among adults 18 to 24 and 18 to 34 for the 10th consecutive year as well as being the number one ad-supported table network in total day among adults 18 to 49.
And the network it shares a channel with Cartoon Network is on an absolute roll.
In a year where most kids networks were down double digits Cartoon grew its audience from kids 6 to 11 and we gained momentum through the year.
In the fourth quarter Cartoon grew ratings in its key demos by solid double digits and that is a trend that has continued into the first quarter of this year.
Despite these successes we know we can do better in particular at TBS and TNT and we're confident that with new leadership in place and a focus on distinctive original programming we will do better.
The success of CNN is a great example of how the right management and the right programming strategy can drive growth even in the face of challenging industry trends.
In 2014 CNN grew its primetime rating in adults 25 to 54 while MSNBC registered double-digit declines and CNN had an average total day monthly reach of almost 77 million total viewers the largest cumulative audience of any cable news network.
CNN took share by going deeper on the biggest stores revamping key day-parts like morning and expanding its innovative lineup of original primetime series based around talent like Anthony Bourdain Morgan Spurlock Lisa Ling and Mike Rowe.
Its original programming also helped CNN draw by far the youngest median primetime audience among its cable news rivals and match its youngest on record.
CNN's strong performance has continued into 2015 with its ratings in adults 25 to 54 up 70% in January compared to double-digit declines for MSNBC.
And CNN will look to build on that success by further expanding its lineup of originals this year.
Developing a robust slate of must-have programming is a process that takes time but that is one of the things our company does best and we're confident in the team at Turner their strategy and their ability to drive increased viewership across platforms as they execute on the plans they are putting in place.
Before I turn it over to Howard I want to emphasize that we have a lot of confidence in our ability to execute on the ambitious strategy and growth plans we shared with you last October.
We're proud of our track record of industry-leading adjusted EPS growth and shareholder returns over the past five or six years.
But 2015 is really our first full year as the new Time Warner and we're just getting underway.
We're mindful of the challenges ahead of us but we've done a lot of work to get to the right structure the right management and the right strategy so that we're positioned to lead the industry and continue to deliver superior value to our shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Howard.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I will begin by referring to the first slide of our presentation which is now available on our website.
Starting with consolidated results we're pleased with how we ended the year and the progress we're making on the long term targets we discussed at our investor day.
As we look out over the next several years we continue to expect that solid revenue growth attractive margin expansion and accelerating growth in adjusted OI will on average lead to high-teens growth in adjusted EPS.
In 2014 we delivered adjusted EPS growth of 18% our sixth consecutive year of double-digit growth.
That is in line with our updated guidance and exceeded the outlook we provided at the beginning of the year.
As a reminder adjusted EPS included a net benefit of $0.10 from the tax matters and programming restructuring and severance charges that we previously discussed with you.
Including the additional restructuring and programming charges we took in the fourth quarter and net of intercompany eliminations we incurred $469 million of restructuring and severance charges and $388 million of programming charges in the second half of 2014.
We're expecting the restructuring actions to translate into run rate savings of close to $500 million most of which will come in 2015.
That will free up resources to invest even more in content and position us to accelerate our revenue growth in the coming years while also continuing to expand margins.
Those actions were consistent with our ongoing focus on expense management excluding programming restructuring and severance charges from both periods total expenses increased only 3% from the year despite our continued investments in great content.
And about 100 basis points of that growth was due to the international consolidations at HBO and Warners' acquisition of Eyeworks.
Total SG&amp;A declined slightly for the year.
We also had another strong year of cash flow which was up 12%.
Free cash flow per share was up an even more impressive 19% benefiting from our ongoing share repurchase program.
In 2014 we repurchased $5.5 billion of our shares a significant acceleration from the prior year.
Combined with $1.1 billion in dividends we returned $6.6 billion to shareholders during the year and as evidenced by the dividend increase we announced this morning we remain committed to delivering significant direct returns to shareholders going forward.
So we had another good year of financial performance in 2014 and returned a substantial amount of capital to shareholders while also making great progress in positioning the company for strong growth in the years to come.
I have one additional item to note regarding our 2014 results.
One of our equity method investments is currently undergoing an international tax audit.
If there are any material developments with this situation prior to the filing of our Form 10-K at the end of the month we may be required to update our results to reflect their final 2014 earnings.
Moving on this morning we provided our outlook for 2015.
We anticipate another year of very attractive growth with adjusted EPS of $4.60 to $4.70 a share which implies mid-teens growth when excluding the $0.10 benefit to 2014 I noted earlier.
So we expect good growth despite foreign currency swings that at current rates would result in a year-over-year drag of approximately $0.20 to $0.25 and we will do that as we continue to invest aggressively in content to position the company to accelerate revenue growth in 2016.
I will provide additional context around our outlook as we go through the presentation.
Now turning to the segment highlights.
I will begin at Turner where we ended 2014 with a record fourth quarter for revenues and adjusted operating income.
Just as important we continued to make progress in positioning Turner to accelerate growth over the next several years and beyond.
Subscription revenues increased 5% for the quarter and 7% for the year and that included an FX headwind of close to 200 basis points in the quarter and approximately 100 basis points for the year.
Without that international subscription revenue would have increased double digits for both periods due to continued positive trends in Latin America.
Domestic subscription revenue growth was in the mid-single-digits in the fourth quarter but excluding the impact from our dispute with Dish domestic subscription revenues would have increased in the high single digits similar to our growth for the full year and that reflected the positive impact of our current domestic renewal cycle.
We anticipate completing new deals with the remainder of our top 10 affiliates by the end of this year which should drive very attractive growth in our subscription revenue over the next several years.
Largely as a result of timing of those renewals and as we indicated to you in the past we will not see the same benefit from domestic renewals in 2015 that we saw in 2014.
At current rates we also expect headwinds of around 300 basis points from foreign currency movements including the move to the SICAD 2 rate in Venezuela.
Taking into account those factors we anticipate subscription revenue growth will slow materially this year before re-accelerating well into the double digits in 2016 and beyond.
Moving on advertising revenues declined 1% in 4Q similar to our expectations coming into the quarter but were up 1% for the year.
The fourth quarter included a drag of close to 500 basis points as a result of airing fewer Major League Baseball playoff games foreign currency movements and the impact from Dish.
Absent those ad revenue would've grown in the quarter.
Domestic advertising declined modestly in the quarter and that included a decline in domestic entertainment including young adults which was partly offset by healthy growth at news where we continued to benefit from positive ratings momentum and very strong trends in our digital business.
Excluding the impact of FX international advertising increased on the high single digits with growth across all regions.
Looking to 2015 current rates imply about 200 basis point drag on advertising foreign currency movements including the move to the SICAD 2 rate in Venezuela.
In the first quarter we're seeing a modest improvement in the domestic environment.
Scatter pricing is pacing up mid to high single digits over the upfront while volume remains moderate.
Putting all those factors together we anticipate total advertising revenues to be about flat.
Excluding programming and restructuring charges in both periods adjusted operating income would have grown modestly in the quarter and 5% for the year and without those same charges programming expenses increased 2% in the quarter and 7% for the year.
That reflects our ongoing investments in both sports and original programming which we expect will generate attractive returns over the next several years.
Looking through the charges I just discussed we limited total expense growth to 4% in 2014 and that was a result of keeping SG&amp;A costs flat reflecting our commitment to tightly managing our non-programming expenses in order to direct additional resources to key programming.
So in 2014 we continued to execute our plan at Turner and we feel we have laid the groundwork to expand margins and grow the business at very attractive rates over the next several years.
Turning to HBO where we had another year of solid growth in both revenues and adjusted operating income subscription revenues were up 5% in the quarter and 8% for the year.
The consolidations of HBO Asia and HBO Nordic contributed about 300 basis points to the full year growth.
As a reminder we had fully lapped both consolidations before the start of the fourth quarter.
Domestically we had steady subscription revenue growth throughout the year.
And as Jeff mentioned HBO and Cinemax together added over 2.8 million domestic subscribers in 2014 that is the best domestic sub growth in over three decades.
As we've previously discussed most of these subscriber additions are non-revenue-generating.
Still we saw some improvement in the subscriber mix in 2014 which contributed to a modest acceleration in domestic subscription revenue growth and we expect a further acceleration in that growth over the next few years.
Turning to content and other revenues which increased 14% in the quarter and 24% for the year that was boosted by a record year in home video led by sales of season three of Game of Thrones.
HBO's licensing deal with Amazon also contributed to the strong full year results.
Across HBO's international operations including unconsolidated JVs we increased revenues double digits in 2014 and that included growth in both our licensing and networks business.
International subscriber trends also remained strong growing double digits across most regions.
Sub growth was especially strong in Latin America and Europe in 2014.
Adjusted operating income declined 5% in the quarter and that was largely due to the timing of theatrical expenses and investments in original programming which drove mid-teens growth in programming expenses.
Marketing expenses were also higher in the quarter as we continued to invest in the brand.
For the full year programming costs were up in the high single digits when excluding the international consolidations.
To help fund that investment HBO remains focused on constraining non-programming expenses and excluding the international consolidations we limited SG&amp;A growth to 1% in 2014.
Despite the drop in the fourth quarter and higher restructuring charges adjusted operating income grew 7% for the year so we had another year of solid growth and we continue the subscriber momentum we have had over the past few years both domestically and internationally.
Given the strong demand for the product globally we feel very good about our ability to further accelerate growth over the next several years.
Now on to Warner Bros.
where excluding restructuring and severance charges 2014 would have been another record year for adjusted operating income.
And we achieved that thanks to continued growth in the TV business and our focus on cost containment.
2014 also benefited from a patent license and settlement agreement.
On the TV side revenues grew double digits in the fourth quarter capping off a great year.
Internationally Warners continues to benefit from the growing demand for high-quality TV content from both linear and SVOD buyers.
We're also seeing growth in local production from Eyeworks acquisition we completed earlier in 2014 and domestically Warners remains the industry leader in primetime series produced for broadcast networks for the 2014-2015 TV Season.
So the trends in TV production remain positive and we're confident we can continue to grow this business over the next several years.
Theatrically coming into the year we knew we had tough comps especially in the fourth quarter and that played out as expected with revenue declining for both the quarter and the year.
But we're off to a terrific start in 2015 with the success of American Sniper and longer-term we think we have the strongest slate in the history of the company so overall we feel really good about the outlook for our theatrical business.
Across theatrical and TV home entertainment revenue declined 12% for the year in part due to a softer slate.
That was roughly in line with the overall market which was down 7% excluding SVOD however we continued to see positive trends in digital across both theatrical and television product with electronic sell-through revenue up 40% for the year.
On the expense side consistent with our companywide focus on efficiency Warner continues to tightly manage overhead costs.
Excluding restructuring and severance charges from both periods total expenses increased less than 2% and SG&amp;A was down 4% for the year.
As we head into 2015 we will start to see the benefit from the restructuring actions taken in the fourth quarter which we expect to contribute to margin expansion over time.
So on the whole Warners had a very good year and with our slate of franchise films starting in 2016 and the strong secular demand for high-quality TV content we feel we're in a great position to grow Warners at attractive rates for the foreseeable future.
Turning to the next slide we had another year of strong free cash flow generation growing free cash flow 12% to $3.5 billion.
As can see on the slide we've broken out the programming restructuring and severance charges incurred in the second half of 2014 which had a significant impact on adjusted operating income.
Our cash taxes increased primarily due to lower foreign tax credits.
Cash interest increased as a result of the additional debt we issued during the year and the improvement in working capital was primarily due to lower participations at Warner Bros.
Looking to 2015 keep in mind that we will have approximately $300 million of severance payments related to the restructuring actions we took this past year.
In addition we expect working capital to be a more significant use of cash primarily due to the large syndication sales at Warners.
All that aside we still anticipate 2015 will be another healthy year for free cash flow generation and we expect to continue converting a very high percentage of our earning into free cash flow in the years to come.
Looking at our balance sheet we ended 2014 with $19.9 billion of net debt up $1.6 billion compared to the end of 2013 that is primarily a result of our continued commitment to direct returns to shareholders.
As I mentioned at the start of my presentation during 2014 we repurchased $5.5 billion in shares and combined with our dividend returned $6.6 billion in total to shareholders.
During the year we took advantage of favorable market conditions to strengthen our balance sheet by issuing $2 billion of long term debt at very favorable rates.
On the M&amp;A front we invested just under $1 billion in 2014.
The majority of that was directed towards our financing arrangements with CME and our acquisition of Eyeworks' international television operations.
Due to the programming restructuring and severance charges in the second half of the year our net leverage ratio was around three times at the end of 2014.
However explain those charges our net leverage ratio would have been 2.7 times slightly below our target level.
One item to keep in mind in terms of our use of capital during the next few years will be the cash payments related to our real estate project at Hudson Yards.
The majority of these payments will be recognized in investing activities including a few hundred million dollars in 2015.
On balance I'm pleased with how we executed on our capital plan in 2014.
And as we look ahead neither our philosophy nor our processes around capital allocation have changed so you can expect us to remain very disciplined and balanced in our approach to capital allocation.
We remain committed to maintaining our solid investment grade credit ratings and are comfortable with our net leverage target of 2.75 times.
We continue to believe that target provides us the flexibly to invest in our businesses engage in strategic M&amp;A and provide direct returns to shareholders while at the same time optimizing our cost of capital and providing strong access to the capital markets in a variety of macroeconomic scenarios.
With that let's move on to the final slide which looks at our outlook for 2015.
In 2015 we expect to deliver really attractive growth in adjusted operating income and another year of solid double-digit adjusted EPS growth and we expect that will be as a result of strong growth across all of our divisions.
Before getting into the details please note that my comments will be based on 2014 results excluding the programming restructuring and severance charges taken in the second half of the year.
At Turner we will benefit from around $200 million in savings from the restructuring efforts and more modest programming expense growth as our NASCAR deal ended in 2014.
Those factors should translate into healthy margin expansion.
While we continue to see positive underlying trends internationally the strong dollar and the exchange rate change in Venezuela will provide headwinds.
Nonetheless we anticipate a return to very healthy adjusted operating income growth which is evidence of our continued ability to manage our cost structure to drive attractive growth even in years with more modest top-line trends.
At HBO we continue to see strong demand for our services globally and that should result in continued solid subscription revenue growth.
And along with disciplined expense management we anticipate that we will drive a significant acceleration in adjusted operating income growth in 2015.
As we've previously discussed we plan to launch an over-the-top service domestically this year and will provide more color on those plans as we get closer to launching.
At Warner Bros.
we anticipate revenue growth to be led by our TV syndication slate which includes 2 Broke Girls and Person of Interest.
We also have a robust slate of video games anchored by key franchise releases Batman: Arkham and Mortal Kombat so we expect strong revenue growth combined with cost savings from the restructurings to translate into very attractive adjusted operating income growth and another record year at Warners.
Looking across all three segments we're set up for a very good year from an operating perspective and that is despite an expected drag on adjusted operating income of approximately $250 million to $300 million as a result of the strengthening U.S.
dollar and the exchange rate change in Venezuela.
That impact will primarily show up at Turner and Warner Bros.
and equates to approximately $0.20 to $0.25 at the adjusted EPS level which we have factored into our outlook.
It is also worth noting that intercompany eliminations will be a material drag this year due to increased content sales from Warner Bros.
to HBO and Turner including the syndication sale of 2 Broke Girls.
In addition we started to recognize 100% of CME's losses in our equity income in the fourth quarter as a result of our accumulated net losses exceeding the book value of our common stock investments.
For context in 2014 this change would have resulted in an additional $0.05 negative impact to adjusted EPS.
In terms of cadence we expect 2015 adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS to be heavily weighted towards the second half of the year given the timing of both syndication availabilities and this year's theatrical slate at Warner Bros.
Putting all that together we expect another very good year in 2015 which is reflected in our outlook for adjusted EPS of $4.60 to $4.70 or mid-teens growth when excluding the second-half restructuring and programming charges and tax matters we noted earlier and that is despite the negative impact of foreign exchange that I just noted.
At the same time our continued investments in high-quality video content and our industry-leading brands will position us for accelerating revenue growth in 2016.
So we continue to expect high-teens adjusted EPS growth on average through 2018 and remain on track to hit the financial targets we shared with you at our investor day in October.
With that I'll turn it back to Mike to start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Howard.
Joe can you open up the line for questions please? [Operator Instructions].
And our first question here comes from Doug Mitchelson from UBS.
Please go ahead sir.
One for Howard or John one for Jeff.
There has been a lot of focus on affiliate revenue growth for Turner Networks.
I was hoping first that Howard or John you would help us know whether Turner domestic affiliate revenue is on track towards your initial budgets for pricing and subscriber levels or if those budgets have been shifting around as you saw 4Q results.
And are you able to be more specific regarding the year-over-year domestic drivers for 4Q the Dish impact and subscriber changes versus core pricing? And for Jeff you expressed a lot of confidence in achieving 2016 EPS guidance but I think some investors are still uncertain with all the cross-currents right now for affiliate revenue.
You've got Sling TV and cord cutting cord shaving; the Dish outage in October.
I'm just curious how many of the top 10 renewals are left to be completed and what drives your confidence in hitting your 2016 and beyond affiliate revenue goals? Thanks very much.
It's Jeff I'll start.
Let me just begin by saying I am and we're all still confident in our '16 and '18 targets and let me go into some of the reasons and then John and Howard will pick up from there.
We did see some sub declines last year in the basic cable universe and we have planned for modest declines to continue.
And I think as everyone knows ad growth has been very muted but we still see very strong consumer demand for multichannel TV and increasing viewing across all the platforms.
And we think that TV and video remains the best platform for reaching a mass audience for advertisers.
We also see that multichannel revenues are all still growing at a healthy clip so we think there is pretty good opportunity for continued growth.
We're working closely with all our distributors to improve the consumer value proposition that means more and more vibrant VOD offerings from all the networks.
It means providing stacking rights for original series; that would be another example where I think HBO has all its series up pretty much.
Turner has all of its series up.
And we think more SVOD -- more VOD and more and better user interfaces are going to make a difference in all of the retention basically of multichannel TV.
We're also moving aggressively to provide advertisers with the analytics and targeting that they are coming to expect.
And we think that as we do that more successfully we're going to take back share from digital competitors over time.
Beyond the traditional ecosystem we think there's a lot of opportunity for companies like ours that specialize in high-quality content not just in the U.S.
but also globally.
But if you just go back to the United States Sling TV is one example of increased value and opportunity from networks like ours.
HBO over-the-top is another example.
So on the whole we think the value of that content and of our networks is growing and we think some of the changes that all of us are beginning to see in having more flexible consumer offerings are going to support the value of the best networks and the strongest brands.
That’s basically why we see ourselves on track for our targets in '16 and '18.
And John and Howard I think you have a few things to add.
Just a few additional comments with regard to the rhythm of our affiliate contracts we've got seven of the Top 10 affiliates closed and we anticipate closure of remaining deals this year.
As we reported in the past everything is going exactly in accordance with plan.
We're achieving the rate increases and the terms that we have been seeking.
And this year in the multiyear overall cycle we fully anticipated and we have communicated before that there will be somewhat of a moderation in subscriber revenue growth but then it's going to pick back up beyond 2015.
I think it's important though when you look at the longer-term trends of multichannel in the U.S.
to understand that the evidence that we see clearly indicates that the main reason why people are leaving the multichannel universe let's call them cord cutters is because they either can't afford it or they don't think there's enough value in the offerings that are currently being provided to them by the MVPDs.
We also believe that a portion of that community would like to sign back up for multichannel TV if the offerings were comprised of more affordable and greater flexibility.
I think Sling as Jeff said is a great example but I think it's important to understand that it is the first example.
A lot of the economy packs that the MVPDs are currently offering are based more on whether the contracts allow for them and they are based more on cost and they're offered as retention tools as opposed to proactive marketing opportunities.
I think that is going to change over time.
We've been saying for a long time that there's too many channels in existence today.
The approach that Time Warner and Turner have taken over the years of investing heavily in a core group of channels we think is going to really pay handsome dividends in the future as we have two of the top five three of the top 10 networks and 85% of our affiliate fees are comprised in the Top 4 and we're pleased to be in the Sling initial offering.
So we're quite optimistic about how things are going to continue to evolve over time and we're quite optimistic about the hand that we have in terms of the value of the networks.
Doug just a quick point in terms of the drivers in the fourth quarter the biggest impact was the result of FX and that was followed by the impact of the Dish dispute and then finally there was a smaller impact from subscriber declines that includes sub losses the move to smaller bundles a redefinition of bulk accounts.
So it's a handful of smaller impacts that make up the sub declines.
Our next question here comes from Mr.
John Janedis from Jefferies.
Please go ahead sir.
Maybe a slight follow-up can you give us an update on the Dish negotiation? I guess with the launch of Sling including your networks is the read-through that you’re confident that something gets done in the near-term? And is the issue more on pricing or rights? And then Howard based on your response to Doug's question is Dish one of those three that are still outstanding? Thanks.
I will start and then the chorus will go.
We're having very good conversations and we have a good business going with Dish that is why we all came -- Charlie's management and ours to I think a happy agreement on the Sling product.
And we feel very good about our overall business together whether it is at Turner or HBO.
Beyond that I don't have more to add.
John do you have more? John I was just going to point out that Dish is one of the deals that we have not completed at this point.
Our next question comes from Mr.
David Bank from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
So it looks like Kevin Riley now has basically his team in place and I think we could assume that the new content cycle has begun.
So could you I guess first articulate is there a different vision that that team has in terms of genre or programming? Is it basic continuation of sort of the BOOM! [ph] brand and the Turner Comedy brand? When do we expect to see the impact of Kevin's team and his process on ratings for the schedule and ultimately on advertising? Then also how close is he working with Peter Roth for a holistic Turner Warner product as well as Kevin for broader monetization outside of the first window? If you could talk about the holistic approach Warners has to the Turner properties there for content creation and distribution.
It's John I will start.
Look Kevin is here.
He has hit the ground running.
He has brought great new perspective a lot of energy a lot of enthusiasm.
He has officially been here for just over a month and he is already announced a new organization and a new structure and he is bringing in some fresh talent.
And he is working terrifically with David Levy and together working towards the upfront on the existing development slate and working on sharpening the brand positioning reach of TNT and TBS as we move into the future.
I want to just caution that we got to give Kevin some time because he hasn't been here for very long but I couldn't be more pleased with the talent and the direction that our big networks are going to be going in and we're starting to build off of an increasing position of success.
As we said before TNT we're going to look to go a little bit younger more dual and sharpen the TBS brand promise.
But if you think about in the fourth quarter we premiered The Librarians which is the highest premiere on all ad-supported basic cable.
It beat out Last Ship which was number two.
We had six of the top 15 original dramas as Jeff said.
And on the original program side on TBS we've got six new shows three returning and 2 Broke Girls coming on from Warners.
So I would love for Kevin to give some perspective on how Kevin and the team are working with Warners.
We're really excited about two big dramas coming out of Warners that are going to be moving on to TNT soon and just from my perspective at Turner I think the relationship has never been better and Warners is our most important partner.
Peter Roth and Kevin Riley have a long history together at both FX and Fox and they've really hit the ground running.
They can talk in shorthand; they have a great relationship.
As John said we have two big dramas that we feel really good about and we have a number of other projects in the hopper and so we feel great about where we're at with Turner as well as HBO.
I think things from a Warner Bros.' production perspective and getting access to our roster of talent and being able to work as we're currently with Turner and HBO is a huge opportunity.
It's Richard.
I would just add that this is the first time in history that Warner Bros.
and HBO are doing business together in television production.
Huge success with Leftovers doing over 7 million viewers in production on Westworld with Jonathan Nolan and tremendously talented cast and I think it just speaks to what we talked about on investor day which is working together across divisions to maximize our capacity.
Our next here comes from Ms.
Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
I've a question on HBO.
It's been several quarters now since you had the deal with Amazon which obviously has the obvious benefit of giving you the revenue stream that you've been able to reinvest in programming.
But beyond that benefit I guess can you talk about how you think it has maybe changed audience habits and sense? Are you seeing more -- do you think it's driving consumers to HBO traditional HBO in terms of getting them hooked on shows or attracted to that kind of programming? Couple of things first of all the performance on Prime and everything we have heard from our friends in Amazon has exceeded even their expectations in terms of usage and customer satisfaction.
We said at the beginning that in addition to helping us monetize some of our library -- remember it's windowed at three years we thought it was a wonderful opportunity to have some of the 70 million non-HBO homes have a chance to sample some of our best programming.
We think that only has the catalytic effect of driving people back to the network.
Listen we had the biggest sub growth last year any time in 30 years and I think there is a lot of factors that contributed to that but Amazon I think might have been one of them because people have an opportunity to see what they previously haven't seen.
So it has been a tremendously positive relationship for us which we expect to continue.
And then just a quick thought if I can on your commentary earlier about Turner subs.
I think you mentioned it was a small cause I guess of the weakness in the subs in the quarter.
And you said you had mentioned that you are expecting further sort of modest declines in subs in 2015.
I guess are you looking for that decline to accelerate or is it kind of the same sort of level? We're expecting to see the same sort of levels that we saw over the past year or so.
But if I could add you may see as time goes on some important increases coming out of more better targeted bundles smaller bundles with powerful networks that are more intentional by the distributors rather than just retention save packages that they have now where they are essentially using low-cost networks to do retentions.
So we would not necessarily sign up to a long term decline on that.
Our next question comes from Jessica Reif Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
I have two questions; the first is a follow-up to Jeff's comments on the expanded -- on behavioral-based advertising.
Could you just talk a little bit about how you will sell this? Is this addressable advertising? And can you do it on your own or do you need the industry to participate? Listen we will be talking a lot more about this at the upfront and we have released this in a press release some time ago that we've got an arrangement with a third party who is going to help us with our mix of programming connecting with advertisers and providing us with certain behavioral targeting capabilities that we previously didn't have.
And we really look forward to the upfront because I think you are going to see a much more unified Turner and much more focus on targeting and delivering audiences to advertisers not just key demos.
Just to repeat what Jeff said because I think this is really really important the holy-grail for us as advertising-supported cable network companies is to sync together the targeting capabilities which is the big selling point of digital right now link that together with the reach and the fantastic immersive environment of full-scale long-form video.
And so we think that -- and that's just going to continue.
We're going to invest.
We're going to build internal capabilities and we're going to use the best products on the market to continue to get better at delivering ROI to our marketers.
Okay.
We could go on forever on that one but then just to switch gears; on HBO I know you said multiple times on this call that you will have an OTT offer later in the year.
Can you just give some color on pricing and positioning? How do you not cannibalize your existing subs? There is a huge universe that doesn't get right now whether they are pay-TV subs or non-pay-TV subs.
So can you just talk about how you are thinking about approaching it? Jessica it's Richard.
Look we're going to price it in a way that obviously maximizes the value on all platforms.
Quite obviously it is a premium product and it will be priced accordingly.
But the other point I would make as we talk to our distributors is there is a real opportunity out there in the low-hanging fruit of the 10-or-so-million broadband only homes and we're very excited about working together with them to leverage that opportunity.
Our meetings have gone very well in that regard and I think it's a tremendous advantage for them and us to use HBO to drive broadband and to drive some of the low packaging.
Joe I think we have time for one more question please.
Our next question here comes from Rich Greenfield from BTIG.
Please go ahead.
Kind of a conceptual question your Netflix has come out and said they are spending $3 billion to $4 billion on content and I think Jeff Bezos announced as part of Amazon earnings that they are going to spend $1.3 billion on content.
So we're clearly seeing that big tech companies are investing heavily in content.
Time Warner made the decision to scale back its tech investment and outsource technology to Major League Baseball.
I just wanted you to go through the puts and takes of outsourcing technology versus having your own internal tech stack.
Particularly I think it sounds like you are going to use HBO as kind of the leading force to build a direct-to-consumer business for your other brands and just how that all evolves.
Rich it's Richard let me start.
First of all I would dissent slightly that we're pulling back from our investments.
We're not -- we're continuing to invest in technology.
MLB is an investment in technology.
We just happen to think that working with a partner that already has a platform built makes the most sense and we're very comfortable we're on track for our launch.
I can't say more about the date other than that we have a date and we feel very comfortable with our schedule.
The thing I would add about content is look it's true that there is a plethora of competition out there.
It's also true that more is not better only better is better.
And I like our hand a lot as I've said to you before given the range of talent that comes to our door I think on a forward [ph] first call basis.
So as we've said this isn't a zero-sum game other people are going to do good work but we're going to have a first look at most everything that we want to make an investment in in terms of content.
And I would add as Richard said earlier when we can go to our talent base and be able to demonstrate through Leftovers and Westworld that we're taking the best projects and projects over to HBO it helps us as well because they are going to get access to the best talent that we have on a daily basis.
Rich it's Jeff.
I can't resist adding those were nice numbers you gave on some of our new brothers and sisters in the content business.
But as we mentioned in our call I don't of it me or Howard we have been ramping up our content spending dramatically over the last five or six years and we're continuing to do that.
We're spending $15 billion a year on production marketing etc.
It's going up to $19 billion in the horizon that we've been giving plans for.
So there is global support in terms of viewers and attachment to video content.
These check changes whether they are being provided as platforms by other companies or which part of it we decide to provide are simply making the content more powerful and bringing in more viewers and giving us more ways to monetize.
If I could just follow-up -- that's a great answer.
I'm just curious is there any way to think about total companywide spending on technology? We don't have that number sitting right here because it's hard to do the borders on that.
There is so much technology Rich involved in our ongoing operations.
Just take CNN with its tens of feeds all over the world all digital.
We've got HBO GO.
I think it's artificial to take a border on certain broadband-delivered tech products and not consider the very adjacent and very intertwined technology that is required in digital transmission backhauls all of our feeds across the planet.
We have hundreds of them so that's why we don't segregate.
Thanks Rich.
Thanks everybody for joining us today.
If you have any follow-up questions we're always around.
We appreciate your time.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the Time Warner Incorporated Q1 2015 earnings call.
My name is Joe and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode and later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks and good morning.
Welcome to Time Warner's first quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued two press releases one detailing our results for the first quarter and the other reaffirming our 2015 full-year business outlook.
Before we begin there are two items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that is available on our website.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I'll now turn the call over to Jeff Bewkes Time Warner's Chairman and CEO who will be followed by Howard Averill Time Warner's CFO.
After their prepared remarks our divisional CEOs John Martin Richard Plepler and Kevin Tsujihara will join us for a Q&amp;A session.
Jeff? Thanks Mike and thank you for listening in this morning.
We came into 2015 with a lot of momentum and delivered a standout first quarter both financially and strategically underscoring the vibrancy of our business.
We grew revenue 5% and adjusted operating income 12% led by a 26% increase at Turner.
And that fueled 23% growth in adjusted earnings per share.
We also returned $1.2 billion to our shareholders during the quarter in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
We accomplished all this at a time when we were aggressively pursuing new initiatives designed to adapt the company to the rapid changes that are occurring in the industry and to capitalize on the growing demand that we see for high-quality video content all over the world.
When we laid out our long-term goals last October you'll recall that we presented a plan for sustained success that revolved around increasing our investments in distinctive engaging content.
We detailed our plans to monetize that content both within and beyond the traditional TV and film ecosystems.
And we talked about our unrelenting commitment to financial discipline which is what enables us to fund even more investment in great content while also delivering strong financial results and returning capital to shareholders.
We made progress on all those objectives this quarter.
So this morning I want to spend a few minutes going through some operational highlights which illustrate how we're continuing to evolve our businesses and execute our plan.
I'll start inside the ecosystem where our businesses are incredibly healthy.
In the first quarter Turner generated the highest quarterly profit in its history.
That performance was a reflection of the operating momentum Turner has across its portfolio.
And it demonstrates the value we bring and derive from our partnerships with distributors around the world.
Nowhere was our momentum more evident than in sports where we continue to show the power of premium programming.
This year's NCAA Men's Tournament delivered its highest average viewership in 22 years.
That included a Kentucky-Wisconsin national semifinal which was the most watched basketball game ever on cable TV as well as the most watched program in Turner's history.
That performance was matched by tremendous advertiser demand generating double-digit ad growth for the tournament on our networks.
The strong performance of the NCAA helped TBS finish as the number one ad-supported U.S.
cable network among adults 18 to 49 in primetime in the first quarter.
And if last year is any indication the NBA Playoffs will help TNT land in a similar position this quarter.
Beyond sports we're also continuing to invest in the best original programming.
TNT had three of the top 10 cable originals in the first quarter.
That's Major Crimes The Librarians and Rizzoli &amp; Isles.
But the evolution of programming on TBS and TNT is just getting going.
Over the remainder of the year we have eight new original series set to join an already strong lineup of original programming on those networks.
We're particularly excited about the launch of Proof and upcoming seasons of The Last Ship Murder in the First and Falling Skies on TNT and the debut of Angie Tribeca on TBS.
So we're pleased with the progress there and we're looking forward to sharing more at our upfront presentation in a couple of weeks.
At Adult Swim we also continue to lead the way with millennial audiences.
In the first quarter it was the number one ad-supported cable network in adults 18 to 34 for the 28th consecutive quarter.
That's an incredible run.
In younger kids Cartoon Network continued to take share by focusing on global franchises and improving our domestic scheduling.
In the first quarter Cartoon aired nine of the top 10 cable telecasts with boys 6 to 11 and it grew its audience 22% with kids 6 to 11.
The strength of its programming has been evident in video-on-demand too.
Cartoon ranked number one in the kids category on VOD in the quarter and it was the number one cable network overall on VOD in January.
Meanwhile CNN the global news leader followed a very strong 2014 by growing its total day 25 to 54 audience 20% year over year in the quarter.
HLN also had strong growth in its key demo while their two principal competitors both saw declines.
One driver of CNN's growth has been the continued strength of its originals including the successful launches of Finding Jesus and The Wonder List.
So as I said we believe we're bringing a lot of value to distributors and audiences and that was clear in Turner's recently concluded renewal with DISH.
The deal was entirely consistent with the business goals we've shared with you and it means that we've now successfully completed renewals with eight of Turner's top 10 distributors during this renewal cycle.
HBO and DISH also concluded a new affiliate agreement underscoring both HBO's commitment to its traditional distributors and the value it provides for them.
And on the heels of a very strong 2014 HBO continued to grow its subscriber base in the first quarter.
Its subscriber momentum is a reflection of the powerful combination of the biggest and most recent Hollywood hits with the very best collection of groundbreaking original content.
This year HBO's programming is once again standing out from the crowd including headline-making documentaries like Going Clear and The Jinx.
Earlier this month Game of Thrones returned for its fifth season with its season premiere growing over last season when it became HBO's most watched original series ever.
We're also off to a strong start for the new seasons of Veep Last Week Tonight with John Oliver and Silicon Valley.
And we will follow those up with second seasons of True Detective and The Leftovers with new shows like Ballers and The Brink and with an expansion of our relationship with Vice.
And as good as the current lineup is we're just as excited about the pipeline with shows like Westworld from J.J.
Abrams; Divorce which will star Sarah Jessica Parker; and a rock and roll drama from Martin Scorsese all coming to HBO in the near future.
Warner Bros.
Television continues to match the success of our networks with an industry-leading lineup of programs across broadcast and cable including the number one comedy and the number one unscripted series among adults 18 to 49 this season.
Warner's content has also been key to Cartoon Network's success with DC property Teen Titans Go! ranking as the number one show among boys 6 to 11 in the quarter.
And we're set for another very strong showing in this year's upfront where we expect DC to once again be a driving force for WB TV.
We also continue to see growth outside of the U.S.
with record international TV distribution revenue in the first quarter.
We've had similar success theatrically where Warner's was number one at the domestic box office in the quarter.
Its performance was led by American Sniper which opened to wide release and great acclaim in January and to date has brought in well over $0.5 billion at the global box office.
In just two weeks we're releasing another potential global hit Mad Max: Fury Road.
And in the coming years we think we have the strongest lineup of franchise films in the studio's history.
Against that backdrop of momentum within the traditional ecosystem let me talk for a moment about the progress we're making beyond that ecosystem.
We see significant opportunities to further monetize our great content and to grow our leading brands through new broadband delivered video services for intended online destinations and franchise extensions like video games.
And those opportunities are increasingly global in nature.
Last month we broke new ground with the debut of HBO NOW.
That's our standalone broadband delivered version of HBO.
We started with Apple as our exclusive digital launch partner and Cablevision as our first traditional distribution partner.
And you'll hear about even more ways to get HBO soon.
The initial response has been very positive both in terms of subscribers and usage.
And we're confident that with this launch we're laying the groundwork for HBO's next leg of growth both domestically and around the world.
That's just one example of how we're taking advantage of broadband distribution to extend the reach and increase the value of our content and our networks.
In the first quarter Warner started the rollout of an SVOD service in Southeast Asia in partnership with Singtel and Sony Pictures called HOOQ.
HOOQ launched the service in the Philippines in March and plans to expand to India Thailand and Indonesia soon.
And Hollywood VIP Warner's SVOD partnership with China's Tencent continues to perform strongly with growth accelerating in the most recent quarter.
Domestically Turner and HBO have agreed to include their networks in the new multi-channel offering from Sling and Turner is now distributing its networks through Sony Vue.
Turner's syndication deal with Hulu further underscores the demand for our networks and their content across distribution platforms.
New distribution platforms are also demonstrating the enduring value of Warner's vast library.
Just this quarter Warner's licensed Friends to SVOD.
That's more than a decade after it went off the air.
These new platforms and the growth in connected devices are creating additional ways for us to engage with consumers and CNN is taking full advantage.
CNN Digital reached more than 66 million multi-platform users in the U.S.
during the first quarter and it was the number one news provider in mobile page views.
CNN's strength across all platforms was underscored by the range of new digital distribution partnerships we announced in the first quarter including SnapChat Roku the Apple Watch and Apple TV.
We're also building a global digital sports business around Bleacher Report and we couldn't be more pleased with its performance.
Last year Bleacher Report passed Yahoo! to become the number two sports destination.
That's a position it maintained in the first quarter helping it to post double-digit revenue growth over last year.
We saw similarly Live strong revenue growth on March Madness Live another key digital sports asset.
March Madness Live was a huge success this year serving 81 million live video streams and growing consumption by almost 20%.
It's a great example of how the traditional and new digital ecosystems can successfully coexist and is just one of the success stories our brands have recently had in the app environment.
You've heard me say many times that Warner's is the global leader in television and film production but we're also building momentum in our games business.
We ended the first quarter with double-digit market share in the U.S.
our highest share ever.
And our recent release of Mortal Kombat X generated more than $130 million in consumer sales in its first week of release.
Our next major release will be the conclusion of our Batman Arkham trilogy Arkham Knight which is going to hit stores later this quarter.
And this fall we'll be extending our LEGO games franchise into the toys-to-life category with the release of LEGO Dimensions.
Dimensions will blend iconic franchises with physical LEGOs and interactive console play.
LEGO and DC are key drivers of our theatrical and television businesses going forward and games are a natural extension and growth opportunity that we're very excited about.
So you can see this is a very active very exciting time at Time Warner.
We're reinforcing and benefiting from our investments in the health of the traditional film and TV ecosystems while aggressively pursuing the many growth opportunities we see beyond them.
And we're more confident than ever that the investments we're making in great content will help drive growth for many years to come.
Thanks now let me turn it over to Howard.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide of our presentation which is now available on our website.
Starting with consolidated results we're off to a great start to the year with revenue growth of 5% adjusted operating income up a very strong 12% to a quarterly record of $1.8 billion and adjusted EPS up 23%.
We're especially pleased with our results in light of significant foreign exchange headwinds which were a drag of about $130 million on adjusted operating income and $0.14 on adjusted EPS in the quarter.
Adjusted operating income margins expanded more than 150 basis points largely as a result of the cost savings initiatives we undertook last year.
Reflecting that SG&amp;A was down 7% in the quarter.
At the same time we increased investments both in content and marketing including to support the launch of HBO NOW.
Moving down the income statement we continued to turn growth in adjusted operating income into even faster growth in adjusted EPS and that was due to our ongoing share repurchase program and a lower effective tax rate in the quarter which helped offset higher equity income losses.
As a reminder our earnings now reflect 100% of CME's [Central European Media Enterprises] results through equity income.
During the first quarter we repurchased about $900 million in shares.
And combined with our dividend we returned almost $1.2 billion to shareholders.
So we're executing really well across our businesses.
And this morning we reaffirmed our guidance for 2015 adjusted EPS to be in the range of $4.60 to $4.70.
That implies mid-teens growth in adjusted EPS when excluding the 2014 programming and restructuring charges and tax matters and that's despite a material drag from the stronger dollar.
So we feel really good about the underlying trends in our businesses and that gives us great confidence in our long-term growth prospects.
Now turning to the segment highlights I'll begin at Turner where the growing operating momentum across its business was reflected in a terrific first quarter.
Five percent revenue growth and significant margin expansion translated into 26% growth in adjusted operating income and a record quarter.
Turner's momentum was evident in the improvement in advertising which grew 4% in the quarter.
That was ahead of our expectations due to the strength of the NCAA Tournament and healthy growth at our domestic news business.
And that was despite a drag of over 150 basis points from foreign exchange.
Domestic growth was in the mid-single digits and that included low single-digit growth at Domestic Entertainment including young adults and very healthy double-digit growth at News where we continued to benefit from positive ratings momentum and digital growth.
Excluding foreign exchange and the benefit from the consolidation of Esporte Interativo our sports network in Brazil international advertising was up high single digits with growth across all regions.
Looking ahead the domestic advertising market is relatively unchanged with scatter pricing up high single digits for our entertainment networks.
In the second quarter we expect a drag of close to 300 basis points from the combination of increasing foreign exchange headwinds and the absence of NASCAR programming.
Taking that into consideration we expect total advertising revenue to be flat to up low single digits.
Moving on subscription revenue increased 3% in the quarter including a drag of over 250 basis points from foreign exchange.
Domestic subscription revenue grew 4% as pricing increases were offset by modest sub losses.
We were really pleased with our recent renewal with a major affiliate but keep in mind that the structure of our various contracts are such that we expect to see the benefit from improved pricing related to that deal beginning in 2016.
Excluding foreign exchange international was up double digits primarily due to strong growth in Latin America where we continue to see healthy trends.
Looking to the second quarter we expect domestic subscription revenue growth to remain in the same range as the first quarter.
Based on current rates we anticipate an impact of around 350 basis points from foreign exchange on total subscription revenue due to the continued strengthening of the dollar.
As a result we anticipate subscription revenue growth to modestly decelerate sequentially.
However we remain on track for domestic subscription revenue growth to reaccelerate well into the double digits in 2016 and 2017.
Content revenue also grew nicely and that was due both to the timing of SVOD availabilities and a small contribution from our new Hulu deal.
Turning to margins we were able to drive a 700 basis point year-over-year improvement in the quarter partially as a result of the cost savings initiatives I noted earlier.
Programming expenses were down 3% and that was largely due to the timing of original programming as well as lower acquired programming costs related to our decision to abandon certain programming in the second half of last year.
That more than offset increases in sports costs.
As we discussed with you previously we plan to reinvest savings from the programming charges into new content that better fits our current vision for TNT and TBS but it will take some time to execute that.
Taking that into account as well as the absence of NASCAR we expect programming expense growth to be weighted to the back half of the year.
Total expenses declined 7% in the quarter due to lower SG&amp;A and the decline in programming costs that I just discussed.
SG&amp;A was down 17% in the quarter and that was due both to savings from the restructuring actions we took last year as well as lower marketing costs resulting from the timing of original programming.
Putting it all together Turner had a great start to the year and is making real progress on its long-term strategic objectives and we expect very strong growth in adjusted operating income in 2015.
Turning now to HBO where subscriber trends continued to be very positive following a record year for domestic sub gains subscription revenue increased 4% which included a slight drag from the transfer of HBO's basic cable service in India to Turner in January due to regulatory changes.
Content and other revenues were up 5% in the quarter and that underscored the continued demand for our content both in Home Entertainment and international licensing.
Across HBO's international operations including unconsolidated JVs revenues and adjusted operating income were flat.
That was primarily due to a decline in LatAm related to the timing of certain programming expenses and foreign exchange.
Overall we still expect another year of growth at HBO's international networks and that's a reflection of continued positive momentum in subscriber trends especially in LatAm and the Nordics.
Adjusted operating income was down 1% in the quarter mainly due to a 9% increase in programming expenses.
And that was a result of mid-teens growth in original programming including new series like Togetherness and documentaries Citizenfour The Jinx and Going Clear as well as an increase in theatrical availabilities.
Marketing costs also increased to support the launch of HBO NOW.
Excluding marketing costs SG&amp;A was down 3% and that's a reflection of our company-wide focus on efficiencies and the restructuring actions taken in the second half of last year.
Overall HBO is off to a solid start to the year.
The strength of the brand and demand for its content is evidenced by continued growth in its subscriber base and the positive reaction to HBO NOW.
And we expect subscriber growth and revenue to benefit modestly over the remainder of the year from the launch of HBO NOW.
At the same time we will incur additional technology and marketing expenses to support its launch which will limit the near-term benefit to adjusted operating income.
And to the extent that performance exceeds our expectations this year we will likely make additional investments in the product to position HBO NOW for success over the long term.
Taking all that into account HBO is making great progress on executing its plan and is on track for a significant acceleration in adjusted operating income growth this year.
Moving on to Warner Bros.
we're off to a good start.
And excluding the impact of foreign exchange adjusted operating income would have increased in the quarter.
Revenues increased 4% with growth across each of Warner's businesses.
Theatrical revenue benefited from the success of American Sniper.
We also saw strong growth in the TV window for films both domestically and internationally highlighting continued robust demand for our theatrical products.
Likewise our TV business continued to benefit from strong global demand as evidenced by higher licensing revenue including the SVOD sale of Friends.
The increase in revenues was more than offset by higher associated film costs and increased P&amp;A due to the mix of films released in the quarter.
Foreign exchange was also a significant headwind.
As a result adjusted operating income declined 13%.
Across theatrical and TV Home Entertainment revenue was down 4% due to lower carryover revenues and declines in catalog.
However EST [Electronic Sell-Through] revenue growth remained very healthy up over 30% in the quarter.
The broader home entertainment industry was approximately in line with our results.
That's a modest improvement from the trends we saw in the second half of last year.
And growth in EST also remains encouraging up very solidly in the double-digits.
Overall Warner Bros.
had a good quarter and is on track to deliver very attractive growth in adjusted operating income in 2015 led by strong TV syndication revenue as well as a robust video game slate and savings from its 2014 restructuring actions.
Turning to the next slide free cash flow totaled just over $1 billion.
That's down from a year ago due to a significant swing in working capital but is still very healthy conversion.
The decline in working capital reflects higher content investments across the divisions the timing of collections and higher participation payments at Warner Bros.
due to the mix of titles.
Cash interest increased modestly as a result of the additional debt we issued in 2014.
And our cash taxes increased primarily due to audit settlements in the quarter.
Looking ahead we expect working capital to be a more significant use of cash for the full year than it was in 2014 and that's primarily due to the large syndication sales at Warner's and severance payments related to the restructuring actions taken in 2014.
Despite that we anticipate 2015 will be another healthy year for free cash flow generation.
Now looking at our balance sheet we ended the first quarter with just over $20 billion of net debt up about $330 million compared to the end of 2014.
That's primarily the result of our ongoing commitment to direct returns to shareholders.
As I mentioned earlier we repurchased $890 million in shares and combined with our dividend returned almost $1.2 billion to shareholders in the first quarter.
Our leverage ratio at the end of the quarter was three times.
However excluding the programming restructuring and severance charges from the second half of 2014 our leverage ratio would have been 2.65 times similar to the end of 2014 and slightly below our target leverage of 2.75 times.
Looking forward we remain committed to our balanced approach to capital allocation and expect to move closer to our leverage target over the remainder of the year.
With that let's move on to the final slide which looks at our outlook for 2015.
We got off to a great start in the first quarter with growing operating momentum across a wide swath of our businesses.
That momentum gives us a lot of confidence in our outlook for the year.
Even more importantly we did that while continuing to lay the groundwork for accelerating growth in the years to come.
And this morning we reaffirmed our 2015 outlook for adjusted EPS which we anticipate will be in the range of $4.60 to $4.70.
We're still confident in that outlook despite FX headwinds which we now estimate are even more significant than we discussed with you previously.
As the year has progressed we have fully incorporated the remeasurement of our balance sheet the FX drag on our equity method investees strong growth at our international businesses and further strengthening of the dollar.
And based on today's rates we now estimate approximately a $0.40 cent drag on adjusted EPS from FX in 2015.
Looking more closely at the second quarter we expect Warner's adjusted operating income to be down due to the timing of both TV availabilities of our theatrical product as well as theatrical releases and associated P&amp;A spend.
We'll also have incremental spend at HBO to support the launch of HBO NOW.
As a reminder last year's second quarter benefited from HBO's licensing arrangement with Amazon.
We're currently in discussions with Amazon about the size and scope of our relationship.
The outcome of those discussions could have an impact on our second quarter results and we'll have more to say about that when the discussions conclude.
Putting that all together we anticipate growth in adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS to slow significantly in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
Despite that we feel great about the momentum we're seeing across our businesses and are on track for another very good year of growth in adjusted EPS.
And our ongoing investments in high-quality video content and industry-leading brands positions us for continued growth over the years to come.
And now I'll turn it over to Mike to start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Howard.
Joe can you please start the Q&amp;A? Of course thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes here from Mr.
Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you good morning.
I wanted to come back to HBO NOW and the launch on Apple.
At least to me there's multiple benefits to this including targeting those broadband-only subs but also getting your existing distributors to be more aggressive and successful packaging and selling HBO.
I wonder Richard if you could talk about both of those potential benefits in the light of now the products in the market.
And you have a new DISH deal which I think is one of the companies that maybe has not done as well as we would have thought on selling HBO.
Are you seeing both of those benefits potentially play out in the market and when should we see that in the numbers? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Hey Ben.
Hey Richard.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Look first of all we couldn't be more pleased.
We got out of the gate very fast with Apple.
They're delighted; we're delighted.
We see a lot of momentum there.
And we are having what I would call very productive conversations with our traditional partners.
And I expect that by the end of the year we will have deals with them for HBO NOW as well.
I think obviously you have different [Audio Break] (32:33 – 32:38) weighing the benefits of taking that very valuable real estate together.
I think they understand and appreciate that there's a lot of growth for them as well as for us.
Thank you.
Anything else Ben? Yes I was just curious.
Apple has made a lot of noise.
There have been a lot of press reports that Apple is getting even bigger in TV.
I may be broadening this question out to Jeff and John.
How do you think about looking to them as a broader partner on a television bundle which seems to be something they might be focusing on for later this year? Is that something you think could be realistic? And would you embrace that opportunity when you think about Turner and the broader package? Hi Ben this is Jeff.
Yes we would.
Hey Jeff.
We think Apple is very forward thinking about television and the combination of TV and Internet.
And I think as Richard already said the recent partnership with HBO NOW is one example but you can also see it in the CNN placement on the Apple Watch and CNNGo on Apple TV.
So it's no surprise I don't think to anybody that Apple would be interested in launching a video product in the nature of a larger bundle as time goes along.
We're pretty confident that not only will Apple do that but you've also seen it with some of the other offerings whether it's Sling's or Sony's.
And there's a lot of energy and innovation around video-on-demand that is getting super-charged by the capacity of Internet delivery broadband delivery to really bring VOD and good interfaces to people's homes.
They love the channel.
And so if you have great channels and no weak channels which I think is the position of Time Warner all these developments are something that we welcome.
And we think it is going to be good for all the traditional distributors too to reinvigorate their packages and their marketing of channel packages that consumers want.
Thank you.
Thanks Ben.
Joe can we have the next question please? Of course.
Our next question comes from Vasily Karasyov from CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good morning.
I have one for John and one for Richard.
John we often hear from investors that they're concerned that Turner won't be able to hit the guidance for subscription revenue growth in the U.S.
because the number of U.S.
pay-TV households will decline and all those usual concerns.
I was wondering if you can share with us your thoughts on this subject and how you got comfortable internally with giving the guidance given where the pay-TV trends are in the United States.
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Hi Vasily.
Good morning.
Look we've successfully completed now in the United States eight out of the top 10 distributor deals.
And while we still have two deals to go we're quite confident that they will be completed on a satisfactory basis to us which will mean that we'll be getting the double-digit rate increases that we predicted and we expect to get.
And our confidence isn't going down; it's going up.
In fact at this point our rate card is what our rate card is.
And we've been – I still think that our unique combination of entertainment sports news kids and young adult networks are a tremendous value to both distributors and consumers.
So then the question comes back to what about the subscribers because obviously that's the volume part of the equation.
And while the U.S.
multi-channel household universe has been experiencing some subscriber losses they haven't been material and we don't anticipate that they're going to be material.
And as you've seen with us striking deals with Sling and with Sony and likely with others in the future we're working hard with our existing MVPD partners as well as new partners to try to bring the multi-channel subscription packaging to another level that will reach subscribers that otherwise haven't joined the multi-channel ecosystem.
So I'm hopeful I think we're hopeful collectively that this new packaging era that we're moving into is going to reverse the subscriber trend losses that we've been experiencing recently in the United States.
And I think we're entering a really really exciting period where we can absolutely see subscriber growth.
And I think you're going to see the Turner networks be in as many of those packages as possible because I think we're really really attractive.
Thank you; Richard and then one question for you.
I think as a follow-up on Ben's question.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
It sounds like you are more confident about the potential revenue acceleration after the DISH renewal.
Is it possible to give us a timeframe when we could see that acceleration in HBO subscription revenue? Thank you.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Look as we've said publicly look we expect our revenue growth to accelerate over the next years and we can certainly monetize our best performing affiliates to our advantage going forward.
But we've said this: we think there are 10 million to 15 million homes that are highly persuadable potential HBO subs and we're going to go after them.
We're going to go after them with HBO NOW and we're going to go after them with our affiliates.
And the more we make clear how big that opportunity is with empirical data I think the more responsive and receptive our partners are and that's certainly been our experience as we've taken the research in over the last few months.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Vasily.
Joe could we have our next question please? Of course.
Our next question comes from Michael Nathanson from MoffettNathanson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks I have one for Richard and then one for Jeff.
Richard on HBO NOW have you considered broadening out the content offering with either more kids' content from your company or Warner Bros.
library content or some of the Turner content that John is funding? So why not broaden out the HBO NOW offer to wider content? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Michael first of all we think the HBO NOW product as it currently exists is quite extraordinary.
We have four Hollywood movie studios.
We have 2 800 hours of library.
We have an extraordinary range of programming across a multitude of genres.
But there's no barrier to expanding what that content could be and we have an open mind about that.
Our cousins at Warner Bros.
and Turner could certainly be a part of that and I think we're very flexible about what might evolve with the content inside HBO NOW.
Kevin? Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> I think if you look at kids as an example we are working incredibly closely with Turner on a global strategy where we're putting our content and franchises behind two global platforms that John is driving in Cartoon Network and Boomerang.
And I think that it's an example of the kind of opportunity that can either live within HBO NOW or potentially on the side of HBO NOW.
It's what we talked about as an opportunity in October to you guys and I think we're clearly fleshing that out.
And it's just one example of what we're talking about within Time Warner.
Okay and let me turn to Jeff.
Jeff in the past you had this great quote that when a show was sold into SVOD their sprockets would be run off the show and that would destroy long-term value of the franchise of that show.
But now you've sold two of your most valuable shows Friends and Seinfeld into SVOD which are valuable to the cable networks that they're on.
So why wouldn't selling those shows into SVOD damage the value of the linear cable networks that have licensed Friends and Seinfeld? You have to admit; I've had some great quotes on SVOD.
Yes you have the best.
And I would just start with saying in the case of Seinfeld or Friends the ones you're mentioning Seinfeld I think is fourth cycle syndication; Friends is third cycle.
So the point we'll get into and I'm going to give it to Kevin in a minute is you have to look at the particular show and where it is in its life cycle.
You've got to look at what alternate use it would have in worldwide sales on other outlets whether it's networks or international territories et cetera.
So let me just say something about the SVOD impact on the ecosystem that I think answers your question.
Of course there are increased bidding as the world moves to offering more on-demand ways to see your favorite show.
All the networks whether it's in the United States or overseas are bringing VOD into their network offerings.
And so you can either license things to what we all used to think of as a traditional linear network that has a VOD offering like a SKY in Western Europe.
Or you could license it to an SVOD a pure SVOD service like Amazon Netflix Hulu Plus et cetera.
And what we basically do is we try to figure out what is the best match for a given piece of programming given its time in its life cycle and given the platform that it's going to be on.
And we're not just trying to optimize – we are trying to optimize the value of the show.
But we have to think about the position of the network or platform that's bidding for the rights and how to really evolve the overall ecosystem as we do it.
So that's basically how we view these things.
In the case of the shows you were mentioning we thought Hulu's ad-supported environment was a better fit for Turner shows on some of their deals and we think that the licensing choices we made on Seinfeld and Friends was the right choice for those.
But Kevin you're the one who did it that understands.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> Actually on Seinfeld Sony is the distributor but we agreed with the strategy because it really is as Jeff mentioned a show-by-show decision.
And you have to look at not only where the show is in its life cycle but what the marketplace looks like for that particular show.
So there isn't a one size fits all for when you should go out into SVOD on a particular program because I would use Person of Interest as an example.
Person of Interest in the first cycle of our syndication sale we shared the window with WGN and Netflix.
And so that's an example of where we think that that is an appropriate way to market that particular show to maximize its value.
In Friends and Seinfeld as Jeff mentioned those are very late in their life cycle third cycle for Friends and fourth cycle for Seinfeld.
And it was obviously very opportunistic and a very good economic value for those particular shows.
And so we took them and I think it was the right thing for both of those shows.
Okay thanks.
I have more but I'll come back.
Thanks.
Thanks Michael.
Joe can we have our next question please? Yes of course.
Our next question here comes from Mr.
Rich Greenfield from BTIG.
Please go ahead sir.
Hi thanks.
The first question on HBO NOW I realize it is very early in your rollout but I was wondering if you could have any way of giving us a sense of what percentage of subscribers you're seeing come from not in a MVPD bundle.
I assume you have some way of cross-checking who's who and getting some sense of how incremental this is versus people who might be downgrading bundles to take smaller bundles.
Any way of thinking about that would be very helpful.
And then I think Howard I think you had talked about what advertising growth rates looked like a year ago excluding the benefit from the NCAA Tournament or March Madness.
I was wondering.
When you looked at the comment you made about low single digits this quarter is there any way to think about what organically is happening ex the one-time sports event? Thanks.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> So Rich it's Richard.
Good morning.
You're absolutely right.
It is a little too early after three weeks to have anything reliable.
But I will tell you that we are seeing absolutely no intrusion into people inside the ecosystem none at all.
And we're very excited by that.
It's all additive.
As we've said from the beginning we always thought that this was going to be an expansion of the pie and that's exactly what it appears to be.
And Rich in terms of the advertising it's really not the same.
Last year was due to a shift in timing.
The timing of the games was the same this year.
So you have to – tell me exactly what you're looking for Rich.
I was just wondering if there was any way to think about how advertising was tracking ex-sports.
The tournament obviously was a huge success both on digital as well as on broadcast.
And I was just wondering if there was any way to think about how much of the performance this quarter was driven by even more advertiser interest in the tournament.
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Rich it's John.
I'll take a crack at it.
That's really hard.
That's not really the way we look at it.
And if you look at Q2 which Howard talked about in his proactive remarks we think the core advertising performance across our networks is going to look fairly similar to Q1.
And obviously in Q2 we didn't have the benefit of NCAA March Madness.
We're seeing strong demand continue for the NBA which is a continuation of the strong demand for sports.
And frankly we're seeing solid demand across all of our major entertainment properties.
That's exactly what I was looking for thank you.
Thanks Rich.
Joe could we have our next question please? Yes of course.
Our next question here comes from Mr.
Doug Mitchelson from UBS.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks so much.
I think there's a lot of investor focus on syndication so I wanted to continue that discussion.
First in the short term how is Warner's position into the upfront? Do you have any visibility on show pickups at this point and new show take rates? And longer term though you talked about SVOD strategy by show.
But if you look at the syndication market in total given the major programming write-offs at Turner and Viacom TV viewership for reruns seemingly in decline consumers shifting to on-demand Jeff you talk about that a lot.
Investors are wondering whether aggregate syndication values are going to start declining in a meaningful way as traditional networks pull back investment in acquired programming.
Anything on that would be helpful.
Thanks.
I'm going to say I'm starting with no they're going to go up not down.
But Kevin why don't you do the piece (48:14)? Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> Thank you a lot of pressure.
What I would say is as far as the upfronts all the pilots are done.
They're in with the networks right now.
We've tested them.
We feel very good about our upfronts – our pilots.
We have 15 of them across all the networks.
We have three DC pilots that we're very proud of.
We're continuing to just have strong DC pilots.
We have Supergirl Legends of Tomorrow and Lucifer on three different networks CBS The CW and FOX.
So that knock on wood I think we feel very good about.
As far as syndication value goes as Jeff said we're continuing to see incredibly healthy demand for the biggest shows.
Obviously I would use The Big Bang Theory as an example of that and why there's continued demand for those types of shows.
They continue to perform extremely well.
And despite cable networks and John can comment on this the expansion of original programming there's still a need for our programming and syndicated product to go in to be able to fill out a 24-hour schedule.
And so we're going to continue to be able to fulfill that need.
Will there be pressure on second and third and fourth tiered shows? Absolutely I think that you will see some pressure on those shows.
But the newer big shows that I think that you've been accustomed from seeing from Warner Bros.
will continue to have healthy healthy domestic syndication value.
And we're not talking about – I don't think your concerns are international because international we've seen incredibly strong growth from our international licensing.
So if your concern is domestic I think you can see some pressure on the second third and fourth tier shows.
I think it's more what makes the first tier shows even more valuable because they're breaking out.
And internationally across the board we're seeing strong growth.
If I might just add you have bidding demand going up from both traditional networks bidding for linear plus VOD exhibition and you have new bidding pressure from VOD players.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> I think Hulu's announcement that you saw today with AMC and recently with Turner is actually a very good indication of the buoyancy of the SVOD – multiple SVOD players domestically stepping up which is a positive.
Great thank you.
Thanks Doug.
Joe could we have our next question please? Yes our next question comes from Michael Morris from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning guys a couple topics.
First the Verizon custom TV product that was announced can you share whether that's compliant with your agreements with them; and maybe more broadly how you feel about a package or a product like that that includes different packages for different types of networks? And then second of all it seems pretty clear that consumer demand for binge-watching programs continues to grow.
I'm curious how you guys view that and how you think about potentially releasing full seasons of programming at once whether it be HBO or something that would normally go on Turner? Thanks.
We don't think much of the binge strategy for our networks but I'm going to leave you guys to that.
On Verizon I'll start.
John you might want to talk and do it with me.
I guess I'm not going to comment much on Verizon's current situation with some of the other networks other companies not ours.
In the case of ours we feel very good both about our contracts and how to protect our networks.
But more important than that we feel good about really the strength and concentration and reach of our networks because if you look at the Turner networks with the top four networks having the lion's share of Turner's business if you put HBO with that you have five of the most heavily demanded must-carry networks in the world that have been really sought after by everybody that's coming up with these various other packages smaller packages VOD packages whatever it is.
And we think basically whether it's the question of what goes into a video-on-demand package or what goes into a smaller bundle to the extent distributors are able to create packages that are more attractive to consumers given the networks we have we think that's great for both consumers and for our networks.
And that's the reason why over the last many years we were concentrating our efforts on basically making our must-have networks stronger and having more must-see programming rather than launching marginal networks that others have done.
So we've got about 90% of our affiliate fees at Time Warner in five networks and we think they add a lot of value to consumers and have the kind of programming that people love on demand.
That's basically our view whether the question is smaller bundles or VOD packages.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> The only thing I would add is that in the future what you define as a network today in order to be successful you either have to have a strong brand with reach or if you're a niche network you have to have a wildly passionate fan base to drive engagement.
Those networks will survive.
If you have neither of those there's only one word in your future: death.
Don't mince words Kevin.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> Enough said.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Michael it's Richard.
I would respectfully dissent about the binge dynamic two points.
One if you take a show like The Jinx for example which was an enormously popular quintessential HBO show you would have ruined the entire momentum and excitement about that show had people been able to binge watch it.
Part of the whole dynamic was following that mystery as it evolved.
Secondly on shows like Thrones and True Detective I think there's a lot to be said for having social media and the zeitgeist itself be a part of a continuing conversation over eight weeks 10 weeks 12 weeks and we like that.
We think that's great for the brand.
We think our consumers like that.
If we decided that wasn't the case we've got the shows ready.
We could make them available to binge.
But right now we like laying it out on a week-to-week basis.
And by the way if people decide they want to binge they can save up and binge later in the middle of the season.
So I'm not of the school that there's an overwhelming propensity to binge watch.
I just don't believe it.
As Jack Nicholson said you don't want us to binge.
You don't want to binge.
You can't handle the binging.
Think if Game of Thrones was available all at once.
You don't want that.
Thanks Michael.
Thanks guys.
Joe could we have our next question please? Yes of course.
Our next question come from Jessica Reif Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks I have two topics.
The first is Turner regarding upfront advertising.
I was just wondering how you'll approach this year's market given consistent ratings issues with Nielsen in regards to non-linear viewing and obviously device viewing.
And I guess another element will be programmatic buying and how that affects the upfronts versus actual dollars flowing in but just the upfront headline.
So could you just give us color on you how you guys are thinking about it this year? Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Sure Jessica.
Thanks this is John.
I'll start.
So look obviously it's early to discuss with any level of specificity.
But at least starting from a broad perspective the ad market appears to have stabilized compared to what we were looking at in the fourth quarter of last year so I think that's a real positive.
In addition despite the Nielsen ratings challenges we're seeing ratings momentum across most of our big networks; so of course that should help as well.
And we're feeling really good about the programming lineup that we'll be unveiling for advertisers in a few weeks.
And we're going to come to the market for the first time in the history of Turner with our entire portfolio and so we're excited about that.
And we will be unveiling and you'll see new products with an increased focus on data analytics targeting and ROI.
And I thought today's article in The Wall Street Journal was just the early stages of the case that TV is going to be making as it relates to a really vibrant advertising medium.
So we're going to be offering advertisers the ability to integrate data analytics into TV advertising and also to do behavioral targeting.
And while targeting is not new for us it's different now at least for three reasons.
Number one there's significantly more data available than ever before.
Number two it helps us understand our audiences better and how to categorize the audiences into segments that are valuable to advertisers.
And then the third is technology advances enable us to better manage inventory and insert the right ads at the right time to the right audience.
So we're looking forward to unveiling the upfront in a few weeks and you'll see that.
Regarding programmatic I'll speak to it from the network side and maybe Kevin will comment from the studio side.
We're continuing to explore obviously many new advertising models.
That includes programmatic.
On the TV side we're experimenting with a very small amount of our inventory.
And we've got strong controls in place around pricing.
And it's not likely that we're going to be doing programmatic at scale on the TV side in the near term.
At Turner we've got a small number of must-have networks obviously and we don't have a material amount of excess inventory anyway.
So that's the kind of inventory which would more likely get sold programmatically.
And so we'll probably continue to leverage it selectively.
We're doing more audience targeting on TV but let's not confuse that with programmatic.
In digital it's clearly a much bigger opportunity and we're using programmatic a lot more.
And we're going to continue to sell a bigger portion of our digital inventory through programmatic partners and at the same time building out more robust data management capabilities to provide our advertising partners with better audience segmentation and targeting.
And that should allow us to monetize our inventory more effectively.
So let me turn it to Kevin.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> And on the buy side we view programmatic as a big opportunity.
We're focusing on a number of different trials today across a number of different opportunities across the studio.
We think that it could lead to millions of dollars of savings through efficiencies on the digital marketing side.
Obviously it's not as John mentioned something that we're currently exploring on the television side.
Obviously at some point in the future that could also be an opportunity for us to explore as well.
Today we're focusing on digital.
But it really is something that is in the very very near future because these trials so far are showing some really really positive things.
Thanks Jessica.
And then my second question actually was for Richard.
I think Howard said earlier in the call that to the extent that you're successful there would be incremental investment in HBO NOW.
Could you clarify? What areas do you think that you need to maybe invest in more? And are there any benchmarks that you can give us over the next 12 months that we should be looking for to define success for HBO NOW? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> There are no benchmarks that we're prepared to talk about today other than to tell you that I used the phrase decidedly we're out of the gate fast and we are.
On investment quite obviously it's going be marketing.
We want to make the value proposition clear to the consumer.
We want to work with Apple to do that and eventually when that exclusive expires working with new digital partners.
So that is the primary investment.
Obviously there are some additional tech costs but they're not material and we built them into the plan.
The real thing we want to focus on going forward in the second half of the year is marketing our product to the consumer because we think there's a huge audience out there for it and the initial start with Apple makes that very clear.
Thank you.
Thanks Jessica.
Joe we have time for one more question please.
Thank you.
Our next question here comes from John Janedis from Jefferies LLC.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Jeff can you talk a little bit more broadly about the domestic SVOD landscape? It seems like Hulu has been making more of a push based on recent deals with maybe Netflix being less aggressive.
What does the environment look like? How different is Netflix's appetite to license content and is the U.S.
still a growth market for you? I'm not sure.
Yes the U.S.
is a growth market.
The subscription VOD marketplace in the U.S.
is growing and it's strong.
I think you've got more appetite and vigorous programming aims coming in at Hulu Plus.
I think the same is true of Amazon.
I think Netflix is doing a good job and continues to expand its appetite both for domestic originals that they're making and also things that they license.
Overseas you have the same story.
And you can add to that not just the SVOD players like Amazon Netflix et cetera but you can add the – depending on which country pretty strong SVOD platforms coming out from what used to be traditional linear programming.
So what is very clear is that all the TV in the world is going to go on demand and it's going to happen with both the broadband SVOD companies and the traditional TV companies.
All right thank you.
Thank you John.
Thanks everybody for joining us today.
Please let us know if you have any questions.
We'll be around for them.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Time Warner Incorporated second quarter 2015 earnings call.
My name is Amanda and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Time Warner's second quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued two press releases one detailing our results for the second quarter and the other reaffirming our 2015 full-year business outlook.
Before we begin there are two items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our website.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to Jeff Bewkes Time Warner's Chairman and CEO who will be followed by Howard Averill Time Warner's CFO.
After their prepared remarks our divisional CEOs John Martin Richard Plepler and Kevin Tsujihara will join us for our Q&amp;A session.
Jeff? Thanks Mike and thanks everyone for listening in this morning.
We had another very strong quarter with revenues increasing 8% to $7.3 billion reflecting growth at all our operating divisions.
We grew our adjusted operating income by 15% to a record $1.9 billion.
Adjusted EPS was up 28%.
And year to date we've returned $2.6 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
These results reflect the steady progress we're making on our strategic priorities and they put us on track for another year of very attractive financial performance.
As you all know we're committed to delivering industry-leading financial results while investing aggressively to adapt to the rapid changes in the media landscape.
We will continue to help fund those investments through a companywide focus on operational efficiency.
And those investments are what will allow us to capitalize on the growing global opportunities for the very best video content across both the traditional and emerging video ecosystems.
You can see how we're taking advantage of those opportunities in the performance of each of our divisions this quarter.
Let me start with Home Box Office where our unrivaled original programming has never been stronger.
This year HBO and its sister channel Cinemax received a combined 131 Primetime Emmy nominations.
That includes a record of 126 for HBO.
And that marks the 15th year in a row that HBO has received the most nominations of any network.
And it includes nominations for outstanding comedy series for Silicon Valley and Veep and for outstanding drama series for Game of Thrones.
These accolades reflect the excitement we're seeing among HBO subscribers.
Game of Thrones' fifth season set yet another record as the most watched HBO season ever captivating over 20 million viewers each episode.
And three of our acclaimed newcomers from last year Silicon Valley Last Week Tonight with John Oliver and True Detective each returned to strong audiences in their second seasons.
In June we introduced two new hits Ballers and The Brink both of which have already been renewed.
We launched HBO NOW our standalone streaming service in the U.S.
during the second quarter and we're extremely pleased with how well it's been received.
It was the top grossing entertainment app on iTunes in both May and June and we recently extended its distribution to Verizon Amazon and Google.
We'll be adding other platforms soon as well as more traditional distribution partners.
Given the positive early reaction to NOW we are already investing in additional programming to support the service.
For example we think programming from our new multi-platform agreement with sports personality Bill Simmons will be particularly appealing to consumers in an on-demand environment.
At the same time our discussions with the creative community indicate HBO GO and HBO NOW have made the service an even more attractive outlet and you will see additional announcements demonstrating that in the coming months.
In addition to programming we'll be investing even more in marketing to take advantage of the large subscriber opportunity we see in front of us.
We are also in the process of significantly increasing our programming investment at Turner's Entertainment Networks with a focus on more creatively ambitious projects and that's going to further differentiate and strengthen networks that are already leading the industry.
In the second quarter TNT and TBS ranked number one and number two respectively among ad-supported cable networks in primetime with adults 18 to 49.
And including Adult Swim Turner claimed the top three spots in primetime among adults 18 to 34.
Adult Swim also finished as ad-supported cable's number one network in total day among adults 18 to 34 for the 29th consecutive quarter supported by originals like Rick and Morty which just celebrated its second season debut by more than doubling its audience from last season's premiere.
TNT's leading performance in the quarter underscored the importance of our partnership with the NBA and the strength of our on-air talent so we're particularly pleased that the crew of the Emmy award-winning Inside the NBA has re-upped with Turner for the duration of our new NBA agreement.
Over time we're confident that refreshing our brands and our content at TBS and TNT will result in the same kind of renaissance we're seeing at Cartoon Network and CNN.
Cartoon Network grew total day ratings among kids 6 to 11 by double digits and it was the only major kids' network to grow in the quarter overtaking Nickelodeon as the number two network in that demo for the first time in its history.
At CNN primetime viewership in its key 25-to-54 demo grew 25% in the quarter and it continued to age down while our competitors aged up.
CNN is also building on its lead in digital.
In June CNN.com streamed 212 million videos.
That's a record for the site and it made it the news leader in digital video for the second straight month ahead of Buzzfeed and Yahoo! News.
Turner and Warner Bros.
are also making progress on their global kids strategy.
Together they recently announced plans to produce close to 450 half-hours of original animated content for Turner's kids networks and to make greater use of Warner's iconic animation library globally.
In addition to making Boomerang a global flanker brand for Cartoon Network this will provide a new platform for Warner's to reinvigorate classic characters and to create new kids franchises and it's a great example of the natural collaboration taking place across the company.
We're upgrading not just our content but also our marketing partners' ability to utilize it effectively.
At this year's upfront we announced the new Turner Data Cloud which provides marketers a greatly enhanced ability to target audiences across our linear and digital properties.
And our innovative advertising products were critical to Turner garnering price increases at the very top of the industry.
Warner Bros.
also had a strong performance in this year's upfront with 62 programs slated for the upcoming television season.
Warner's lineup included 29 shows on broadcast primetime with at least two series on each network.
That includes a record 20 returning shows and it makes Warner's the top supplier of broadcast series again this year.
We all know Warner's is the gold standard in television and film production but its growing video game business is also an industry leader.
For the first half of the year Warner ranked as the top video game publisher in North America and had the two biggest releases in Batman: Arkham Knight and Mortal Kombat X.
We're looking to build on that momentum with next month's release of LEGO Dimensions our entry into the toys-to-life category.
What you've seen across Warner which is also happening throughout our company is how the best IP can be monetized across many different platforms both inside and beyond traditional ecosystems.
For example DC content is the basis for seven shows scheduled to air in the upcoming season including returning hits like The Flash and Gotham and new shows such as Supergirl.
It's also the basis for our biggest games franchise and new ventures like DC's Super Hero Girls the toys and digital content partnership we recently announced with Mattel.
Plus I can't resist pointing out we still have a nice business selling actual comic books.
And of course there are the films.
At last month's Comic-Con the new trailer for Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice generated the most buzz of any upcoming film both inside the convention halls and on social media and DC's Suicide Squad was not far behind.
Those films don't come out until 2016 but they provide a sense as to why we have so much confidence in our slate for the next year and many years to come.
So a year after the Time Inc.
spinoff I'm really pleased with how we're executing our strategy to take advantage of the growing opportunities we see both within and beyond the traditional video ecosystem.
At the same time we recognize the pace of change in our industry is accelerating.
And that means we're going to have to move even faster to ensure we have the best content provide the best possible consumer experience and can monetize our viewership effectively across a wide variety of platforms and geographies all while maintaining our focus on operational efficiency.
So in the coming months and years you'll see us investing aggressively to stay ahead of the changes in our industry and capitalize on an environment where the biggest hits networks and brands are taking share.
With our global scale and strong brands I'm confident we're well positioned for that environment and that we can both meet our strategic objectives and continue to deliver industry-leading financial results.
With that let me turn it over to Howard.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide of our presentation which is now available on our website starting with consolidated results.
Halfway through the year we're really pleased with our execution to date.
In the first half we grew adjusted operating income 13% and adjusted EPS 25%.
And we did that while making progress on our strategic objectives and investing aggressively for future growth.
In the second quarter revenue was up a very healthy 8%.
And adjusted operating income rose 15% to $1.9 billion a record quarterly profit.
And excluding a drag of approximately 400 basis points from FX revenue growth would have been 12%.
In addition to strong revenue growth adjusted operating income margins expanded more than 150 basis points.
And that's despite 6% growth in total expenses primarily from increased investments in content and marketing.
Moving forward we'll remain disciplined on overhead and other non-programming-related spending to help fund investments that will strengthen our competitive position and drive future growth.
Moving down the income statement adjusted EPS grew 28% in the quarter.
So once again we were able to grow adjusted EPS even faster than adjusted operating income.
That was helped by our ongoing share repurchase program and a lower effective tax rate in the quarter.
During the quarter we repurchased over $900 million in shares and paid close to $300 million in dividends.
So year to date we've returned over $2.6 billion to shareholders.
And this morning we reaffirmed our guidance for 2015 adjusted EPS to be in the range of $4.60 to $4.70.
That implies mid-teens growth in adjusted EPS when excluding the programming and restructuring charges and tax matters from the second half of 2014 and that's despite a material drag from a stronger U.S.
dollar that we have discussed with you previously.
So we feel really good about how we're operating and remain focused on executing our strategy to drive continued growth longer term.
Now turning to the segment highlights I'll begin at Turner where we posted very strong profit growth of 20%.
Subscription revenues increased 2% or 6% excluding the impact of FX.
Domestic subscription revenue grew 4% consistent with the first quarter.
Absent a drag of approximately 20 percentage points from FX international subscription revenue was up low double digits.
And on that basis we continue to see the healthiest trends in Latin America.
Looking to the third quarter we expect a negative impact of approximately 500 basis points on total subscription revenue growth as a result of FX and the benefit from certain contractual settlements in the third quarter of 2014.
However we expect underlying domestic subscriber trends to be consistent with the first half of the year and remain on track for domestic sub revenue growth to accelerate into the teens in 2016 and 2017.
Moving on advertising declined 1% but excluding FX grew a little more than 1%.
That was a bit below our initial expectations largely due to airing fewer NBA playoff games than anticipated.
In total the impact from foreign exchange fewer NBA games and the absence of NASCAR weighed on growth by close to 500 basis points in the quarter.
Domestic advertising grew slightly in the quarter.
International advertising grew low single digits when excluding an FX drag of over 18% and the benefit from the consolidation of our sports network in Brazil and that was despite difficult comparisons in Latin America due to the impact of the World Cup last year.
Looking ahead to the third quarter scatter pricing is currently pacing up high single to low double digits.
The ratings at our entertainment networks will likely offset that benefit.
We also expect a drag of over 400 basis points on advertising from the combination of foreign exchange and the absence of NASCAR programming.
As a result we anticipate total advertising revenue to be down modestly.
Content and other revenues increased close to 50% in the quarter and that was boosted by our deal with Hulu which is a great example of how we can benefit from our increased investment in and ownership of original programming.
Adjusted operating income was up 20% with margins expanding close to 600 basis points.
That was helped by a 6% decline in total expenses including lower programming costs.
Programming expenses were down 9% in the quarter.
That was largely due to the absence of NASCAR programming as well as lower acquired programming costs.
As we discussed with you previously we are investing in new content that better fits our refreshed programming strategy at TNT and TBS.
The ramp in that programming will start to show up in the fourth quarter of this year.
Taking that into account and the absence of NASCAR programming in the third quarter we anticipate that programming cost growth will be heavily weighted to the fourth quarter.
SG&amp;A expenses were essentially flat in the quarter.
But excluding a reversal of an accrued contingency in the second quarter of last year SG&amp;A would have been down mid-single digits.
And that reflects our continued focus on cost efficiencies and savings from last year's restructuring actions.
So overall Turner is executing really well and is making great progress on its strategic initiatives.
And we remain on track to deliver strong growth and adjusted operating income in 2015 while continuing to make the investments necessary to position us for strong growth over the long term.
Turning now to HBO where we are investing significantly to take advantage of the large global opportunity we see for premium services domestically subscription revenue growth remained in the mid-single digits despite very attractive sub growth.
Consistent with recent quarters subscription revenue growth has been limited by a shift toward non-revenue generating subs.
Over time we expect to better monetize those subscribers which should help drive an acceleration in domestic subscription revenue growth.
Similarly we anticipate HBO NOW will be a more material contributor to subscription revenue growth over time.
We're pleased with the initial consumer response to the service but we saw only a modest benefit to the sub revenue in the second quarter due to the 30-day free trial period for new subscribers.
Looking ahead to the third quarter we expect to benefit from a full quarter of paying subs on HBO NOW.
And as Jeff mentioned HBO NOW recently launched on Amazon Google and Verizon which should contribute more meaningfully to subscription revenue growth later in the year.
Moving on content and other revenues were down 7% in the quarter due in part to difficult comparisons with our home entertainment releases.
In the quarter we recognized a comparable amount of revenues from our licensing agreement with Amazon as we did in the year-ago quarter while agreeing to expand our relationship to include the distribution of HBO NOW.
At our international networks including unconsolidated JVs we continue to see good subscriber growth though revenue declined due to foreign currency movements and the transfer of HBO's basic service in India to Turner.
Adjusted operating income fell 8% in the quarter as we made significant investments in marketing and technology to support the launch of HBO NOW.
And given our plan to continue investing in customer acquisition we expect HBO NOW to generate losses for the remainder of this year and that's typical for an early-stage subscriber business.
Even so we're on track for another good year of adjusted operating income growth as we anticipate revenue trends to improve in the second half of the year.
And our early experience suggests that HBO NOW will be a highly profitable revenue stream for us over time.
Moving on to Warner Bros.
which posted a record second quarter growing revenue 15% and adjusted operating income 46% and that's despite a significant drag from foreign exchange.
These results underscore our growing ability to monetize the best IP across a wide variety of platforms.
The biggest growth driver was our games business which posted its best quarter ever led by the strong performance of franchise releases Batman: Arkham Knight and Mortal Kombat X.
Games revenue more than tripled passing $0.5 billion in the second quarter alone.
And with the great IP at Warner's disposal we remain optimistic about the long-term opportunity for this business.
On the TV side revenue increased over 20% due to strong growth in licensing fees.
That growth included the second cycle syndication of The Big Bang Theory the SVOD licensing of Seinfeld and an international license of Friends all of which highlight the increasing value of hit content.
In our theatrical business revenues declined in the quarter despite modest growth from our film releases.
And that was a result of lower TV licensing of films and the timing of the home entertainment release of the latest installment of The Hobbit franchise.
Across theatrical and TV home entertainment revenue was down 18%.
That was due to the timing of the home entertainment release I just mentioned and softness in catalog.
Even with that difficult comparison EST revenue growth remained healthy increasing close to 20%.
And EST growth for the industry was close to 30% helping offset a decline in physical sales that took consumer spending across the broader home entertainment industry down mid-single digits in the quarter.
So overall Warner Bros.
had a terrific quarter and is on pace for very attractive growth and a record year of adjusted operating income in 2015.
And with a great theatrical slate and momentum at our TV and games businesses we're confident we can continue to drive solid growth in the coming years.
Turning to the next slide free cash flow totaled $1.8 billion in the first half.
That's down from a year ago due to a significant swing in working capital but is still very healthy conversion.
Growth in working capital reflects higher receivables from increased games and content revenues the timing of collections severance payments related to last year's restructuring initiatives and increased content investments across our divisions.
Cash interest increased modestly as a result of the additional debt we issued last year.
And our cash taxes declined primarily due to favorable tax legislation that was passed late in 2014.
Looking ahead we continue to expect working capital to be a more significant use of cash for the full year than it was in 2014 and that is mainly due to strong syndication revenues at Warner's and severance payments related to the restructuring actions taken in 2014.
Despite that we anticipate 2015 will be another healthy year for free cash flow generation.
Now looking at our balance sheet we ended the second quarter with $20.7 billion of net debt up nearly $800 million from the end of 2015.
That's largely due to our ongoing commitment to direct shareholder returns.
In the first half of the year we returned a total of $2.4 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
Since our last call we took advantage of favorable market conditions to strengthen our balance sheet by issuing $2.9 billion of long-term debt at attractive rates.
That included our first euro-denominated debt offering which will act as a natural hedge to the euro-denominated assets on our balance sheet.
We also retired $1.7 billion of debt as a result of the maturity of a tender offer we made for higher-priced debt and we're in the process of redeeming the remaining $300 million of that series of debt.
Our net leverage ratio at the end of the quarter was approximately three times.
However excluding programming restructuring and severance charges from the second half of 2014 our leverage ratio would have been 2.64 times slightly below our target leverage of 2.75 times.
We continue to believe that leverage target provides us the flexibility to invest in our businesses engage in strategic M&amp;A and provide direct returns to shareholders while at the same time optimizing our cost of capital and providing strong access to the capital markets in a variety of macroeconomic scenarios.
With that let's move on to the final slide which looks at our outlook for 2015.
We had a great first half of the year and we're very pleased with the progress we're making across our businesses.
That progress is evident in our results to date and our 2015 outlook for adjusted EPS of $4.60 to $4.70 which we have reaffirmed this morning.
As we've discussed with you previously that includes a foreign exchange headwind of approximately $0.40 based on current rates.
Excluding that FX headwind our outlook would imply over 20% growth off last year's base of $4.15.
That outlook also includes ongoing investments at our network businesses in areas such as programming marketing and technology to strengthen our position within the rapidly changing ecosystem and those investments will be heavily weighted toward the back half of this year.
At Turner we'll begin ramping up our content investments resulting in significantly higher programming costs and associated marketing expenses starting in the fourth quarter.
Meanwhile at HBO we intend to continue investing in customer acquisition and technology for HBO NOW as we expand distribution and position the product for long-term success.
At Warner's we have challenging theatrical comparisons in the second half of the year.
Still we anticipate healthy growth in the third quarter due to the syndication of Two Broke Girls and Person of Interest as well as the continued benefit from our strong games slate.
Taking the timing of our investment spending into account we expect our growth in adjusted EPS will slow materially in the back half of the year.
Even so we are on track for another year of very attractive growth in adjusted EPS.
And we believe the investments we're making in high-quality content and the development of new business models will position us for accelerating growth in the future.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike to start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Howard.
Amanda can you please open it up to Q&amp;A? I'd like to remind everybody to please limit yourself to one or two questions so we can get to more people.
Amanda? Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Michael Nathanson from MoffettNathanson.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thank you.
I have two one for Richard and one for Howard.
Richard let me ask you about international.
Over the past few months as Netflix has rolled out into international markets there was a groundswell of opinion that thinks they can reach over 100 million subscribers in five years' time.
Are those projections close to being right? And I'm going to ask you later to comment on those projections.
What does HBO need to do to benefit from the international opportunity and when can you roll out HBO NOW overseas to actually take advantage of what could be a gigantic market? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> We like our international strategy a lot Michael.
As you know we have three tiers to it our operating networks in 60 countries our licensing deals in over 150 markets and our home of HBO deals.
And we've seen – as the value of content increases we've seen our profits increase.
Nordics has been a very interesting case study for us though because it shows the power of a multilateral approach.
We've grown OTT subs in Nordic and we've grown our linear business.
So we look at that and we will be making announcements in the near future about new OTT businesses.
But we're going to take it on a case-by-case basis.
We're going to follow the money and we're going to focus on profits as we always have done.
Okay let me ask one for Howard.
As you've known two of your peers have reduced their public guidance for a variety of reasons including foreign exchange advertising subscriber growth.
Do you still feel comfortable about the guidance you gave on EPS in 2016 and 2018? You gave it back in October but I wonder.
Have things changed enough for you to update the guidance? You know what Michael I appreciate the question and we are aware of some of the trends that you just talked about.
But unlike our annual outlook we don't change our update on long-term targets from quarter to quarter.
We're very pleased about how we're operating across all of our businesses and you can see that from the strong results we generated in the first half of this year.
And as we typically do we're going to provide greater specificity on our long-term outlook at year end.
Thanks Michael.
Amanda can we have our next question please? Our next question is from Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you very much.
My question is on really your outlook for a step up in affiliate revenue growth in 2016 now that you've completed or you're in the process of completing most of your renewals.
I guess what assumptions do you have in there in terms of sub declines or just sub outlooks in general? And have you seen acceleration in declines I guess since you initially gave that guidance a little while ago? Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Thanks Alexia it's John.
So listen again I appreciate the question.
I think if you go back to when we started to talk about domestic subscription revenue growth expectations we've been remarkably on track.
And I would say that we're still very very much on track from our original expectations.
So last year we grew domestic subscriber revenue high single digits.
This year we expected that to moderate somewhat into mid-single digits and I fully expect we'll be able to hit that.
And then in 2016 and then again in 2017 we fully expect that to accelerate well into the teens.
And against that backdrop we have seen some modest unit declines in the U.S.
but I would say that that trend has been in existence and ongoing now for some time.
We have not seen any acceleration in those declines.
And those declines have not been overly material.
And of course that trend has really been in front of our inclusion in some of these more economically viable or skinny packages which we think over time as they become a little bit more mature might have the ability to stabilize the overall unit trends and possibly even return it to growth over time as we think the distributors' ability to offer more economically but very attractive bundles to that element of the demand is only a positive thing.
And of course we at Turner have the type of networks that we think will be overly represented in those type of bundles.
So we think the trends have been in existence for some time.
There has been no acceleration of any negative trends.
And we're still really positive and optimistic about what the future holds.
Alexia this is Jeff.
I just want to add.
I think everything John said and if you consider to the extent skinny bundles or smaller bundles become more prevalent and Turner will be in those that's a good thing for HBO as well.
Okay just a quick follow-up if I may.
Thank you for all the color you guys gave earlier in terms of your leverage targets and free cash flow.
One of your peers this morning mentioned that the rating agencies are weighing on the media industry more heavily now and getting a bit more strict in terms of the targets.
Have you experienced that and does that change any of your priorities for use of cash? Are you talking about leverage ratios Alexia? Yes are the ratings agencies coming in a bit harder on you guys maybe putting you guys under a bit more scrutiny? No I think we've had a pretty consistent process working with the rating agencies over time and we are in a good spot and feel confident about the leverage structure we have.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Alexia.
Amanda can we have our next question please? Our next question comes from Omar Sheikh from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone a question for Richard first of all on HBO NOW.
I hear what you say on the comments you made on the level of demand.
I wondered if you might be able to just give us an idea of what kind of programming you're adding to the NOW product.
And are you seeing any change in the MVPD base? Is it primarily the pro bono (34:37) universe you're taking subs from? Some color on that will be very helpful.
And then a question for Howard possibly on the Turner programming expense growth for this year.
You've called out some of the investment that you'll be making and the phasing of that in quarters.
But I wonder whether you could just update us on your full-year expectations for programming expense growth this year.
Thanks.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Omar hi it's Richard.
Thank you for the question.
Look it's obviously early days but we are very excited by what we've seen with HBO NOW right out of the gate.
We've just added as you know Amazon and Google to Apple.
You'll see other products added in the near future.
And everything we're seeing both from sampling and from subscriber satisfaction has exceeded our expectations.
With regard to any kind of cannibalization I can tell you as we predicted and as our research indicated we've seen less than 1% of HBO subs leave the bundle to go get HBO NOW which is exactly what we suspected was going to happen.
So while it's very early we feel very good about it and we think HBO NOW will be very profitable in the coming quarters.
Omar it's Howard.
In terms of the programming expense we do expect on a full-year basis to be up modestly for the year.
But as I indicated in my prepared remarks it's going to be heavily weighted to the fourth quarter.
And I can let John provide any other insight on that.
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Listen thanks for the question.
We've been expecting for some time that on average in any given year we expect to hold down programming cost growth to on average no more than high single digits.
And so clearly in some years it will be higher; in some years it will be lower.
This year in 2015 it will be a year as Howard just said with the expectation of growth only in the low single digits that it will be lower than the average.
In part that's due to the loss of NASCAR and before some of the new sports deals kick in in future years.
So for example programming costs in Q3 will probably be down again because of the absence of NASCAR.
In the fourth quarter I think we're currently planning on doubling the number of original series episodes compared to a year ago.
And they'll be a lot more heavily weighted to the scripted side versus non-scripted where it was a year ago too so the average cost per episode will be higher.
But we're really excited about the programming cycle that we're going to be beginning to enter which should be over a prolonged period.
So we think that that investment is very smart it's wise and it's going to be and will remain very much in control.
Perfect thanks very much.
Thanks Omar.
Amanda can we have the next question please? Our next question is from Doug Mitchelson from UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks so much a couple topics for me as well.
I think first Richard and Jeff I was just hoping you'd expound on what you've learned so far with the HBO NOW launch in the U.S.
I don't know if there's any contrast with what you've seen so far in the U.S.
versus your experience in the Nordics which you highlighted has nice traction now with the conversion rate you're seeing from free app downloads to paid subs.
And any clarity or quantification to your willingness to spend on incremental marketing and programming that you discussed in your formal remarks? That's the first topic.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Look I think what's clear to us is we have to make clear to first the low-hanging fruit which is the 10.7 million broadband-only subscribers what HBO NOW is how much value is in there 3 000 hours of library all of our movie output and that is part of the marketing investment that we're going to make.
The good news is that it's pretty clear once people see the value as we explain it to them of what's in the HBO NOW package and what kind of versatility it provides them they are very very responsive to it.
So we need to make that investment going forward that marketing investment going forward so we can drive profits in HBO NOW and that's what we plan to do.
Richard I guess I'm trying to figure out whether that's a pretty efficient digital spend because you're talking app downloads or whether you actually pursue traditional marketing highlighting your programming because then it helps both HBO and HBO NOW.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> It's a little bit of both.
The spend is going to be both digital and in traditional television.
But quite obviously when we're selling HBO NOW and all the brand components of it it also has a certain resonance for the brand itself.
And remember not only do we see a huge opportunity in the 10.7 million broadband-only homes; that is the low-hanging fruit.
But as we've said before there are 70 million people in the ecosystem that don't subscribe to HBO.
We want to go after that market as well with our partners.
And that's why we were very excited last week to see Verizon Wireless sign up for HBO NOW.
We think that's going to be followed by other distributors doing it.
It's a huge opportunity for them to grow their businesses.
And as I said earlier less than 1% of the linear subscribers have left to go get HBO NOW.
So we see this as additive for our partners in the traditional business and we want to continue to drive that point because there's gold in the hills for them too.
And Richard anything you want to offer for us on sub levels or conversion rate from free to paid? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> A little too early to do that I think but stay tuned.
All right this will be quick.
Howard or Jeff just let me try another way because I think not reaffirming longer-term guidance can be perceived negatively.
Can you talk about what trends you're seeing that are more positive or more negative versus what you were expecting last October so perhaps investors can add up for themselves whether you're tracking ahead or behind the long-term guidance? I know John already indicated if I heard him right no material change in affiliate fee revenues.
Are there any other puts or takes that you would highlight at this point? Doug there are a lot of things out there that we're seeing.
There are some positive and some negative.
You did hear us talk about the sub trends.
We're very aware of the advertising profit.
Look we've made some pretty good progress on the initiatives that we talked about last year as well.
So again it comes back to the fact that we'll give an update when we get closer to year end hopefully year end next year.
Other positive trends you've got very positive demand trends across the world for both content sales episode shows movies and for networks and that's a huge positive trend.
And you're seeing it in sub counts across the global environment.
You're seeing it in increased buying pressure pricing et cetera for content whether it's in first-run whether it's in syndication or whether it's in SVOD.
In fact all those things support each other.
And so what you see everybody talks a lot about for example SVOD or Netflix internationally.
That's fine that's good but what that does is it leads to increased demand from other SVOD services.
It leads to increased demand from other incumbent networks all over the world and those are pretty positive.
I think we mentioned a number of things in the prepared remarks on overcoming FX.
And I think the way you opened your question is not something we totally agree with.
The timing is such we're not going to make specific statements every quarter on very long-term guidance.
Things are going very well for us.
If you look at 2015 this year you had headwinds in foreign exchange of about $0.40 and yet here we are pulling in an earnings growth that essentially takes that into account.
I think we all expect just picking that FX as an ongoing situation for next year but if you look at what we've done this year that indicates actually from an operating point of view we're ahead of the plan that we gave you.
So I'm not going to go farther because we have decisions to make about what we do year by year.
Richard Howard Jeff thanks so much.
Thanks Doug.
Amanda next question please.
Our next question is from Michael Morris from Guggenheim Partners.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning guys two questions.
One you significantly increased I think the amount of content you made available on a stacked in-season basis to Comcast.
Can you talk about why you did that based on what you saw in the past? What are the trends that you're seeing and what's your expectation for how you can capture incremental economics from making that available whether it's on the affiliate side the ad side or both? And then second with respect to the NBA this season I think the NBA is going to make out-of-market games available à la carte.
And it's not on television it's via broadband.
But still it is a step forward in people getting games.
How do you think about that product relative to the amount that you're investing in the national NBA contract? Thanks.
John will do the NBA but can you go back? Are you asking about stacking rights and the extent of stacking rights from either a network like Turner or from Warner Bros.? What was your question? So I think what I understand is that Turner has made in-season stacked rights more broadly available to Comcast in the coming year.
And there's a debate on whether that can cannibalize audience in the C3 window and therefore hurt your advertising whether you can capture more advertising and then of course whether or not you can capture and share in the value that the consumer gets through their payment to Comcast or other distributors.
We can speculate on that but I'd rather hear from you why you're doing it and what you see.
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for the question Mike.
I'll speak for Turner.
Maybe Kevin can comment from the Warner's side.
We at Turner have now for some time been very very much in favor of granting in-season stacking rights to distributors and affiliates for a number of reasons.
The first is we want to make sure that with respect to the original programming that we have on the network that we're encouraging people who want to view these shows on a delayed basis that they can come in in the middle of the season and catch up.
And we think it increases the probability of having successful shows and will drive overall viewership not only for the shows that are stacked but also the shows later on in the season that are being viewed live.
So we think that that can help the advertising business for the live linear feed.
And we also think Comcast for example probably the furthest along in the development of dynamic ad insertion we think dynamic ad insertion is a potential huge opportunity for us as network owners and for the industry at large as we think that delayed viewing as a currency will grow increasingly important over time.
So we intend to offer stacking rights on all the shows that we own and get rights for and we think it's just a really really smart thing to do.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> I think you can make – this is Kevin.
I think you can make the argument as John just did that it helps build the audience that it actually increases viewing in seasons two three four and five.
And I think from our perspective there's no diminution in the back-end value of programs that have stacking rights.
And therefore between Warner Bros.
and Turner we're licensing those rights over to Turner on every show we do with them.
With regard to the NBA this isn't anything new.
This is something that they announced when we announced the new deal which we at Turner were very much in favor of with respect to the NBA having the rights to do this.
We love the partnership that we have with the NBA.
We love the long-term visibility and sustainability that we have with respect to the rights.
But I think it's really really important to understand that the games that will appear on our networks are exclusive to our networks.
So you will not be seeing those games appear anywhere else other than on TNT.
And of course we're also in the business with the NBA on our digital businesses and we're a profit participant in that as well.
So I think what you're referring to is a reasonably limited out-of-market and I think it might even be potentially just a mobile product.
So we think for certain real basketball enthusiasts that will be particularly interesting but I don't necessarily believe it's going to be a mainstream product.
Great thanks guys.
Thanks Michael.
Amanda can we have our next question please? Our next question is from David Bank from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks very much for taking my question.
I guess I wanted to follow up on your comments earlier on the Turner Data Cloud and I guess probably more specifically for John what he and David [Levy] are doing in terms of their interest for ad tech at the Turner platform.
What kind of investments are you making? How are you thinking about it dynamic ad insertion as well as non-linear platforms? How do you see ad tech as a long-term value driver and how are you approaching it? Thank you.
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Thanks David.
Listen this is another area where we see huge opportunity going forward.
And I have to say this is an area – we're talking a lot about the impact that technology is having on consumption.
But I think technology is moving so quickly and it's going to have a dramatically positive impact on the efficacy of advertising on TV.
So you're right in the sense that we are making investments to strengthen our overall technology platform.
And you saw us introduce a number of advanced advertising products at this year's upfront a few months ago whether it's Targeting Now which allows an advertiser to optimize across TNT and TBS or a product called Audience Now which allows them to optimize across all Turner networks with audience guarantees.
So we're highly confident we're going to be able to more efficiently manage and monetize all of our inventory across all of Turner.
And it's one of the reasons why we wanted to present all of Turner in one meeting at the upfront because of the strength and the breadth of our brands.
We have a lot to learn as we move forward.
We're working with some of our biggest partners and we're roughly using 20% of our inventory for targeting but that's going to dramatically ramp in the future.
We're investing in technology.
We're investing in data.
We've come a long way over the last year.
And I think a lot of the capabilities that so-called digital companies have had an advantage of over TV are going to be eliminated as TV can not only provide targeting and increased reach and relevance but also in a very very immersive experience with long-form video that's professionally produced.
So I think we're in the very very early stages of seeing TV make a dramatic comeback on the attractiveness of advertising.
Have you seen – as you took Targeting Now into the marketplace at the upfront is there a way to quantify the upside on CPMs that you're seeing from beginning to monetize this stuff? Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> It's an easy question difficult to answer because it depends flight by flight.
But I think even in the upfront itself we've announced for those advertisers that we've run campaigns for that we've seen double-digit lifts in sales.
And that at the end of the day is what's really important is advertisers selling product.
Thanks very much.
Thanks David.
Amanda could we have our next question please? Our next question is from Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thank you good morning.
I have two questions.
Kevin can you talk about the age-old debate about Warner's position selling to the broadcasters? I think this year you guys actually saw some of your big customers own more of their own shows.
And I think there's some discussion in the market whether that's a structural change in the trajectory.
Warner has been really well positioned as an independent.
When you look at it do you think the world is changing more vertical integration or is this just a blip in the trend line? And then I have a follow-up for Richard.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> I think that we've seen this go up and down since the change in the Fin-Syn [Financial Interest and Syndication] rules over time.
This is not a new concept with the networks wanting to own more and more of their programming.
But I think the key statistic that I would ask you to look at is for us is returning shows.
And this year we have more returning shows in 20 than in the history of Warner Bros.
So while we may not have sold as many shows into the marketplace as we would have typically have done we have more shows coming back than ever.
The pressure is always going to be on us to maintain our level of creative excellence.
But as we look at last year when we had two of the most successful shows in The Flash and Gotham we feel really good about our position in the marketplace our relationships with the key writer-producers.
That maintains our ability to be able to sell to every network.
We're very proud of the fact that we have at least two shows on every single network.
And as I said we have more shows coming back than ever.
That makes sense.
And then for Richard and I don't know Jeff if you want to answer as well when you scenario plan out HBO over the long term do you ever think about what a significant increase in content investment would do globally to the business? In other words I think you spend about $2 billion a year.
Is there a business model where that number doubles and you go big global more direct to consumer? Is there enough content out there to make it worth that kind of investment? I realize you have guidance so you've got to work through all those pieces.
But I'm just wondering given how rapidly the world is changing do you ever think about what HBO could do if there's an opportunity to just get much more aggressive on the content side to build the long-term value of the business? I'd be curious if you have any comments there.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> We're always thinking about content opportunities and it's one of the reasons internationally why we've invested a lot more in content both in Latin America and Asia and with our partners.
And remember some of our content for our international business like in Nordic is joined with other people's content that helps enhance the brand.
As far as our content spend here I like our mix a lot.
I think across genres you just saw 126 Emmy nominations which one of the most important things about that is that it crossed different genres documentaries mini-series series half-hours hours.
So I like our spend.
We're constantly looking at what opportunities there are.
As I've said over and over again and I think it's true it's not that more is better only better is better.
And so we want to make sure that we're making the investment that's going to elevate the brand and that's going to continue to make an HBO subscription a must-have for people so that's how we think at it.
Let me add a little because I join Richard in HBO from the past.
I don't think there's a shortage of content on HBO right now.
If you look at the amount of original series original programming on HBO there's more than in any other SVOD service in the world by a wide margin.
That's before you say that there's also a first-run movie supply on HBO.
That's a tremendous part.
Richard you've said it's how much what percent? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> It's over 70% of it.
So you've got an SVOD service that's digital global it's called HBO it's got the most original programming.
It's the only one with current movies so it's got a big content advantage over most of the other alternatives.
The next thing if you start looking at sub growth at HBO you have the fact that some of the distributors have twice the penetration of other distributors.
That has nothing to do with content.
That has to do with marketing selling packaging making things available to consumers both here and around the world in a way that's affordable to them that has a good VOD interface for them.
That is equally true of basic cable which has a tremendous content advantage.
If you look at the original shows or the hit acquired shows on channels like TBS TNT FX USA AMC it's a fantastic array of programming and all it needs is to be on-demand.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Amanda I think we have time for one last question.
Yes sir.
Our final question comes from the line of Marci Ryvicker from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
I actually have a really easy one for you.
You mentioned in your opening remarks that HBO India is being transferred to Turner.
Is there a reason for that? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> That's not true.
It's the management of it.
It's just scale.
It's just scale.
It's just we're co-marketing it and co-distributing -- Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> It's to be more efficient with our resources and management and its scale in the marketplace.
Exactly.
And so what's the financial impact between the two segments? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> I don't know off the top of my head.
I don't think it's over -- Howard do you know? It's low tens of millions of dollars over the course of the year against HBO.
Got it.
Okay thanks.
Thanks Marci.
Thanks Amanda.
Thank you everybody for joining us today.
We look forward to hearing your questions in the coming days as well.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does include the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Welcome to the Time Warner Inc.
third quarter 2015 earnings call.
My name is Ashley and I'll be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we'll conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President-Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Time Warner's third quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued two press releases one detailing our results for the third quarter and the other reaffirming our 2015 full year business outlook.
Before we begin there are two items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our website.
Second today's announcements include certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to Jeff Bewkes Time Warner's Chairman and CEO who will be followed by Howard Averill Time Warner's CFO.
After their prepared remarks our divisional CEOs John Martin Richard Plepler and Kevin Tsujihara will join us for our Q&amp;A session.
Jeff? Thanks Mike and thanks everyone for listening in this morning.
As you can see from our results we had another very good quarter.
Revenues increased 5% $6.6 billion.
We posted strong growth in adjusted operating income which totaled $1.8 billion.
That translated into adjusted EPS of $1.25 per share.
That's a record third quarter for the company.
And we returned over $1.5 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
This continues our track record of delivering industry-leading performance while also positioning the company for a world where viewers consume an increasing amount of content on demand and on multiple platforms and devices.
And that's a world in which brands need to thrive both inside and outside the traditional TV ecosystem.
We've been doing that by leveraging our strong brands global scale and distinctive IP to produce content that resonates deeply with consumers and will become even more valuable on this environment.
We've also been a leader in enhancing the value of the traditional TV bundle for consumers making more content available on demand and on a growing array of devices.
More recently we've been strategically expanding outside the traditional TV ecosystem to tap into new growth opportunities and we're executing these strategies across the globe while at the same time remaining laser-focused on operational and capital efficiency.
The result has been a total shareholder return of 180% since the beginning of 2008 well above our peer average and more than double the S&amp;P 500.
To continue performing at those levels in the future however it's critical that we push on the accelerator because every day it becomes clearer that the trends we anticipated are happening and in some ways they're happening even faster than we expected.
These changes create challenges for our business but they also produce many opportunities for us.
And our goal is to use our unmatched combination of scale brands and distinctive IP to capitalize on these trends so that our businesses are even more relevant more competitive and profitable five to 10 years from now than they are today.
That means moving even more aggressively to execute our strategy by making investments for the long run.
This is a formative time in media; a time when industry leaders for the next decade and beyond are being established.
And I believe those companies with the resources and will to invest will thrive and those that don't will falter.
So it's important our primary focus be on long-term competitive position and growth rather than near-term profitability.
So with that as a background I'd like to provide an update on our 2016 financial targets.
We have not yet finished our budget and long range planning process but we're far enough along that we can identify and size some changes to our expectations that together suggest adjusted EPS is more likely to be around $5.25 next year.
I'll give you some context on those changes and Howard will provide more detail in his remarks.
But at current rates we estimate the impact of foreign exchange on next year would be similar to this year.
That's around $0.50 per share accounting for the significant majority of the change in our expectations.
Beyond FX movements there are areas where we've outperformed our expectation and other areas that have been more challenging.
More important we have also identified additional investments and other key decisions that will weigh on earnings in the near term but that we think will drive long-term growth.
Programming remains by far the most significant area of investment for the company.
As you all know we have plans to invest aggressively in content in 2016 and beyond.
And an increasing part of that investment will be directed towards brands and IP that we think will resonate with consumers on new platforms.
HBO's investments in John Stewart Bill Simmons Sesame Street and its expanded VICE relationship are all great examples.
Turner's partnership with WME | IMG to form an e-sports league that will air on TBS is another example and there are many more to come.
But having great content is no longer enough.
Content has become just one element of the broader consumer experience.
And while we are living in the golden age of television programming for many consumers the television viewing experience is stuck in the Bronze Age.
So we're stepping up our investment and providing the best possible consumer experiences.
For instance we plan to increase our investments in new digital products and infrastructure so that we can meet consumer demand for video outside traditional TV and compete effectively across platforms.
That includes new broadband delivered initiatives targeted at millennials such as HBO NOW CNN's start up Great Big Story and TBS's new digital studio Super Deluxe.
It also includes investments like Turner's majority stake in iStreamPlanet a leading platform for live streaming.
And we'll continue to build out data and analytics capabilities both as the engine of our industry leading advanced advertising product and to inform our marketing our digital products and even some of our content development itself.
It also means delivering even more value to consumers especially those who subscribe to the traditional bundle.
As you know our company has led the industry in making our content available to consumers on an on-demand basis.
Given ongoing shifts in consumer behavior we think it's important to provide even more on-demand content as part of our network offerings.
As a result we're evaluating whether to retain our rights for a longer period of time and forego or delay certain content licensing.
This would effectively push the SVOD window for content on our networks to a multiyear period more consistent with traditional syndication.
In our efforts to improve the consumer experience on our networks we're also looking for opportunities to reduce our ad loads.
Just last week we announced that truTV will cut its ad load in half for prime time original shows starting late next year.
Over time we think a better viewing experience will help drive higher viewership and enhance the value proposition of our networks.
Now as I've said before I think now is the time for us to press our advantages and I'm confident these investments in content capabilities and the consumer experience will position us for continued strong growth in the years to come.
And I'm confident because we're operating from a position of strength which was evident once again in this quarter's results.
So let's look at this quarter turning first to Warner Brothers which increased its revenues by 15% led by continued strength in television and video games.
Already the top supplier of broadcast television programming Warners has the two biggest new shows on broadcast this fall with Blindspot and Supergirl.
Supergirl launched last week and represents one of eight Warner shows on television this season based on our DC Entertainment library joining already established hits such as The Flash Arrow and Gotham.
DC's IP was also a significant contributor to our video games business which through the end of the third quarter is the number one U.S.
publisher this year.
And at the end of the third quarter we launched LEGO Dimensions which counts Lego Batman and many of its DC counterparts among its cast of characters.
We think it's going to be a big hit this holiday season and the next big game franchise for Warners.
On the movie side the countdown has started for March's blockbuster Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice which will be followed by the buzz-generating screen version of DC's Suicide Squad.
DC is a key part of Warner's growth strategy and in recent years has had tremendous success in both television and games.
The next stage of growth for DC will be in film which is also a critical driver in our plans to further expand our consumer products business.
At Turner TBS's coverage of Major League Baseball playoffs was the most watched postseason ever for the network growing close to 50% over last year's coverage.
And the NBA on TNT one of our other key sports properties got off to a great start last week with viewership of its opening night doubleheader growing almost 25% over a year ago.
The continued strength of our sports lineup has helped make TBS and TNT the number one and number four cable networks in primetime year-to-date respectively and that's a great position to have ahead of the rebrands we'll be rolling out for each of those networks next year.
We're optimistic these rebrands will have a similar impact over time as the changes we made at CNN and Cartoon Network.
In the third quarter CNN continued to grow prime time ratings across all key demographics up 39% and 35% for adults 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 respectively.
CNN's reach has never been more apparent than during its recent record setting coverage of the Republican and Democratic presidential debates and CNN continued to build its digital presence with the recently launched Great Big Story.
That's a distinctive independent mobile focused news brand aimed at millennial audiences.
It's one of the many examples of how we're innovating outside the traditional TV ecosystem.
Cartoon also continued to gain share ending the third quarter as the number one ad-supported cable network with kids 6 to 11 for the second consecutive quarter.
Even more impressive it was the number one network in VODacross broadcast and cable in July and August.
Adult swim also shined brightly finishing as ad-supported cable's number one total day network among adults 18 to 34 for the 30th consecutive quarter.
That's an impressive run.
Turning to HBO it was another strong quarter for the global leader in print and subscription video.
In September HBO received a record 43 primetime Emmy awards.
That's the most of any network for the 14th consecutive year.
That included best drama for Game of Thrones and best comedy for Veep.
In total Game of Thrones was the recipient of 12 awards and that's a record for a series in one year.
So with HBO NOW HBO is at the forefront of marrying the very best content with a next generation consumer experience.
While it's very early and we have a lot of work ahead of us the early results for HBO NOW point to a significant long-term opportunity.
To take full advantage of that opportunity we'll continue to expand our line-up of both distribution partners and supported devices for the HBO service.
On that front HBO NOW recently added Roku to its lineup of distributors and we added support for Google's Chromecast and Amazon's Fire TV.
HBO is also expanding its content lineup to leverage its growing multi-platform presence.
And yesterday we announced that John Stewart will be joining the HBO family with a particular focus on providing content for our broadband platforms.
Over time we expect to expand the distribution of standalone HBO streaming services to many more territories around the world.
For example HBO Latin America recently announced plans to offer a standalone streaming version of HBO to Latin American and Caribbean broadband consumers.
The service will launch in Columbia before the end of the year and subsequently expand to other territories in the region.
So we're just getting started and I think you can see that we continue to execute at a very high level across the company.
We're moving quickly and decisively to take advantage of changes in technology and consumer behavior and I'm confident the investments we're making in content capabilities and in the consumer experience will further strengthen our competitive position solidify our long-term growth prospects and enable us to continue providing industry-leading returns to our shareholders for many years to come.
Now let me turn it over to Howard so he can take you through the financials in greater detail.
Howard? Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'd like to start by providing some additional context for the comments Jeff made on our 2016 targets.
As Jeff noted and I want to emphasize we're still working through our budget process and we plan to provide our 2016 outlook when we report 4Q earnings.
Thanks.
(15:56) But as we stand today we have visibility on and want to share a number of items affecting 2016 including investment decisions we're in the process of making.
By far the most significant factor is FX which at current rates we expect to have a similar impact at this year or a drag of approximately $0.50 on adjusted EPS compared to our expectations when we put our plan in place last year.
Beyond that there are some parts of the business where we're tracking below and other areas we're outperforming our expectations compared to the plan we presented at our investor day.
In terms of operational headwinds similar to the rest of the industry ratings at our key domestic entertainment networks have declined to a greater degree than we anticipated a year ago and that will negatively affect ad revenue next year.
In addition since the end of 2014 subscribers at Turner's domestic networks have declined approximately 1% beyond what our outlook had assumed and we're assuming declines continue at a similar rate in 2016.
On the positive side our cost savings efforts are running ahead of plan and we remain focused on executing our efficiency initiatives and constraining overhead expenses.
At CNN and Cartoon Network ratings continue to be very strong and that's driving upside to our advertising expectations for those businesses.
At Warner Brothers our video games business is having a record year in 2015 and we see opportunities to continue to grow this business.
So despite difficult year-over-year comparisons we expect to outperform our initial video games expectations for next year.
And finally excluding FX growth across our international businesses remains strong.
Overall the impact from operational headwinds not including FX and the benefit from improved performance in the areas I just walked through are roughly similar in size each running several hundred million dollars.
Beyond those changes we have also identified some additional investments we believe are critical to our long-term success.
We recognize the video eco-system is rapidly evolving and strongly believe this is the time to press our advantage.
So as Jeff noted we've decided to invest even more aggressively in our businesses with a focus on content capabilities and enhancing the consumer experience.
And while we're still evaluating the size those investments could run into the hundreds of millions of dollars.
Taking into account those additional investments we think 2016 adjusted EPS is more likely to be around $5.25 but as I mentioned we're still working through our budget process.
So other factors could influence our outlook to either the upside or downside.
Looking beyond 2016 we're in the very early stages of updating our long-range plan.
But I would point out the FX drag I noted earlier will carry through into future years and that means we don't expect to be over $8 in adjusted EPS in 2018 at this point.
Even so we're excited about the progress we are making on some of the upside opportunities we discussed with you previously and we think the investments we're making to enhance the consumer experience will be a critical point of differentiation for the company.
So we're very confident we can grow these businesses at industry leading levels in the years to come.
Now let me turn to the third quarter results.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide of our presentation which is now available on our website.
As you'll recall last year's third quarter results were affected by significant restructuring and severance charges across the company and programming charges at Turner.
Given the nature and size of these items my comments today related to expenses margins and adjusted operating income for the third quarter and year-to-date periods will exclude these charges from all periods.
Starting with consolidated results we had another strong quarter and were really pleased with our performance year to date.
Through the first three quarters of the year revenues increased 6% and adjusted operating income grew 13% and we've achieved that while continuing to execute on our strategic objectives and laying the groundwork for future growth.
In the third quarter revenues grew 5% or 10% excluding a drag of almost 500 basis points from FX.
Adjusted operating income increased 13% with margins expanding about 200 basis points.
That reflects our continued cost discipline as we held total expense growth at 2% in the quarter.
That included a 6% reduction in SG&amp;A due to savings from the restructuring actions taken last year and ongoing cost controls as well as a decline in equity compensation resulting from the movement in our stock price.
Moving down the income statement adjusted EPS was $1.25 compared to $1.22 in the prior year quarter and increased almost 30% when excluding last year's charges and benefit from a tax settlement.
During the quarter we repurchased over $1.2 billion in shares and paid $285 million in dividends.
In year to date we've returned almost $4.2 billion to shareholders.
This morning we reaffirmed our guidance for 2015 adjusted EPS to be in the range of $4.60 to $4.70 and that's despite a foreign currency drag of approximately $0.45 to $0.50 which is above our previous estimate due primarily to the recent weakening of certain currencies in Latin America.
So we feel really good about how we're operating and we remain on track for another year of very attractive adjusted EPS growth.
Now turning to the segment highlights.
I'll start at Turner where we are encouraged by the improvement in advertising trends and we posted another quarter of profit growth despite significant FX headwinds.
Year-to-date Turner has grown adjusted operating income a very strong 16%.
Subscription revenues declined 1% in the quarter but increased around 4% when looking through the impact of foreign exchange and last year's benefit from certain domestic contractual settlements.
Domestic subscription revenues grew low single digits.
Subscriber losses were a modest headwind to growth in the quarter and were consistent with what we saw in the first half of the year declining around 1.5% on average.
Absent a drag of more than 20 percentage points from FX international subscription revenue was up low double digits with the biggest gains again coming from Latin America.
Looking to the fourth quarter we expect a net negative impact of approximately 300 basis points on total subscription revenue growth from the combination of continued FX headwinds and the benefit from the comparisons to last year's carriage dispute with Dish.
And with higher pricing set at nine of our top 10 distributors we remain on track for domestic subscription revenue growth to accelerate into the low teens in 2016 and to grow at a similar rate in 2017.
Moving on advertising declined 1% but was up 3% when excluding FX and the impact from the absence of NASCAR programming.
Domestic advertising was flat in the quarter.
International advertising grew in the low double digits absent an FX drag of over 20 percentage points and the benefit from the consolidation of our sports network in Brazil.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect a net drag of close to 250 basis points as a result of the impact of FX headwinds partially offset by the positive comparison to last year's carriage dispute with Dish and the benefit from airing three additional major league baseball playoff games this year.
At the same time scatter pricing has been very healthy pacing up strong double digits versus the upfront.
And putting those factors together we anticipate total advertising revenue to be up low single digits in the quarter.
Looking at our costs we reduced expenses by 7% and margins expanded over 250 basis points helped by lower programming costs and SG&amp;A.
Programming expenses were down 9% primarily due to the absence of NASCAR.
SG&amp;A declined 6% reflecting our continued focus on cost efficiencies as well as savings from last year's restructuring actions.
In the fourth quarter excluding the charges from last year we anticipate programming cost growth to be up about 20% due to major league baseball and the timing of original programming on TNT.
A significant portion of the increase from higher MLB stems from the additional games and the significant growth in ratings and advertising during the playoffs which pulled additional rights amortization into the quarter.
We also expect higher marketing expenses associated with our originals.
As a result adjusted operating income excluding charges should be down significantly in the fourth quarter.
As we approach the rebrands of TBS and TNT we're also evaluating the fit of certain programming we currently air.
To the extent we decide not to use the programming in the future that could result in charges during the fourth quarter though nothing close to the magnitude we saw in 2014.
Even so Turner remains on track for another year of solid growth in adjusted operating income.
At the same time we're continuing to make the investments necessary to position us for long-term success.
Turning now to HBO where we continue to see very strong demand for the product in the form of both subscriber growth and content licensing.
Domestic subscription revenue growth was in the mid-single digits and consistent with the last several quarters a shift toward non-revenue-generating subs was a constraint on revenue growth.
As we expected HBO NOW's contribution to sub revenue increased from last quarter; however it's still very much in its infancy as both a product and a business.
Over time we expect NOW to be a more significant revenue contributor as we launch on additional platforms and continue to invest in the product.
Moving on content and other revenues grew 13%.
That was mainly from the domestic licensing of a library series.
Adjusted operating income was up 21%.
That was helped by a 3% decline in total expenses despite investments in marketing and technology related to HBO NOW.
Programming costs fell 6% due to lower theatrical expenses.
So HBO is on track for another year of good growth in adjusted operating income and given the strong global demand for our content and the investments we're making in programming and with HBO NOW we feel HBO is well positioned to deliver attractive financial results over the long term.
Moving on to Warner Brothers where we continue to benefit from the diversity of Warner's businesses.
In the quarter revenue increased 15% and adjusted operating income was up a strong 36%.
And that's despite a material drag from FX.
Television revenues increased over 20% due to strong growth in licensing fees and that was mainly due to the domestic licensing of 2 Broke Girls and Person of Interest.
Meanwhile Warners continued its record year in video games with revenues more than tripling for the second consecutive quarter.
That was led by the releases of LEGO Dimensions and Mad Max as well as continued strong sales from our franchise titles Mortal Kombat X and Batman: Arkham Knight.
These are a few examples of how we can leverage the great IP and franchises at Warners and games and why we see a very attractive long-term opportunity for this business.
Across theatrical and TV home video revenues were down 7% in the quarter in line with industry trends.
At the same time digital trends remain healthy with EST up double digits for Warners and the industry.
Overall Warner Brothers had a great quarter and remains on pace for a record year of adjusted operating income in 2015.
And with the healthy trends in our TV business a growing video games presence and an ambitious theatrical slate that kicks off next year we're confident Warners can continue to grow at attractive levels in the years to come.
Turning to the next slide free cash flow totaled $2.9 billion in the first nine months of the year.
That's up from a year ago due to growth in adjusted operating income as well as lower cash taxes partially offset by a significant swing in working capital.
The growth in working capital reflects higher receivables from increased TV licensing revenues severance payments related to last year's restructuring initiatives and increased content investments across our divisions.
Our cash taxes declined primarily due to the timing of favorable tax legislation and related payments.
And given healthy conversions so far this year we're on track for another year of very strong free cash flow generation.
Now looking at our balance sheet we ended the third quarter with $21.2 billion of net debt up almost $1.4 billion from the end of 2014.
That's mostly due to the approximately $3.9 billion we returned to shareholders in the first nine months through share repurchases and dividends.
Since our last earnings call we redeemed the over $300 million in debt that remained outstanding on our 2016 notes after our tender offer earlier this year.
And on the M&amp;A front we've invested $344 million so far this year.
That includes Turner's investment in iStreamPlanet in the third quarter and that's a great example of the kind of tuck-in acquisition we have prioritized in recent years and that remains our focus.
Our net leverage ratio at the end of the quarter was approximately 2.7 times; however excluding programming restructuring and severance charges from the fourth quarter of 2014 our leverage ratio would have been 2.64 times slightly below our target leverage of 2.75 times.
As we look forward we do not anticipate a change in either our target leverage or our capital allocation philosophy which will remain focused on investments back into our businesses targeted M&amp;A and consistent direct returns to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
With that let's move on to the final slide which looks at our outlook for 2015.
We're really pleased with how we're executing across our business and with our strong financial results through the first nine months of the year.
Given our strong year-to-date results I want to provide some additional context on our 2015 outlook for adjusted EPS which we continue to expect to be in the range of $4.60 to $4.70.
As I mentioned earlier that includes an FX headwind of approximately $0.45 to $0.50 based on current rates.
Looking through that FX headwind our outlook implies over 20% growth off last year's base of $4.15.
Midpoint of our outlook suggests adjusted EPS will be down slightly in the fourth quarter when compared to the $0.98 we reported in the fourth quarter of last year.
That's mainly due to investments across our networks' businesses that we've previously discussed with you including further technology and marketing investments related to HBO NOW and significantly higher programming and marketing costs at Turner.
Meanwhile at Warner Brothers we have difficult theatrical release comparisons an unfavorable mix of costs related to investments in content at video games and TV and we continue to face material FX headwinds but overall we're very pleased with our performance this year and we're on track for our seventh consecutive year of double-digit growth in adjusted EPS.
And we believe the investments we're making will both strengthen our position inside the traditional TV ecosystem and allow us to take advantage of the growing opportunities outside of it.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike to start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Howard.
Ashley can you please open up the queue for Q&amp;A? Thank you.
Our first question comes from Michael Nathanson of MoffettNathanson.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I have one for Jeff and one for Richard.
Jeff in your comments you talked about pushing out your SVOD windows on cable network content to longer syndication time frames.
So can you talk about how you expect them to monetize that content? Will it be through heavier advertising or license fees? And then for Richard given Jeff's comments on that how do you think about the HBO Amazon relationship where you've sold a lot of library content and do you want to bring that back onto the HBO NOW platform because that's where your brand is? So those are my questions.
Thanks Michael.
It's Jeff.
I'll start.
First I think all of us know that for shows that premier on either broadcast or cable channels the biggest monetization support by far is the carriage fee plus the advertising for – that supports either a big bundle or a streamlined bundle.
If you then go to the aftermarkets syndication SVOD et cetera if we're talking about SVOD which we also all know drives a much smaller subscription revenue and it has limited or no ad revenue it's pretty clear that that offers less monetization support in general for the quality and diversity of programming that we've all gotten used to seeing on the dial.
So we think a lot about how to enhance the value of the traditional pay TV bundle and it's something we're obviously looking at at our networks.
Historically the syndication window was four years after the original air date.
And that whether it went to syndication over the air whether it went to cable basics that was supported by subscription revenue it was supported by advertising.
More recently we've seen most serialized content move towards one-year windows.
Let's just take our HBO deal and Richard's going to speak to it given your question the Amazon deal has a three-year window.
So we'll continue to evaluate and see what window works best for different types of content: the pay TV originals the broadcast premiers the cable premiers.
And we'll look very carefully at the health of our networks and all of Warner's network partners to make sure that we optimize the value of content to provide support for the diversity of what you're seeing today.
And we all need to consider that the shift in viewing to digital platform suggests that consumers often don't mind waiting a year for certain content if that's the way that it's offered.
So you look at the basic cable networks and they compete with services like HBO Netflix et cetera all of which the HBOs the Netflixes they have long-term exclusivity for their shows.
So we're still evaluating what it would look like but it could mean adjusting the window somewhat as I said in my prepared remarks today.
Also let's go to international.
It's a big source of support for programming.
It's a very interesting example of how it could work.
And if you take the example like Netflix is doing some smart things entering a number of territories.
It's aggressively bidding for syndicated content and what you see is that in those territories we see incumbent distributors bid for second window rights not just first window rights.
They're of course supported by subscription fees advertising et cetera.
So this increased competition is driving demand for great TV content it's benefiting Warner Brothers it's a rapidly evolving ecosystem not just here but overseas and we expect change and innovation to continue.
So that's why we're thinking about this.
I do want to emphasize that what you're hearing today from us is hopefully you'll hear a very confident position and we're quite resolved to deal and benefit in the long term because we think the focus of our basic and pay TV networks is an advantage.
We think we're going to be in whichever bundles are out there streamlined or launched and we think these moves are very important to secure the long term growth and we think it's all going to work.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Michael it's Richard.
Look as you know a large percentage of Amazon Prime subs were not HBO subs.
And we thought it was a terrific way -it's a three-year-old window it's just made clear.
We thought it was just a great way for people to have a chance to sample our programming to have the HBO experience and we think that was a catalyst to driving people to subscribing.
It's been a terrific relationship.
We're now as you know expanding our relationship have expanded our relationship with Amazon on the Amazon Fire and we like it because we think it exposes HBO to more people and drives them to the network.
So we think it's been a positive thing.
Okay.
Thanks Jeff.
Thanks Richard.
Thanks Michael.
Ashley can we have the next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Janedis of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
I just wanted to clarify your comments on programming investment.
Does this mean you're investing beyond the original guidance? And understanding it's early in the budgeting process if it is can you size it? And is the increase largely at HBO or across all of your properties? And then maybe more broadly has the cost to monetize a viewer increased meaningfully for the industry? Thanks.
This is Howard.
First of all I would note that the investments they aren't primarily programming.
So I'm not going to drill into the details of the individual items but most of the investments we're making are in those capabilities around digital technology infrastructure.
Now there is some incremental spend that's related to programming and that's been done at HBO and that's in line with those areas that we discussed earlier which are Sesame Street VICE Bill Simmons and Jon Stewart.
But again clearly mostly on a consumer experience and capability side.
Okay.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Yeah John it's Richard.
Look all the investments in programming that you've read about in the last six months obviously we think are not only additive to HBO NOW and HBO GO but to the brand itself.
And we're very excited about what that portends for the future and for new subs and for new millennial subs particularly.
So these investments were incremental but they're incremental obviously to drive revenue in the future.
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> And John it's John Martin.
Just to add a quick point from Turner's perspective the investments that we're considering are really mostly outside of the programming arena as we already have a lot of scale in programming but we're investing in new businesses building new brands and as Howard said new capabilities.
We acquired iStreamPlanet a premier live streaming company.
We just launched out of CNN Great Big Story.
We announced recently that we're spanning up the league in partnership with WME and IMG in e-sports which is a hugely exciting area.
We just launched an internal comedy focused digital business called Super Deluxe.
We've got Bleacher that we want to expand.
We've got the number one OTT sports service in Brazil called Esporte Interativo which we're also investing in and Cartoon Network and Adult Swim building new businesses outside of the ecosystem.
So...
Thanks.
And maybe one quick related question just on the potential programming write-downs Howard.
I think there was a bit of a shift to younger skewing programming on a going-forward basis.
As so as you look at what may not be working is that the program you've already purchased in syndication or maybe yet to be a programming that may not find an audience? Look overall the rebrands for TNT and TBS are making that move to the more distinctive younger skewing programs but we're evaluating programs but I would say that what we're talking about is around the edges and it's not anywhere near the magnitude of what we talked about in the past.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Ashley next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alexia Quadrani of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
My question's on Turner.
You highlighted the sub declines as one of the headwinds in the business.
Now having completed the majority of your renewals and I know you're not going to talk specifically about any one renewal but can you maybe talk generally if protections or minimums are part of those renewal discussions? And then just sort of staying on Turner my second part of my question is on your commentary on the reduced ad load I guess where are we in terms of what has been announced or done so far and where do you think we need to be? Maybe you can elaborate on the puts and takes in that decision how much of it pricing what do you get assuming it's enough to offset the ad line declines over time? Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Thank you Alexia.
Two pretty broad questions.
Let me see if I can get through them quickly.
On the subscription revenue side we are quite pleased with the position that we're in right now and quite confident in our ability to continue to drive very very strong subscription revenue growth.
I think you were probably referring to the domestic side.
We've now completed nine of ten deals where we have absolutely 100% achieved the rate increases that we were seeking.
We're confident that we will complete the remaining deal in reasonably short order.
All of our contracts have certain penetration protections that give us additional confidence but I do want to just comment for one second with respect to the declines in the subscribers in the United States.
In the prior quarters and in other forms we've said that we've been planning for declines to continue.
We don't anticipate that they're going to be material.
We continue to still believe that.
What we're doing now is we're starting to just as we're planning for next year we're going to assume that the rate of decline is similar to this year although in an encouraging way the traditional distributors who have reported third quarter earnings most of them if not all of them have reported improvements year-over-year and some distributors the best third quarters that they had in years.
In addition we are in talks with numerous interested parties to potentially launch OTT services.
And as Jeff said we would fully anticipate participating in those bundles with the portfolio of networks that we have.
So I think as you look out on the horizon there's reason to be really confident and optimistic that we could even stem losses altogether and maybe even get back to a position of growth in the United States.
On the ad load side we announced recently which was a first for us that we were going to take truTV and provide an enhanced viewing experience beginning next year that will essentially provide for 21% more programming.
And in some respects we're starting with truTV we're going to learn a lot.
I think as Jeff said the consumer experience is increasingly important.
We're transforming Turner to focus solely first and foremost on the consumer where the consumer's going and what that experience is going to be.
When we think about the ad clutter that we have on our networks I'm comfortable with where we are for the most part but I think tru is going to be a very very interesting experiment to see whether it actually will make a difference with respect to the viewing experience.
And we don't anticipate it will have really any revenue impact with respect to that network.
So we're going to continue to pay very close attention to this.
We care deeply about the experiences that we provide our consumers with our brands and we'll be providing more updates as we get into next year.
Thank you.
Thanks Alexia.
Ashley next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Doug Mitchelson of UBS.
Your line is open.
Oh thanks so much.
So one for Howard and one for Jeff.
Just doing the math Howard guidance of almost $6.00 call it $5.90 $0.50 of currency takes you to $5.40.
You're saying preliminarily $5.25 so that incremental $0.15 of investment's about $150 million to $200 million of EBITDA investment versus what you might have thought at the Analyst Day.
So do I have that math right? And then Jeff I guess it's sort of interesting right? Perhaps the issue around SVOD rights demonstrates that Warner Brothers and HBO have different profit maximization strategic priorities than Turner.
Are the synergies among these three still sufficient or does it make more sense to have Turner and Warner's HBO separate at this point given the dynamics you guys were talking about today? Thank you.
Thank you Doug.
Yes in terms of the outlook that we talked about it is as you point out mostly FX and it is mostly investments but keep in mind it is early in the process.
There are things that we need to work through.
But we do expect it to be in that range and we're confident about that.
Yeah on your question for – I don't think it's true and maybe you could ask a follow-up as to whether the profit maximization aims or needs of Warner or Turner or HBO are different.
That's basic cable premium and then producers of shows that are sold both to broadcast cable and pay TV.
So I don't think there's any benefit to what you're saying in any kind of separation.
In fact I think because we've now gotten our businesses with those three into the ones that we think work best together both in strategic planning in global distribution in global sourcing of leading projects meaning attracting creators whether film TV shows et cetera these are huge advantages for Time Warner.
And what we're all talking about including all of your questions are how to take the obviously successful history of bundles which have very high penetration not just in the United States but everywhere and have a significant amount of ad support and how to evolve all of them into more VOD better guide and interface.
And the programming some of which goes for premium not ad supported some of which belongs in an ad supported environment but in a evolved ad environment all of that still holds true.
And I think what you're seeing now in the evolution of streamlined bundles and new distributors is more opportunity on a global basis to make all this program production and network branding more engaged and more relevant.
So we wouldn't split any of this up.
We think it belongs together and it gives us an advantage relative to our competitors.
Thank you that's helpful.
If I could just ask one -yep thanks.
I was just going to clarify Doug.
As I talked about there's still a lot of moving pieces including stuff that's below the line but your math does make sense; with respect to the investments could be in that range.
It would be helpful just a clarification thank you for all that from John.
Are sub declines this 1% below budgets are sub declines accelerating during this year or is this just reflective the change in guidance reflective of the trends that have been in place the last few quarters? Yeah we're not seeing an acceleration.
It's just the trends are continuing.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Doug.
Ashley can we have the next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Rich Greenfield of BTIG Financial Services.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Really I'd love to get Jeff's view.
You gave your manifesto on looking at the whole world of media several years ago and I guess as you think about direct to consumer businesses you've led a path with HBO but you really haven't done it for Turner.
And I'm just wondering one what's stopping you from literally launching your own everything Time Warner? Forget even about just Turner but everything Time Warner direct to consumer at X price and keeping SVOD rights? And then if that's not attractive or that's not something you're going to do as you think about – you chose earlier this year to sell content to Hulu.
Why is Hulu better? Because I was surprised that you all allowed in your contracts Hulu to be ad free given that I thought Hulu the benefit was it protected the ad model.
And so why is Hulu better choice versus any of the other SVOD platforms? Okay.
Thanks Rich.
That's a good and complicated question.
I'll start with the HBO then Turner and basic cable which tends to go in a bundle.
If you take the point let's start with premium branded services like an HBO Showtime Netflix.
For a long time at HBO I think more than 15 years has had a VOD service.
And therefore all of the programming the original programming et cetera that's on HBO is all there and it's quite successful just as it is at Netflix or Showtime.
Now it is true if you stay with HBO to your question that when we sold or licensed some syndicated window product three years old to Amazon all of which is still on HBO what we're giving is consumers more choice and doing a sampling reach for HBO with Amazon and Amazon Fire subscribers that allows HBO to get a trial so they can see older programming and then sign on to the current service.
Those kinds of things make sense for premium networks.
And then go to your question on basic networks like Turner or pick a broadcast network.
Those are typically premieres often once-a-week shows across the dial whether it's broadcast or cable and most consumers are used to getting those in a bundle whether the bundle has to be 100 networks whether it's the 30 50 or 10 that a consumer chooses which I think over time they'll have more choice to be able to do.
If we took the course you're suggesting and it's worth thinking about of course.
Take say the Turner networks and put them on their own you do have some questions of distribution of coverage of ad support which it may not be the best way to premiere a range of basic cable networks.
And remember most of the distributors out there don't have the really strong ability to support an offering like that.
That could emerge but it's not here now.
And then specifically on Hulu? On why Hulu would be better than any of the others since it now has ad-free or why you allowed an ad-free? Well I'll start.
Kevin may want to – no matter who we license to it's important that we focus on maximizing the value of our content across all distribution platforms and key point across all windows in time.
That includes continuing to evaluate what window works best for different types of content.
Half hour comedies are different than serialized dramas.
And when considering the best partner there are many different considerations beyond just the price.
For example I think as you referenced Hulu established advertising has value by charging additionally or two levels depending whether a consumer has ads or not.
The question of whether it's a sufficient charge for the ads remains to be seen.
But we think competition on ad spot providers not just the ones like Amazon Netflix Hulu but as you go around the world you have a combination of pure SVOD guys you have SVOD services from incumbent broadcasters.
It's becoming a fairly rich competition.
It's good for consumers it's good for content value and we think we'll arrive at the right mix.
I think if your underlying point is that it doesn't make a lot of sense to sell programming to a given distribution model let's call it a bundle with a fair amount of subscription support and advertising support and then you sell it to a method of distribution that has less realistic ad and subscription support that would clearly not be a sustainable thing for either content production or networks over the long term.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> This is Kevin.
I think from a Warner Brothers perspective it's clear that maintaining the integrity and health of the ecosystem is critical to maximizing the long-term value of the content.
And therefore I think as Jeff said we're constantly evaluating the right methods the right distributors the right partners first to monetize our content both domestically and globally.
Thanks Rich.
Thank you.
Ashley could we have our next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ben Swinburne of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Howard is the new earnings outlook which I know is preliminary for 2016 inclusive of this SVOD delay or forego decision or is that further out? And then Richard can the HBO revenue growth accelerate as you laid out last fall if we continue to have this kind of DirecTV satellite mixed sift headwind that seems to have bitten premiums a bit in the last quarter? Thank you.
Hey thanks Ben.
This is Howard.
So yes the answer is the SVOD is in those investments.
That represents part of the consumer experience improvement that we're talking about.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Yeah look we're very actually excited about the deals that are coming up for renewal.
And we think as we've said before that while there's a disproportionate amount of our sub growth that is not revenue generating that also presents us with a huge opportunity because as our brand continues to grow and as we continue to add value to the brand which we think we've done in droves in the last years that gives us a terrific position as we go into these negotiations.
And we are going to recapture some of that revenue from our better performing affiliates.
And as we go in to renegotiate we think there's a lot of upside for us and certainly in the worst performing affiliates and in the better performing affiliates as well.
Thank you both.
Thanks Ben.Ashley we have time for one more question.
Okay our final question comes from Anthony DiClemente of Nomura.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks a lot and good morning.
Rich on the HBO side is there anything you can give us more specifically on HBO NOW as far as the subscriber trajectory consumption patterns? It must be giving you some confidence in informing your investments in content at HBO.
So anything you can give us on engagement or revenue I think would help us and investors further our understanding of your content investments there.
And then John – go ahead.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Sorry.
No no.
Sorry.
Inc.</span></strong> No I was just going to add a quick one for John Martin just at Turner.
It seems as though NBA on TNT and MLB on TBS continue to be big anchors for Turner.
Could you just touch on your interest in sports content or incremental sports rights from here? I'm thinking of the Thursday night football package for next year.
Thanks.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Let me start with NOW quickly.
Look it's early days still.
We're basically within the first six months.
Roku just joined Apple Android and Amazon.
We still have PlayStation and Xbox to come.
It's worth noting that 40% of GO usage for example comes on Roku PlayStation and Xbox.
We just went on Roku.
So there's a lot of opportunity out there for us.
We're very pleased with what we're seeing.
We love the programming that we're adding.
We're going to begin next year marketing even more aggressively as we're out on all platforms.
But the subscriber satisfaction the trends we're seeing we're very pleased.
It's early days.
We have more to do and we're going to make the necessary investments not only in content but in marketing.
Just continue to show people the value proposition inside the brand and inside not only HBO NOW but also HBO GO and the linear network as well.
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Hey Anthony it's John.
So if you're asking if we'd be interested in an NFL Thursday night package the answer's yes.
The NFL is a premium sports property.
We think it would be a great fit within the Turner brand.
We think we'd be fantastic partners with them to help build their brand.
So if and when the Thursday night package becomes available it's something that we would look at.
But I want to be very clear here that our intention would be to remain very fiscally responsible.
And we feel really good about our current sports portfolio.
I would agree with what you said that what we have already provides a real anchor to the value of our networks and we've got the NBA partnership into 2025 March Madness through 2024 and Major League Baseball through 2021.
So I think we're in great shape now.
We would look at the NFL opportunistically and either way we'll be fine.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much.
Thanks Anthony.
Thanks Anthony.
Thank you everybody for joining us today.
If you have any follow-up questions please let us know.
If not we'll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Welcome to the Time Warner Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
My name is Mike and I'll be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we'll conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President-Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks.
And good morning everyone.
Welcome to Time Warner's fourth quarter and full-year earnings conference call.
This morning we issued two press releases one detailing our results for the fourth quarter and full-year and the other providing our 2016 full-year business outlook.
Before we begin there are two items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that is available on our website.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on Management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now to the call over to Jeff Bewkes Time Warner's Chairman and CEO who will be followed by Howard Averill Time Warner's CFO.
After their prepared remarks our divisional CEOs John Marten Richard Plepler and Kevin Tsujihara will join us for our Q&amp;A session.
Jeff? Thanks Mike.
Thanks everyone for listening in this morning.
We had another strong year in 2015.
Our revenues increased 3% to $28.1 billion adjusted operating income grew 19% to $6.9 billion and adjusted earnings per share grew 14% to $4.75 a share.
That's our seventh consecutive year of double-digit growth in adjusted EPS and we've outpaced all of our peers over that time.
We also returned close to $5 billion to shareholders in share repurchases and dividends and our updated $5 billion share repurchase authorization and our 15% increase and the dividend underscore our commitment to disciplined capital allocation and continued direct returns to shareholders.
It's the same combination of strong execution continued investment in our businesses and disciplined capital allocation that's allowed us to provide superior long-term returns to shareholders.
As we discussed with you last quarter the shift to on-demand multiplatform consumption of video content is accelerating.
Consumers increasingly have greater control over where when and on what device they watch their favorite content and they're responding by spending more time and money watching video than ever.
With more options available they're also demanding great content be accompanied by a great viewing experience.
And while these shifts present challenges they also create enormous opportunities.
In this environment we're convinced that the strongest brands biggest networks and the best content will take share.
Our strategy was designed with these shifts in mind and we're more confident than ever that we are ideally positioned to benefit.
For years we've been investing in the very best video content and using technology to enhance the value of our brands.
With our revenue growth is set to accelerate this year we will be investing more aggressively not only in content but also in new capabilities in digital products to ensure our brands and content are available wherever and however consumers look for them.
And that we can monetize them effectively when they do.
At the same time we will continue to take our brands around the world and operate as efficiently as possible to help fund investments in future growth.
Our structure supports this strategy.
We've deliberately reshaped the company to focus on high-quality video businesses with global scale and are well positioned to capitalize on the growing demand for the very best video content.
The combined scale of our businesses is critical to our ability to take advantage of that growth and it's particularly important in distribution and programming the core of what we do as a company.
The benefits of our strategy and the advantages of our scale and structure were evident in our many successes in 2015.
Let me share a few highlights starting at our networks which continued to lead the industry.
Turner was the only programming group with three of the top 10 ad supported cable networks in prime time among adults 18 to 49.
And TBS finished as the number one entertainment cable network in that demo for the third consecutive year.
Our operating momentum was strongest at CNN and Cartoon Network.
In 2015 CNN was the fastest-growing top 40 cable networks in the U.S.
in its key demo and Cartoon network was the only top three kid’s network to grow ratings.
And then when it comes to premium content HBO remains peerless.
Its 43 content Emmy awards not only led all networks for the 14 consecutive year but was also the most Emmys received in a single year by any network in at least 25 years.
That included 12 for Game of Thrones setting a record for any series in one year.
We demonstrated the combined strength of our brands and the scale of our network in affiliate negotiations during 2015.
Last spring for example Turner and HBO worked together to renew their agreements with Dish and later in the year Turner completed a deal with one of its largest distributors and now has all of its top 10 affiliates on a new rate card that will drive accelerating revenue growth starting in 2016.
While strengthening its place inside the multichannel ecosystem Turner has been expanding its presence outside with two of our biggest digital properties CNN Digital and Bleacher Report growing revenue over 25% on a combined basis.
CNN Digital remains the top position in news for multiplatform views and Bleacher Report again finished the year as the number two digital sports destination in the U.S.
HBO also accelerated its efforts outside the ecosystem with the pioneering launch of HBO NOW last April.
HBO NOW was a significant contributor to HBOs 2.7 million domestic subscriber additions last year capping its best two-year period of subscriber additions in the past 30 years.
Just as importantly HBO continue to have positive momentum with its traditional distributors.
Outside the U.S.
HBO Latin America introduced a standalone OTT product in Columbia followed recently by Mexico expanding the international reach of our streaming products.
We also extended high return low risk licensing agreements in Canada and certain European territories as we continue to execute the multi-model international distribution strategy that we think best monetizes our great content.
At Warner Bros we had a record year in both revenue and profits driven by growth in its television business and a best ever year in video games.
While our overall theatrical performance was not as strong as another years we’re really proud of our two Oscar-nominated films Mad Max: Fury Road and Creed.
In television we were the leading supplier to broadcast again and we had the top new broadcast show in Blindspot the top reality program with The Voice and the top comedy in The Big Bang Theory.
And Warner Bros ended the year as a top three video game publisher in the U.S.
and Europe on the strength of Mortal Kombat X Batman Arkham Knight and the successful introduction of a new franchise in Lego Dimensions.
Warner has also continued to build its international business to tap into the significant growth opportunity we see in China specifically.
Last year Warner entered into an exciting new venture to produce local language films.
Our confidence in the China opportunities that we enforce by the success of Hollywood VIP an SVOD partnership between Warner' and Tencent Holiday VIP added more than $5 million new subscribers in 2015 helped by its exclusive access to Warner Bros Movies and HBO's original program.
So 2015 was another very successful year on multiple fronts and thanks for the investments we've been making we're poised for an even better year in 2016 as we roll out richer more engaging content line ups across the company and accelerate the pace of investment and innovation.
At HBO that includes increasing the hours of original programming by 50% globally.
We'll have an unmatched line-up of returning shows including Game of Thrones Silicon Valley John Oliver Ballers and VEEP as well as some of our oldest new programming in years including Vinyl from Martin Scorsese and Mick Jagger which will debut this Sunday Westworld from JJ Abrams and produced by Warners and Divorce with Sarah Jessica Parker.
We also have an ambitious roster of new programming geared to the NOW audience including shows from Jon Stuart Bill Simmons Sesame Street and a Daily Vice Newscast.
As we introduce all this new content and further expand distribution we’re going to step up our marketing reach beyond that.
We think the combination of an even stronger original programming line-up and best selection of hit Hollywood movies and ever improving digital products will drive continued subscriber growth both at HBO NOW and with our traditional distributors.
As we renegotiate some of our more important affiliate agreements over the next couple of years we expect to better monetize those subscribers and accelerate subscription revenue growth at HBO.
We’ll continue to expand HBO streaming products internationally as well.
We anticipate significantly expanding our OTT footprint in Latin America and recently we announced plans to launch a standalone streaming product in Spain later this year.
We’re equally excited about everything to Turner has in store for 2016.
It’s going to historic year for Turner Sports which will broadcast the NCAA Men’s Basketball Finals for the first time and we’re rolling out Turner's new E-Sports league in partnership with WME/IMG.
And as we head into the home stretch of delivering 2016 presidential election race CNN will continue to be the place to find authoritative political coverage and analysis.
In Kids Cartoon will look to build on its momentum from last year and we’re excited about Boomerang's content refresh and global expansion which is the centerpiece of the Kids partnership between Warner and Turner.
This year we’ll also start the brand refreshes of TBS and TNT.
TBS recently kicked off it's near line-up with launches of Angie Tribeca and Full Frontal with Samantha Bee.
We're already changing perceptions of what to expect from the network and there is a lot more to come.
TNT will start its own refresh later this year with projects such as Animal Kingdom from producer John Wells and Warner Bros.
Good Behavior and The Alienist joining its existing line up of leading original while it will take some time to fully refresh their line ups we’re already seeing evidence of a bolt new voice from both networks.
These changes at TBS and TNT are just the latest steps in a multiyear transformation at Turner.
Over the last several years we put in place new management teams at Cartoon Networks CNN truTV and Turner's international portfolio and the results give us a lot of confidence in our ability to further strengthen TBS and TNT in the years ahead.
In 2015 CNN and Cartoon significantly outpaced their peers and one year after it’s rebrand truTV's ratings in its key demos returned to growth in the fourth quarter and excluding the impact of FX Tuners internationals networks have grown profits over 60% since 2013.
2016 is also set to be blockbuster year at Warner Bros.
We’re expecting another record performance this time led by our theatrical business.
Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice arrives in theatres on March 25 and its one of the most anticipated films of this or any year.
More than just to class between the two iconic super hero’s it will mark the beginning of a multiyear slate of franchise films at Warner’s.
DC will be a significant part of that slate including Suicide Squad this August and Wonder Woman and the First Justice League movie in 2017.
Cartoon Network is also launching a new justice league TV show which will join Teen Titans Go another DC-based program from Warner Bros and the number one show on Cartoon Network.
That underscores both DCs success in television.
It has eight shows on air this season and the deepening integration between Warner’s and Turners Kids business.
The strength of our theatrical slide extends far beyond the DC titles.
We're just as excited about fantastic pieces and where to find them.
The magical return to JK Rowling's world of Harry Potter set for release this November and we’re already looking forward for the return of our Lego franchise in 2017 with and Lego Batman and Ninjago.
As those title migrate into premium and broadcast windows we'll also benefit from them on HBO and Turner's network.
While it's too early in the development season we're very confident about the prospects of Warner Bros TV and the upcoming TV season.
We're expanding and diversifying our slate of programming working to expand our leadership position in broadcast to basic cable premium cable and OTT services.
That includes some of HBO's and Turner's biggest new shows that I noted before as well as original broadening for SVOD services like 11/22/63 for Hulu and Fuller House for Netflix.
Putting all of this together I hope you can appreciate why we expect 2016 to be a standout year for Time Warner.
We expect the investments we've made in recent years to drive and acceleration in revenue growth.
Along with continued cost discipline that will allow us to invest aggressively in the business while delivering very attractive financial results.
All that's reflected in the outlook we released this month.
We're just as confident about our long-term prospects.
As I noted earlier the shift to on-demand consumption is accelerating and we're stepping up our pace of innovation investment to match it.
Because of our industry-leading brands and scale we're in a great position to take advantage of the many opportunities these shifts are creating and we have clear momentum across the company so we fully expect to continue delivering industry leading financial results and shareholder returns in many years to come.
Thanks for listening in.
I'll turn it over to How.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide of our presentation which is now available on our website.
As you'll recall 2014's results were affected by significant restructuring and severance charges across the company and programming charges at Turner.
Given the nature and size of these items my comments today related to expenses margins and adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter and full year will exclude these charges from all periods.
Starting with consolidated results for the year revenues grew 3% or 7% excluding a drag of almost 400 basis points from FX.
Adjusted operating income increased 6% or a very healthy 13% absent or more than 700 basis points currency headwind and that came despite a decline in the fourth quarter primarily due to the timing of programming expenses at Turner programming charges at HBO and difficult comparisons at Warner.
As a result of the restructuring actions we took and ongoing efficiency measures we limited total expense growth to 2% and increased margins close to a 100 basis points.
When we took those actions we set a goal of $500 million in cost savings.
We recognized the majority of those savings this year and expected to catch our initial target in 2016.
Those savings helped find nearly $12 billion in content investments across the company.
So we were able to drive margin expansion while still investing aggressively in the business.
Moving down the income statement adjusted EPS of $4.75 exceeded our outlook for the year and when excluding an FX drag of $0.50 adjusted EPS growth was a very strong 27%.
In addition to our strong operating performance we also benefited from our share repurchase program.
In 2015 we repurchased $3.6 billion of our share.
So combined with $1.2 billion in dividend we returned $4.8 billion to shareholders during the year.
So we had another really good year in 2015.
That was the result of the same combination of top tier operating performance relentless focus on efficiency growth investments and disciplined capital allocation that has allowed us to provide our shareholders with long-term returns well above our peer group average and that's the combination we will continue to strive for in 2016 when we anticipate another year of attractive growth.
That's reflected in our 2016 outlook for adjusted EPS of $5.30 to $5.40 achieving current rates including approximately $0.15 year-over-year headwind from FX.
Since that additional FX headwind our outlook would imply mid to high teens growth in adjusted EPS.
I'll provide additional context during our outlook as we go through the presentation.
Now turning to the segment highlights.
I'll start at Turner where we grew adjusted operating income double digits in 2015 even in the face of significant FX headwinds and while we continue to invest in the transformation Jeff discussed.
Advertising revenues increased 2% for the year and 5% in the quarter that was ahead of our expectations for the quarter due to the strong domestic ad market and improved ratings trends.
Domestic advertising grew high single digits in the quarter.
That was boosted by particularly strong results in news and kids record ratings for MLP Playoff games and comparison for last year's dispute with Dish and the airing of three additional major league baseball playoff games.
International advertising grew low double digits in the quarter excluding an over 18 percentage point drag from FX and the benefit from the consolidation of our sports network in Brazil.
Looking ahead to the first quarter we're seeing a continuation of the recent positive trends.
So we expect total advertising revenue to be up in the mid-single digits despite continued FX headwinds and with the scatter pricing pacing up double digits versus the upfront historically low cancellation levels and great momentum at many of our brands every indication points to our very strong upfront this year.
Moving on subscription revenues were up 1% for the year but looking through the impact of foreign currency would have increased 5%.
In the fourth quarter domestic subscription revenues grew in the mid-single digits which included a benefit of from the top against the dispute with Dish last year and absent a greater than 20 percentage point drag from FX international subscription revenue grew in the low single digits.
A slowdown internationally was due in part to the timing of revenues related to a contract renewal.
Looking to 2016 we now achieved the rate increases we were targeting with all of our top 10 domestic distributors.
So we continue to expect domestic subscription revenue growth to accelerate into the low teens starting in the first quarter.
We also anticipate attractive local currency growth at our international networks.
So our current rates FX headwinds will prevent a return to reported growth until the later parts of the year.
Adjusted operating income was up 11% for the year.
As we anticipated that included a fourth quarter decline due to 13% programming cost growth which was mainly a result of higher MLB expenses and the timing of original programming.
For the year total expenses declined 3% and margins expanded over 300 basis points to the highest level in Turner's history.
That was due to continue tight cost control and the benefits of the restructuring we undertook in 2014.
Putting that all together Turner delivered very strong growth in adjusted operating income while making progress on the multi-year transformation of our core networks.
We took share in both news and kids and started the hard work of rebranding our entertainment network.
And with the investments we made across the business we laid the groundwork for continued attractive growth in the years to come.
Turning now to HBO where we had another year of strong subscriber growth while continuing to make the investments necessary to go after the significant global opportunity we see for the business.
Subscription revenues were up 3% for the quarter and 4% for the year.
Both periods included about 100 basis point headwind from the combination of foreign exchange and the transfer of HBO's basic cable service in India to Turner.
Domestic subscription revenue increased in the mid-single digits for both the quarter and the year.
We continue to see very strong growth in our subscriber base but subscriber mix remained a constraint on revenue growth.
At the same time we're pleased with the early progress we're making with HBO NOW who's contribution to subscription revenue increased sequentially throughout the year.
As we move into 2016 we expect the revenue contributions from HBO NOW to increase further as we rollout new programming and expand distribution allowing us to invest even more aggressively in marketing the product and later in the year we expect to begin renewing some of our affiliate deal which should result in improved monetization of our subscriber base.
Moving to content and other revenue which grew 20% in the quarter and 6% for the year that's mainly due to higher international licensing revenues and is indicative of a strong demand we're seeing globally for HBO's premium content.
Across the HBO's international networks including unconsolidated JVs revenues increased high single digits for the quarter and year when excluding the impact of FX and transfer of the basic service in India and subscriber growth remained strong especially in Latin America and Europe.
Adjusted operating income was down 3% in the quarter but up 1% for the year.
The decline in the fourth quarter was mainly due to higher programming expenses which increased 11%.
That growth included programming charges primarily related to series and development that HBO decided not to move forward with.
Looking through those charges programming cost would have grown 1% in the quarter.
For the full year total expenses increases 5% reflecting investments in technology and marketing related to the launch of HBO NOW as well higher programming cost.
So 2015 was another successful year for HBO as we maintained the subscriber momentum we had for the past few years and with another year of profit growth and continue to execute our key strategic initiatives including the launch of standalone streaming products in the U.S.
and Latin America.
And given the strength of both the global demand for our product and our programming slate we remain very confident in HBO's ability to accelerate its growth over the next several years.
Moving on to Warner Bros despite a dip in the fourth quarter we finished the year with record revenues and profits lead by our TV and games businesses.
We achieved that even with a material drag from FX.
On the TV side revenues increased modestly in the quarter due largely to international growth and for the year TV revenue grew double-digits that was primarily due to significant growth in licensing revenue including the domestic licensing of 2 Broke Girls Big Bang Theory Person of Interest Seinfeld and Friends.
We also continue to see increasing demand and strong pricing around the globe for Warner's hit content.
So we remain encouraged by the strong secular trends in the TV business.
Turning to video games we have difficult comparisons in the quarter against Lego Batman 3 and Middle Earth Shadow of Mordor.
Even so we posted record video games revenue up close to $1.5 billion for the year and with the great IP and strong franchisee at Warner's we're confident we can continue to grow our games business over time.
We actually knew 2015 would be a challenging year given the lack of any core franchisee releases and the comparison against the end of the Hobbit trilogy as well as the releases of the Lego movie and Godzilla.
So as expected revenues declined for both the quarter and the year.
Looking ahead 2016 will mark the beginning of an ambitious slate of franchisee movies including at least 17 releases from our DC Lego and World of Harry Potter franchises through 2020.
So we feel great about the outlook for our theatrical business in 2016 and beyond.
Across theatrical and TV home entertainment revenue declined 10% for the year due to continued weakness and physical sale in particular catalog releases and lower carry-over revenue.
However digital trends remain healthy with the FT growing in the high teens for Warner's.
On the expense side and in line with the enterprise wide focus on cost efficiency Warner's reduced SG&amp;A by 2% for the year and that included significant savings from the 2014 restructuring actions.
So on the whole Warner's had a terrific year and with a moment at our TV and games businesses and ambitious franchisee film slate for the next several years we're in great position to drive attractive growth at Warner's for the foreseeable future.
Turning to the next slide we generated very healthy free cash of $3.6 billion in 2015 converting over 90% of our earnings into cash.
The year-over-year increase was due to the growth in adjusted operating income and lower cash taxes and not despite the increase in working capital as a result of increased content investments across our division and severance payments related to the restructuring initiatives in 2014.
Our cash taxes declined primarily due to the timing of tax legislation and related payments.
Looking to 2016 we expect another year of solid growth and free cash flow driven by strong profit growth and continued high conversion.
Now looking at our balance sheet we ended 2015 with $21.6 billion of net debt up $1.8 billion from the end of 2014.
That's primarily a result of our continued commitment to direct returns to shareholders.
During 2015 we repurchased $3.6 billion in shares and combined with our dividend return $4.8 billion to shareholders.
And as Jeff noted earlier the Board authorized a 15% increase in our dividend and up to $5 billion in share repurchases reinforcing our commitment to provide direct returns to shareholders.
During the year we took advantage of favorable marketing conditions to strengthen our balance sheet by issuing $2.8 billion of long term debt including our first euro denominated debt offering.
We also extended the maturity of our revolving bank credit facilities through the end of 2020.
Meanwhile we retired $2 billion of debt in the year as a result of a maturity and a tender offer and redemption of higher price debt and on the investments front we spent close to $700 million about half of which is related to our real estate project at Hudson Yards.
We expect to invest a similar amount in that project in 2016.
We ended the year with a net leverage ratio of approximately 2.85 times just about our target level.
Looking forward we plan to return to our target leverage ratio of 2.75 times over the next few quarters and we don’t anticipate a change in either that target level or our capital allocation’s velocity which will remain focused on investment back into our businesses coupled with M&amp;A and consistent direct returns to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
With that let's move on to the final slide which looks at our outlook for 2016.
2016 marks the start of what we anticipate will be a strong content cycle across the company and that should translate into an acceleration in revenue and adjusted operating income growth and another year of strong growth in adjusted EPS.
At Turner we expect another strong year as we take advantage of faster revenue growth and continued cost efficiencies to increase investment for the future.
As I mentioned earlier subscription revenue growth should accelerate meaningfully and advertising revenue should benefit from a strong ad market continued momentum at CNN including from its election coverage and entering the NCAA championship game for the first time.
And at the same time we are planning for higher programming and marketing expenses tied primarily to the NCAA championship game and the start of our new NBA deal in 4Q as well as election coverage at CNN and investments in originals related to the brand repositioning at both TBS and TNT.
We remain focused on continuing to efficiently manage overhead expenses to help fund these initiatives.
At HBO we also expect faster growth in subscription revenue in 2016 driven by continued subscriber gains including from HBO NOW and improved monetization of our subscriber base.
Over the next couple of years we would expect that to take HBO subscription revenue growth into the high-single-digits.
That will be balanced against investments associated with HBO's slate of new originals as well as the new programming targeted for digital platforms.
We will also continue to invest in marketing and technology to drive growth on HBO's digital platform.
At Warner Bros.
we will kick off our slate of franchise films with the release of Batman v Superman Suicide Squad and the first of Jo Rowling's Fantastic Beasts films and while we are facing challenging comparisons in TV licensing and video games we expect both businesses to continue to deliver healthy results.
In addition we remain focused on driving margin expansion through efficiency measures and the transition to digital.
So all in all we expect very strong growth and another record year at Warner.
So looking across all three segments we are set up for a very good year from an operating perspective.
That is despite an estimated year-over-year FX drag of approximately $125 million on adjusted operating income and approximately $0.15 on adjusted EPS which we have factored into our outlook.
And if we look back relative to the expectations we shared with you at our Investor Day the FX drag on adjusted EPS in 2016 is in the range of $0.55 to $0.60.
Absent that we would be on track for the close $6 in adjusted EPS we shared with you then.
In terms of the cadence of the year we expect our earnings to be weighted toward the back half as a result of the timing of both our film slate and marketing investments at HBO and Turner.
Putting all that together we expect another very good year in 2016 which is reflected in our outlook for adjusted EPS of $5.30 to $5.40.
And that incorporates continued investments in high quality video content and new business models and capabilities that should position the Company to continue to drive very attractive growth for the next several years and beyond.
With that I will turn it back to Mike to start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Howard.
Mike can we please open up the line for Q&amp;A? [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Hi.
Thank you.
There seems to be a lot of opportunity ahead with HBO traditional domestic opportunity HBO NOW and international.
I guess can you provide us some color of where you think the most upside is specifically any upcoming milestones that come to you from the outside for signs of traction? I know you mentioned some renewals later this year I guess any color on when and what to expect there and any more color you can give us on HBO NOW subscribers.
Hey thanks Alexia.
This is Jeff I'm going to turn it to Richard.
Alexia thank you.
Look we had a terrific year in sub growth 2.7 million additional subs.
Quite obviously our mission and our opportunity is now as we have said to go capture the revenue that reflects that sub growth toward the end of this year and into next year and we are going to do that.
HBO NOW where we are just getting started I think we have made a lot of progress.
We are not yet out on two major platforms PlayStation and Xbox which for example on HBO GO account for over 20% of viewing.
And we've not yet put out the content like Jon Stewart Bill Simmons VICE daily news show that we think is particularly suited for those platforms.
And that of course will catalyze a great deal of marketing digitally and otherwise which we think will drive subscriptions.
So we are very excited about where we are.
I think it is important to punctuate that of the 2.7 million those are full paying subscribers.
Our job now is to go -- as the deal renewal cycles open up at the end of this year and into the next 18 months to go capture that revenue and we intend to do that.
Richard why don't you add a little about international HBO? Sure.
Well look we have three basic tenants of course of profit around the world one is our networks business in 60 countries and of course licensing into over 150 countries.
And it is not as we've said to you before a one-size-fits-all strategy.
We look at this market by market where we think we can make the most money and we follow the money.
We just added an OTT service in Spain doing the cost benefit and decided that that is where the best long-term growth opportunity was for us.
We extended a licensing deal in Canada with Bell Canada and Bell Media because that's where we thought the best long-term growth opportunity was.
So we take this market by market we have a lot of flexibility and the reason I think that we're uniquely suited to exploit these opportunities is because we own our own content and that gives us an enormous amount of flexibility however we choose to pivot around the world.
Hey Alexia this is Howard.
Just to clarify one thing.
The 2.7 million subs they are paying consumers we're just not seeing the benefit as Richard pointed out.
That we need to go and we need to work with our distributors to renegotiate as we go forward so that we capture some of that upside as we move forward.
And then would you see some of that I assume when you do some of the renewals that you pointed to toward the end of this year as well? Precisely right.
Yes that starts this year and it goes over the next 18 months or so.
Look I can't resist -- this is Jeff.
I can't resist adding this is exactly what we've been telling you and it is on track because remember what we are all focused on here particularly at HBO is that we want to show the value and demonstrate consumer penetration these are paying subs the value of the service.
We intended to do that before then aligning the affiliate renewals to capture the money and this is something we do in partnership and in order to incentivize our distributors.
And we are pushing HBO out both in traditional distribution and on the NOW platform to cover either of the 70 million basics that don't have pay TV or to go after the 12 million or 13 million broadband only's again just in the U.S.
But if you look at it across all of those platforms it's basically quite an advantageous position that HBO is now in to accelerate the revenues not just in '16 but in '17 '18 and beyond.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Alexia.
Mike can we have the next question please? The next question is from John Janedis from Jefferies.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just wanted to start maybe with a couple of housekeeping questions.
First can you clarify the programming charges during the quarter by segment? And do you foresee more in the near-term? And then secondly for the '16 guidance how much of its driven by the tax rate and do you expect to buy back a similar amount of stock this year? Hey John this is Howard.
So in terms of program impairments at Turner we had about $130 million in the fourth quarter and that was tied to the TBS and TNT transition which has now started at TBS and we have rolled out some new shows and we are pretty pleased so far with where that is going.
There is another $50 million or so of charges at HBO and that was tied to some series that we decided not to move forward with which happens occasionally.
So in the quarter it was about $180 million of charges.
As far as the taxes and the buyback I would say the tax rate in '16 will actually go up versus '15.
That's in part because we saw some fourth quarter benefits that lowered the rate overall for '15.
So I think if you look forward you should see a tax rate that might be up a couple hundred basis points more in line with what we had in the first three quarters of 2015.
In terms of buybacks as always that's going to depend on what our free cash flow generation is and what other alternative uses of capital are.
But given that we ended the year at about 2.85 times which was above our target leverage of 2.75 times I would expect that the buyback would come down a bit versus 2015 levels.
Thanks Howard.
And maybe Jeff separately.
You talked a bit now about potentially retaining rights longer or delaying SVOD sales.
Can you give us updated views? And is there any anecdotal evidence that there would be an impact on ratings given how millennials consume content? Do others need to follow to strengthen the industry broadly and if there is anything to share in the context of partnering in Hulu that would be helpful thanks.
That's a lot of questions.
Let's start with what you were talking about in terms of either syndication sales windows etc.
We are not ideological about syndication windows that depends on evolution and a lot of factors.
But I think the overriding point everybody ought to focus on is that it is becoming crystal clear that consumers want the ability to watch their favorite show their favorite network on demand across whatever platform they are watching whatever window it is whether it's a new show current season whether it is one- or two-year-old show they want to see it on demand.
We want to make sure our networks have the flexibility to meet that consumer demand.
Now if you look at HBO a perfect example.
HBO has for many years provided on demand access to almost all the content multiple seasons that it has ever produced.
Some of the new entrants in the business that have VOD as a primary feature have also put multiple seasons on.
The Turner networks are committed to delivering more programming on demand across their distribution channels that is whether you get it in a new bundle over the top whether you get it through a traditional distributor.
And Warner's already sells broad suites of rights when partners are interested in them.
And of course Warner sells to every kind of network broadcast premium cable over the top subscription VOD services.
So the overriding development which is a good development is that consumers want VOD on whatever show or window they are watching and we are basically moving to satisfy consumer demand.
Now your second question which is what has to happen not just in our company and I think we have been pretty clear about what we said is that distributors need to be able to offer more on-demand functionality.
We see them moving quite rapidly now to do that.
You can look at interfaces and on-demand offerings at Comcast.
You can see new bundles and moves at Verizon or Sling and I think Sony has a new product.
I think you are going to see ever increasing innovation across the distribution platforms over the top and in traditional distribution package offerings.
So this consumer demand is going to be satisfied and it is basically going to be good for any brand any network or any show that has strong consumer residence.
And that is why we think that it's very good for our very concentrated suite of networks at Turner and HBO and we think it's very good for the world's leading producer of TV shows and films which is Warner Bros.
He had one more question what was it? Well I just want to go back to it.
I want to just do some housekeeping on your housekeeping question which you talked about are there future plans for charges.
There is not any plans for any material charges going forward.
I think you asked a question about Hulu.
Correct.
Yes.
Well as you know we're not going to comment on someone else's asset or any press speculation.
But so putting aside who -- we're actively pursuing opportunities outside the ecosystem.
You have heard it at Turner at HBO at Warner's.
It is part of our efforts to meet the consumer demand who are looking for more video and more VOD whether it is HBO NOW whether it is our Turner networks and all the new over-the-top bundles whether it is both Turner HBO product or Warner product in overseas markets basically that is what you are seeing.
We think it is a good thing that we have these new entrants offering more on-demand.
Thanks John.
Mike can we have our next question please? Your next question is from Michael Nathanson from MoffettNathanson.
Thank you.
I have one for Richard and one for John.
Richard now you are into the first year of life at HBO NOW.
I wonder what has surprised you in terms of the roll out.
And how have you adjusted your strategies based on that learning? And then for John there's been increasing focus by us on minimum carriage agreements between networks and distributors.
So if you could talk a bit about how close Turner is to your floors on those minimums and whether or not you have to adjust down any of your minimums in exchange for the better pricing that you received? Michael thank you it is Richard.
Look we are learning all the time.
We are at this eight months we are at about 800 000 paying subscribers.
We see an enormous amount of opportunity ahead.
As I said to Alexia we are excited about getting on additional platforms.
We're excited about bringing new content to the product which we think is going to draw people in on a daily basis things like Stewart and VICE News and Simmons and we're going to begin to market more aggressively.
But again I don't want to bury the lead.
HBO NOW is an additive part of our growth strategy.
And what we have seen in the ecosystem where we see the vast amount of growth is that we have huge opportunities there as well.
So we are going to work on a multifaceted way to expand our sub base and to expand our sub revenue as I discussed earlier.
Hi Michael it's John.
So with respect to your carriage agreement question for a long time now Turner has paid a lot of attention to it distribution commitments.
And I'm not going to speak specifically about any one of our distributors but we do have protections in all of our agreements and we feel really confident from a contractual standpoint that we will be highly penetrated and remain highly penetrated.
I think more importantly over time what's going to determine the distribution strength is going to be the strength of your brands.
And we have now -- and this has been a long time coming for Turner and Time Warner we've just now completed a distribution rate renewal cycle that we started planning for four years ago and beginning in the first quarter of 2016 we're going to see meaningful acceleration in our domestic subscription revenues.
And we feel great about that we think it is a tremendous validation of the brands that we have.
And I feel very confident that our brands are going to be carried in all and any major programming packages going forward.
So we haven't made -- and specifically to your question have we made adjustments down on penetration the answer is no.
Okay.
Thanks John  Thanks Michael.
Mike can we have our next question please? Your next question is from Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Thank you.
Good morning.
A couple.
Howard I don't know if you would be willing to help us with working capital and cash taxes for '16.
And then John just picking up on the Turner outlook as I am sure you are well aware there is a big focus on domestic affiliate revenue growth across the space.
Now that you have got all of your deals done can you help us with '17 and '18? I think you had guided to low teens again in 2017.
But given what you are seeing in subs and sub trends and your deals that are now done you probably have pretty good visibility so any comfort there you could give us would be really helpful.
And then if I can sneak one more in on HBO.
Richard have you thought about -- I am sure you have thought about it but are you -- are there any restrictions to changing the price point on HBO NOW? Just wondering if you have considered lowering the price of the over the over-the-top product in the U.S.
given where the sort of other over-the-top services are priced? Thanks.
Do you want me to start? Hey Ben it is John.
I will start on the carriage agreements and visibility.
Look I think this is one of the great benefits of being in this business and having the great partnerships that we have with our affiliates is that we have multiple year deals with great visibility on how that is going to translate into revenue.
And so as I said we still continue to expect and we have been predicting this now for a long time that our subscription revenues are going to accelerate into the low teens in 2016.
I think in 2017 I would expect the growth rate to be in a similar level.
We feel really terrific about and confident about our ability to achieve those levels.
We have done everything we said we were setting out to do on our rate renewal cycle and we feel great about that.
Thank you.
Yes Ben you wanted to know about price.
Look we don't have any plans to change the price point at this point.
We have a lot of flexibility.
But what we are seeing is an enormous amount of growth in the ecosystem.
So listen we think that our premium price right now makes sense.
And we will assess that as we go forward but right now we have to plans to change it.
Back to free cash flow Ben.
So as I mentioned in 2015 we converted at over 90% of our earnings to cash flow.
We see strong conversion going forward nothing really unusual from a working capital standpoint.
I would say with respect to cash taxes we did see some benefit this year from some legislation.
We're going to see continued benefit in '16 but I would expect it might tick up a bit from a cash tax standpoint in 2016.
Thank you all.
Thanks Ben.
Operator Mike can we have the next question please? And your next question is from Anthony DiClemente from Nomura Securities.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I have one for Kevin and one for John.
Kevin of course big film year for Warner's.
I wonder if you can also touch on the TV licensing comparisons that Howard mentioned the large syndication sales that you guys had in 2015 in the prepared remarks.
And given those compares on content licensing I wonder if you could help us with the swing factors around the growth trajectory for Warners in 2016.
So can video games and film kind of more than offset the tough TV licensing comps this year? And then for John Howard said just back to restructuring I know Howard just said that you have no plans for further restructurings as of now but I was just wondering at Turner what gives you the confidence and do you think the businesses are right sized at this point given the cable TV environment.
Do you have any further cost-cutting for the non-programming expenses planned and just walk us through how you evaluate that on an ongoing basis.
Thank you.
Anthony it's Kevin.
As Howard mentioned we do face a very difficult comp from a TV licensing perspective.
We don't have -- we had 2 Broke Girls Person of Interest Friends and Seinfeld and the second cycle of Big Bang Theory.
We don't have similar type product going down the pipeline in 2016.
But I will say that one of the things that we do have we have Monk coming up.
And the lumpiness of television licensing has decreased as you have seen more of the SVOD revenue.
Shows like Blindspot Supergirl Lucifer and Legends of Tomorrow which are big first-year shows this year won't have the same type of one-time kind of lumpiness as you look at how we are recognizing revenue and how we are selling these shows going forward.
'16 and beyond '16 and '17 are big film years it's what we talked to you about in October.
Feel really good about kind of setting up a film franchise with Batman v Superman Suicide Squad and Fantastic Beasts look great.
And so yes I do believe that film and games will more than offset the difficult comp in TV and we will have strong growth in 2016.
Thanks Kevin.
Hay Anthony its John.
So let's start with where we are at right now yes we've taken some pretty material restructuring recharges over the last couple of years.
As you heard Howard say no plans on the programming side.
Look I would say -- to take additional restructurings that is.
Look with regard to expenses overall on an adjusted basis Turner finished 2015 with the highest margins we have had in its history.
And I think our margins are now at or near the top of for the industry is and having said that we are going to remain incredibly disciplined across the entire Company as it relates to expenses and pay very close attention to how and where we are spending our money.
And we are going to be doing that at the same time that we are going to be investing to improve capabilities and build new businesses.
So I feel terrific about the efficiency of the operations of the Company right now.
I still believe longer term that our programming costs will grow in the high-single-digit range which is what we have been saying now for a long time and our non-programming costs should grow much much more slowly than that.
I just wanted to follow on and just point out -- John's discussion of the efficiency at Turner that is a philosophy across the entire company.
It is something that we continue to be focused on as we move forward.
Okay thanks.
Thanks Anthony.
Mike next question please.
And your next question is from the line of Richard Greenfield with Deutsche Bank.
Ross from BTIG in for Rich.
Two questions one for Jeff and one for Richard.
First for Jeff one of your peers Facebook grew mobile ad revenue by $2 billion year over year in Q4 alone largely on the back of video advertising.
As consumer engagement shifts to mobile away from TV what is your strategy for competing specifically in mobile? Do you need to start new businesses make acquisitions or combine with another entity? Brandon is this Jeff.
Good question.
We're focused on that opportunity.
And let's break it into a couple of pieces.
One is availability and that is we are committed to making our content available across all platforms including mobile.
That is why we went out years ago and put the TBE contracts in place for VOD to all of our affiliates.
That is why HBO announced On Demand more than a decade ago and now they have NOW.
And so what we have been doing if you go beyond those two pretty obvious examples is we've been building more digital businesses that go straight to mobile.
So let's look at them.
There is CNN which is the leader in mobile news and you are seeing very strong growth in CNN in all digital platforms but certainly in mobile and domestically and internationally by the way.
You have the launch of Great Big Story that is already with 170 million video views in just the first few months.
Bleacher Report -- the number two online sports destination in the country has a very strong mobile presence given the nature of that programming particularly with its team stream app.
Super Deluxe which is a new launch at Turner of a digital studio that makes short form video that is very weighted to mobile is yet another one.
So if you take all of those together that could -- probably should add some -- John add the cartoons.
Yes just to amplify what Jeff said the other category where we have a very strong competitive position and we are really focused on growing the business is in kids.
We re-launched the mobile app for Cartoon Network in the summer and within two months I think our traffic doubled.
And so there is going to be consistent innovation as we are going to continue to make our products better and better and better.
And I think the monetization of our traffic on all of these platforms is going to begin to improve.
And then let's go back to HBO.
You were asking mostly from the position -- from the point of view of ad revenue.
HBO doesn't do that.
But we have a lot of sub revenue there that is tied to mobile as well.
So new content like John Stewart Bill Simmons the VICE daily show we think is going to thrive on digital platforms.
And then not to leave at Kevin because he is sitting here with Griffin Studio that Warner is focused on short form content also for this kind of environment.
So we're basically moving with many avenues into this business.
Brandon its Richard.
So is that… Brandon do have another I can't remember do you have another question? Yes yes.
So my second question for you Richard was a year ago you thought all the ISPs would be actively marketing HBO NOW.
But it seems like they clearly want to protect their legacy video bundle at all costs.
Do you think this is why you only have 800 000 HBO NOW subs? And does it alter your thinking about the economic viability of OTT? And does it change your view on ISP consolidation? The answer to the last two questions are no and no.
Let me make a couple of points.
First of all I wouldn't say only 800 000 HBO NOW subs.
We are just getting started as I said earlier.
I think we are going to make a lot of progress as we put new content on and get onto new platforms.
And listen our distributors are selling HBO in a variety of different ways.
I had dinner with one of our major distributors the other night.
We talked about our growth opportunities.
Part of the conversation was HBO NOW and they were very excited about it.
So I reject the notion that our major distributors out of hand don't want to bundle HBO NOW I don't think that is true.
And as our deals come up for renewal I think we will see different kinds of packaging.
But listen if they want to sell HBO through skinny bundles fantastic.
If they want to sell HBO through triple plays fantastic.
And I think it is very important to remember that in the last four years we have grown eight million subscribers over the 44… In just the United States.
In just the United States.
In the 44-year history of our Company that is 20% of our sub growth.
What that tells you is and I have said before nobody is doing us any favor selling HBO.
They're growing their own businesses by using our brand to grow their different companies.
So I think this is a win-win.
And whether they want to market and bundle NOW or whether they want to do skinny bundles or basic packages or triple plays there is growth opportunities for them and parenthetical growth opportunities for us.
That's what we are excited about.
Thanks Brandon Operator Mike I think we have time for one more question.
The last question is from Jessica Reif Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch Thank you.
I have two questions.
We've talked a lot on the call about TV windows.
Can you discuss how you are thinking about film windows how they might change and how that would affect both Warner Bros and HBO? And the second question is you and all of your peers have talked about the strength of the ad market.
What do you think finally drove it back up and how are you feeling going into the upfront market? Kevin you start on it.
On the film window question I think that similar to the conversation that Jeff had on television windows we are constantly looking at what consumers are looking for what consumers are asking for and evaluating how to monetize that demand for content earlier and earlier.
We obviously have constituents in the film exhibition community that we are trying to also weigh the impact on that as well.
But I think that we continue to look at it.
I think the industry is looking at it.
And it also would affect the pay-TV window.
And Richard and I have had a number of conversations about what that would do to that and how HBO would play potentially even in that world as well.
Well let me add something because Richard it's good for HBO; however that ends up.
And one of the reasons is if films get more available in your home on demand and you have got to look at what kind of price will be yielded by that it is going to make the movie aspect of premium TV which HBO has the lead of more valuable from consumer -- in terms of what consumers value they're going to see what they're getting in the HBO subscription just on the movie side leave out the original program -- as ever more valuable.
That's a good thing.
Absolutely.
I would just add that because it is often obscured that our film viewing across all platforms is over 72% of viewing and on a linear network it is over 77% of viewing.
So the truth of the matter is the film business continues to be an enormous engine of viewership and subscriber satisfaction for HBO.
Hey Jessica it's John.
So I will take the advertising question.
We were really pleased with how strong 2015 ended.
And I'm also pleased as Howard said that we have seemed to be continuing a meaningful amount of momentum into the first quarter.
And I think there were a number of factors I think some of them are company specific and I think some of them are market specific.
The company specific factors would be right now our news business is killing it.
And we are really taking advantage of the hot news cycle and sports is really strong for us.
We're seeing very strong demand for the NBA and for the NCAA men's basketball championship.
We are also seeing great strength in the kids market and I think we are taking share there.
In terms of the overall ad market I think you are seeing a few things that are contributing to the buoyancy and the vibrancy of the market.
Number one the strength of scatter all throughout 2015 means that if you sat out the upfront you paid for it in the scatter market.
So we're looking ahead and we think all indicators would seem to suggest that this year's upfront is going to be particularly strong.
And I think that is going to reverse what has been a couple of years of being not so strong.
And I think there is a recognition that TV is still the best reach medium and the most effective option for brand advertisers to convey their message.
And so there is going to be a lot of innovation happening in advertising.
We want to lead the market there.
But we feel really good about where things are right now.
All right thanks Jessica.
And thank you everybody for joining us today.
If you have any follow-up questions please give us a call.
Have a great day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.