Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Textron First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Doug Wilburne Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Katie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Moving now to first quarter results which appear on Slide 3 of the presentation revenues in the quarter were $2.5 billion up 12.2% from a year ago which yielded earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.10 compared to a loss of $0.01 in the first quarter of 2010.
Last year's result included $0.06 in special charges.
First quarter manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions reflected a use of cash of $55 million compared to a use of cash of $134 million during last year's first quarter.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everyone.
Let me start by saying that we had mixed results in the first quarter.
On the positive side while our commercial aircraft deliveries of Bell and Cessna in the quarter were flat on a year-over-year basis order and customer inquiry activity was higher than it was a year ago.
Specifically at Cessna gross orders improved from last year's first quarter as did used aircraft sales.
In terms of leading indicators availability of used Citations also continued to improve dropping to 14% of installed fleet from 14.5% at the end of the year and a high in the cycle of 17.3%.
Based on overall current customer activity we still believe jet deliveries this year will be up slightly from 2010.
Inquiries are broad-based geographically including the U.S.
where the bonus tax depreciation incentive is still in effect.
This will likely drive Q4 sales in a similar fashion as we experienced last year.
Now let me address Cessna's financial performance.
Revenues were up $123 million primarily due to higher mix of light and mid-sized jets and an increase in new jets in sales.
Despite the increase in revenue Cessna posted a segment loss of $38 million.
While there are a number of items in the quarter which contributed to the magnitude of the loss I would say that our underlying operational performance at Cessna was disappointing.
The production ramp of the new CJ4 is going well technically but is above our production cost targets.
We have seen price stabilizing across most aircraft models but inflation did erode margins and even at low levels of production in the factory I believe we can do better in terms of driving productivity.
We have taken a number of actions over the past couple of years at Cessna but clearly have more to do.
I assure you we're taking the necessary actions to restore our profitability even as we increase investments in new products and service offerings.
Moving to Bell execution and financial performance remained strong reflecting solid execution on our military program ramp ups.
We delivered 9 V-22s and 4 H-1s versus 4 V-22s and 3 H-1s in the first quarter of 2010.
Both of these important programs are also performing well for our customers.
In February the H-1 Zulu which was approved for full rate production just last quarter achieved initial operating capability certification by the Department of Defense.
This designation represents an important operational achievement.
Also in February the V-22 achieved the 100 000 flight hour milestone.
The V-22 performance both in combat and humanitarian missions has been outstanding.
According to Navy Safety Center records the MV-22 has the lowest Class A mishap rate of any rotorcraft in the Marine Corps during the past decade.
Also Navy data shows that the Osprey already has the lowest cost per seat mile than the U.S.
Navy transport rotorcraft.
So we're proud of the program and the capabilities it's providing to our customers.
On the commercial side of the business we had an excellent show at Heli-Expo where we introduced two new models.
We unveiled the 407GX which is an upgraded version of the Bell 407 equipped with the Garmin 1000 [Garmin G1000] integrated flight deck.
And we introduced the 407 AH an economical but fully capable armed helicopter designed for paramilitary and paramilitary applications.
Currently the overall tone of the show was decidedly better than last year as we signed a number of important customer contracts.
Finally another important achievement by Bell in the quarter was being named the #1 provider of rotorcraft product support for the 17th year in a row by Pro Pilot [Professional Pilot] magazine.
This recognition is particularly important because aftermarket support is a critical factor in new helicopter purchase decisions and therefore is a significant competitive advantage for Bell.
At Textron Systems revenues were down slightly in the quarter while we maintained double digit margins.
Systems also received important recognition for excellent service support as our Shadow Tactical Unmanned Aircraft System program was named the best performance base logistics implementation by the Department of Defense.
And on the international front we made our first UAS shipment to Sweden during the quarter.
At our Finance segment we had another excellent quarter of execution on a non-captive exit strategy reducing our amount of Receivables portfolio by $485 million.
This now brings our total portfolio down to $4.1 billion with the non-captive portion decreasing to $1.9 billion.
Within the non-Captive portfolio Golf Mortgage is down to about $820 million and Timeshare dropped to about $620 million.
Moving to the Industrial businesses operating performance was solid again.
We achieved a 90-basis point improvement in margins as revenues were up at Kautex Greenlee and Jacobsen.
While the situation in Japan did not have a material impact on volumes in the first quarter we have been notified by a number of our auto OEM customers that they will be affected in the second quarter.
These customers are indicating that they expect second quarter production slowdowns will be substantially made up in the second half of the year.
Therefore we do not expect these issues to materially affect our outlook for the full year.
On the business development for industrial during the quarter Greenlee purchased a 51% stake in Shanghai Endura Tools Company a distributor of professional tools for the home centers constructions industrial manufacturing automotive channels with over 1 000 distribution points in China.
This should allow us to accelerate our expansion of our Tool business throughout China.
To wrap up the quarter we're seeing signs of recovery in our commercial aircraft markets at both Bell and Cessna.
We posted strong results at Bell Industrial and Systems reflecting success from our operating execution across productivity efforts.
At Cessna we'll continue these efforts that are required to deliver superior financial results in the business and we had a good progress in our wind down strategy at Finance.
Overall we remain on track for our full year EPS outlook between $1 and $1.15 and cash flow before pension contributions of $800 million to $850 million.
With that I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Segment profit in the quarter was $123 million up $27 million from the first quarter of 2010.
This reflected an increase of $13 million across the Manufacturing segments and a $14 million improvement in Finance segment loss.
The Finance segment improvement reflected lower loan-loss provisions and lower operating expenses partially offset by lower interest margin on the reduced portfolio of finance receivables and higher portfolio losses.
Looking at Slide 5 nonaccrual finance receivables decreased from $850 million to $836 million while 60-day-plus delinquencies increased slightly to $418 million from $411 million.
Charge-offs in the first quarter were $16 million compared with $24 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
At Cessna revenues were up $123 million on new jet deliveries as Scott mentioned.
We posted an operating loss of $38 million which compared to a $24 million loss in last quarter's first -- or last year's first quarter.
This decline reflected a number of items including lower deposit forfeiture income higher engineering and development costs and inflation which more than offset profit contribution from the higher revenue.
At Bell revenues were up $131 million and segment profit increased $17 million.
Segment profit increased as the impact from higher military production and deliveries more than offset increased research and development costs.
At Textron Systems revenue was down $13 million primarily due to lower ASP aftermarket services.
Segment profit was down $2 million on the lower revenue.
At Industrial revenues were up $78 million on higher volumes generating an increase in segment profit of $12 million.
On a capital structure front we ended the quarter with $4.7 billion in net debt down $352 million from the end of the year which you can see on Slide 6.
Last month we established a new Textron credit facility with a $1 billion undrawn line.
We also continued to pay down the TFC bank line ending the quarter at $1.2 billion outstanding.
We expect to retire the balance of the TFC line well in advance of the April 2012 due date as proceeds from further liquidation to TFC cash flow from manufacturing operations and a quarter-end cash balance of $1 billion should be more than sufficient to do so.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we're ready to take questions.
Katie?[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Peter Skibitski from SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> I was wondering if you could give us some more color on Cessna profitability.
Can you tell us how much forfeiture income you had this quarter versus the prior year quarter and maybe quantify how much R&amp;D and inflation impacted? Sure and we can give you a couple of the big categories Peter.
Engineering was about $9 million higher in the quarter than it was a year ago.
Forfeiture deposits were lower by about $9 million than they were a year ago.
Used aircraft write-downs were about $3.5 million to $4 million worse than they were a year ago.
So those are some of the items I’d kind of mention.
It's a bit of a laundry list of things but that's the bulk of it.
Inc.</strong> Sure.
You're still expecting profit at Cessna for the year? I think you guided to 1% to 3%? Yes we are.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Will Q2 be profitable do you expect? Again it ties into the number of deliveries but I think it will be somewhere in that breakeven area.
Inc.</strong> Okay okay.
And then lastly and I'll move aside.
The new Union contract at Cessna looks pretty good on paper and you have the Mexico facility ramping up.
So it seems like your cost should be down materially I would say.
But do you think the full effect of the Union contract hasn't really come through yet? Or are the guys kind of struggling with implementing that? Can you give us some color there? Well I can give you some color there.
I mean this is where I sort of refer to some things disappoint here but the Mexico thing for instance I think is a significant play for us.
I think we have to recognize a lot of stuff is in the transitioning process.
Some parts are completely transitioned.
An awful lot of stuff is still in process and obviously in many cases particularly these aircraft early on in the cycle are actually aircraft that have a lot of parts that were built in a higher-cost labor place because we actually built ahead to then be able to transition to tooling to get it down to Mexico to make that transition happen.
So you're certainly not seeing the full effects of what we're trying to do in terms of transitioning some of that high-labor content work down into Mexico.
In terms of the labor agreement I think we will see -- obviously we will see benefit in terms of both productivity as well as having some relief here of not having escalating labor cost.
But again I think you will see more impact of that as we start to bring more people back in as we start to increase production rates.
But these aircraft obviously have been built still in pretty well the trough of where we are in terms of overall production rates.
Inc.</strong> Okay okay.
So we'll see the Mexico impact maybe flow through in the second half of the year and...
I would expect so yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay okay okay.
Thanks very much.
And our next question comes from the line of Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
This is actually Kevin Boone calling in for Heidi.
I had a question on Bell just given the flat results in the quarter what do you expect going through the year? And I think there was a relatively positive helicopter conference you had done in Orlando and would you see some of that carry through throughout the remainder of the year? Yes we absolutely do feel good about where we are on the Bell commercial side of things.
The flat deliveries in the quarter I think you would really look at this and say that the commercial market really started to move towards the latter part of next year.
We started to accumulate actually some backlog.
We feel good and continued to accumulate that as we went through the first quarter.
Heli-Expo obviously an important part of that and we do expect that we're going to continue to see a good ramp up in terms of commercial deliveries throughout the balance of the year.
So we will come out -- I'm very confident we're going to end up with higher deliveries in 2011 than we had in 2010.
So I think the first quarter being flat just in terms of the numbers of aircraft is not something that is a worry to me or something that I would interpret in a very big way.
We're going to see continued growth in our Commercial business as we ramp through the year.
And how about on the after-market side? What did you guys see in the quarter for the commercial side? I'm not sure I have that number right in front of me but I mean flight hours have been strong.
So I think we -- I don't want to give you the wrong number here.
Aftermarket was up a bit so we continued to see some improvement in that area.
Great.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr from Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> Yes.
Thank you so much.
Could you comment on where the cash conversion was of the liquidations of TFC? In the quarter it was about 92% Cai.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And your expectation for the year? Well as we kind of keep saying and I know it hasn't happened yet but we do expect as we get through some of these other assets it's going to get -- it's going to degrade over the year.
But in the first quarter it was pretty strong.
We had a sale of a number of receivables in our amortizing pool on the resort side that went at a very high level which helped to keep the number pretty high here in the first quarter and we'll continue to see some of those sorts of transactions.
But it's clearly going to trend down into the 80s even the 70s I think over the course of the year Cai.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And could you give us some color on the impact that the CR has had and the tough budget environment we're in and of how you look at both at Systems and Bell on the military side? Sure.
In terms of the CR I would not say that we had any programs that were directly impacted necessarily by the CR.
But I think what we've seen happening Cai is a number of new program opportunities particularly in the Systems business where we're going through the usual process where the government’s issued RFIs and then they’re issuing RFPs and going through that proposal valuation process.
Whether it's directly because of the CR situation or just frankly a lot of things going on in the building with respect to working now on the '12 budgets and dealing with all of the churn that’s going on a number of those things have just been delayed.
I don't think those programs are going away but some of them are clearly sliding to the right just in terms of the time lines that the government articulated with respect to those programs.
And you know that business Cai I mean it's not unusual for that to happen but I think it's being -- it's happening more driven by a lot of the churn around the CR and just the budget challenges they have in total.
So again from my perspective no direct impact and the programs that we're following that we're bidding on I don't believe are impacted in terms of will the program happen.
But we're seeing some things slide to the right.
On the Bell side we really haven't seen any impact to be honest with you.
Obviously the multi-year MV-22 has continued to move right along.
The H-1 funding has been solid and we're delivering at our forecasted production rate.
So on the Bell side we really at a macro level haven't really seen any impact on the CRs at this point.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Stallard with RBC.
LLC</strong> Thanks very much.
Scott I was wondering if we could start on Cessna.
The backlog was down again this quarter.
There's a lot of moving parts here.
But what's your thought on when we might see the inflection point in the backlog? Well Rob I think it's going to be to the latter part of this year.
I mean we are as I said seeing -- we did see more growth orders up a good bit in the first quarter.
The market is clearly coming back.
I would say it's coming back slower than we would like.
And I think a lot of the uncertainties out there with oil and economies and conflicts have slowed things a bit.
But the encouraging part is that the orders are starting to flow and certainly the customer activity and discussions are happening.
It's just taken a while to bring things to total closure.
So that's why we say our color at least as we look at the year is that we still feel pretty good about the demand being where we expected it to be to meet our commitments in terms of the number of deliveries.
But realistically at this point I mean it's not like the thing is rushing back.
So I would say that getting to a point where you start to build positive backlog versus the order rates that we see and obviously the aircraft that we're selling as we go through the year I think it's going to be best case towards the latter part of the year before you would see any real change in backlog.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And secondly at Textron Systems you noted that ASV aftermarket was down year-on-year in the quarter.
What's the trend like here? Is this a one-off occurrence partly relating to CR or something or are we starting to see this trending down going forward? I mean I think just part of that is timing.
I wouldn't read too much into that.
I think the opportunities that we're really looking at in terms of the ASV business over the next year 2 years to 3 years almost is really becoming more a function of bringing in new contracts and foreign opportunities.
And we still feel pretty good about that.
And we did announce a deal here in the quarter.
We've seen some options exercise.
So at least I think over the next couple of years that business is still in pretty solid shape.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thanks very much.
Our next question is coming from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Scott just to follow up on that in terms of Cessna could you give some color in terms of what you're seeing maybe by geography or product line? I mean I've certainly heard that the domestic market seems to be picking up a bit.
Are you seeing corporates come back to the market and look at -- potentially looking at refreshing their fleet after having put it off for a couple of years at this point? We are.
As I said the geography of this thing is pretty broad.
We see a lot of activity in Asia in Latin America Europe actually quite a number of inquiries and the U.S.
does seem to be coming back as well.
One of the things that we're struggling a bit with is in the U.S.
obviously the bonus deprecation is helping to incent some people back into the market.
And I think those deals are going to happen.
One of the challenges that we have is trying to get them not to all want to happen in the fourth quarter.
And in fact we're already having conversations with customers that basically says "Look guys we can't deliver all the aircraft in November/December." We're sort of filling up those slots.
So we're going to start getting people to take earlier deliveries just because we'll run out of capacity to physically do the delivery process towards the end of the year but -- so yes I mean I think the geography is very broad based.
It's not just one region of the world.
We're seeing folks and I think a lot of it is folks were getting to a point where they’d say "Look normally we would have done our refreshes and our upgrades 2 years ago a year ago and it's time to get on with it." And then on the used aircraft side could you give a little bit of color of what's going on there where you are in terms of used aircraft inventories relative to where you were last year? And is some of this being driven by you at all by you giving used aircraft or trade-in kind of guaranties and taking a hit on that just some color there? Well in terms of the trade-ins I mean there still are some trade-ins happening but certainly any time that we would look at a trade-in with respect to sort of reference to an over trade right where -- I mean if we're going to give somebody a trade that's more than the aircraft is worth I mean that hits our P&amp;L right away because we mark these things as you know every quarter to what the actual asset value is.
So we generally don't do that.
To the extent we do it it's totally transparent because you see that hit the P&amp;L immediately.
In terms of dynamics in the used aircraft market we feel pretty good about where it's going and we sold two used aircraft I think in the first quarter of '10 and we sold 11 in the first quarter of '11.
So the used market has clearly come back to life.
You see that reflected in the number of aircraft available for sale.
So that's certainly been a very positive trend.
And as you look at where we were in terms of the number of units our inventory actually went down a little bit sequentially from the end of the year to where we are now because we were able to sell 11 aircraft in the quarter.
Okay thanks a lot.
I’ll get back in the queue.
Our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
This is Mayur in for Carter.
Scott you talked about the guidance overall top line guidance.
I was just wondering were there any changes within the segments that set out either revenues or margins.
No we really don't see anything materially different as you look across the segments.
I mean we expect kind of a question around Cessna given the loss in the first quarter but we still think we'll get that back to the range that we guided.
Okay.
And on Industrial margins in the quarter were pretty good.
You've been trending recently above what you were doing through the 2000s.
How much better do you think you can do in terms of industrial margins looking forward? Well the Industrial margins I think we're pretty pleased with where they are.
I think when you look at the mix of businesses there’s still opportunities for improvement.
On the other hand I always kind of caution a little bit remember that the automotive market tends to be very strong in the first half of the year and tends to soften just in terms of the volume the build the number of manufacturing days.
I mean we're obviously on the Kautex side very tied to what's going on with the auto OEMs.
So the first quarter is usually the strongest for them.
I'm expecting the second quarter to be a little weaker just given that we're expecting some OEM softness with the Japan impact.
But again and hopefully picking some of that back up in the third and fourth quarter.
So I don't think that the margin rate you see is not one I would extrapolate for the full year.
Auto will be just seasonally -- I mean I don't think you'll have a different characteristic if you look at historically how we've done in terms of the Industrial business and volume and margin through the course of the year.
I was just thinking a bit longer term because I think back in the 2000s the margins were about 10%.
It was high-single digits mid-single digits through most of the last decade.
And I was just wondering whether or not we can see those sort of 10% sort of come back.
Mayur the composition of our Industrial business back in 2000 is much different than it is now.
Not to mention that the characteristics of the Auto the Component business are also different.
But I think that as we've said before we can trend to the high-single digits in this business and that's going to generate 20%-type returns on capital.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citigroup.
That's actually Jon Raviv in for Jason.
Just a quick question you mentioned some of the delays you're seeing in Systems within the DoD.
I was wondering if you had any specific examples of what programs you're seeing delayed and if you expect that process to improve or if it still seems kind of slow.
Well I think when you look at some of the larger programs we're going to be bidding on a Ship-to-Shore Connector which is a big program in our Marine &amp; Land Systems business.
That's a pretty sizeable program.
It has gone through the RFI.
It's kind of waiting now for the formal RFP to come out.
So I'd say that's one that has been sort of just delayed and hung up I think primarily driven by pretty senior people in the Pentagon being pretty busy running around working on these other budget issues.
Again I think it's a program that's from a budget perspective our indication we get is it's in good shape.
It's a necessary program.
It's going to happen.
It's just going through some delay.
So that's probably the biggest.
There are some recap programs on Humvee's in both the Marine Corp and the Army which similarly I think are just sort of delayed in terms of getting around to getting the process moving.
Do you guys plan on bidding on the Humvee reset? We do.
All right.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Access 342.
I wanted to pursue a little bit more the CJ4.
Are you not on the learning curve that you want to be on? Are you just seeing higher inflation affecting cost or is the pricing still reflecting the early orders that you have? So just trying to get a little more color as to what's actually going on there.
Well George It's really more of a cost issue than anything.
I think when we laid out the program the CJ3 was as you would imagine was a product that was used to do most of the shared cost analysis based on that because it's sort of a delta from that.
And the reality is the cost for most of the key components have come in at a higher level than we would have forecast based on our modeling of what it should cost based on where we were with the CJ3.
So I don't think this is a -- it's not as simple as simply hey guys after we get a few more aircraft going through here the labor hours will go.
It really is -- a lot of that product is purchase material cost which is coming in too high and the solution is not complicated either.
It's just sort of blocking and tackling and going back through all those key components of the cost a lot of which is purchase and sitting down with those suppliers and saying "Look this cost is out of line compared to what we buy from you on other programs" and hammering our way through that.
So it's not particularly complicated or a lot of science involved here.
It's just going back and really kind of realizing where we are on the cost of that program.
It's not where we need to be and hammering away at it one day at a time.
Okay yes because you kind of adjust for all the numbers that you've said the incremental margins are pretty low for the business and it seems like it's got to be related to that CJ4.
Well there is no doubt George.
I mean the first quarter of 2010 we had none.
And I think we had 8 in the first quarter of this year.
So when you're talking about sort of an $8 million $9 million airplane so there there's a fair bit of revenue in there that does not have the gross margins that we're accustomed to having in the light to mid-sized jet market.
Okay.
And then Frank you had mentioned that the aftermarket was up at Cessna.
Could you just be a little more specific as to how much and how about -- same with Bell the aftermarket? Yes.
We said the aftermarket the commercial aftermarket at Bell was what I said was up a bit in a kind of single digit lower-single digit-type numbers and Cessna was a bit stronger than that on the revenue side in the aftermarket.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Thank you.
Just for starters can you give us some idea of how much of the Cessna backlog is deliverable in '12 and beyond? I don't think we publish that Jeff.
I guess second question Scott is just a little bit more of kind of the body language on how customers are behaving.
You're talking about inquiries picking up and you mentioned a little bit maybe a fire drill again in Q4.
I mean Q4 last year seems unusual right? I mean it was 44% of your deliveries were in Q4.
It's always your biggest quarter but that was kind of way out of balance relative to what's normal.
And that seemed like kind of a rush to get bonus depreciation before it went away.
I don't think anybody is going to think it's going to be extended again for '12.
So I'm not sure why we would have that fire drill at the end of Q4 again.
Is it just the timing of people's cash flows that they want to delay that delivery as long as possible or is there something else going on there? Well I think it is mostly just people saying "Look I want to make sure I get it done this year to take advantage of it." And obviously some customers want to take aircraft now.
They want to do it.
So those that were thinking well maybe I could wait 'til later on it they want it they’re incented to try to get it done this year.
I think that what was particularly strange about our profile last year Jeff was as you recall we had a very light third quarter and then a very heavy fourth quarter.
And so what we're already trying to work on is say “Guys we just don't want to go through that again.” So we're working with customers and say "Look guys we just can't do a fourth quarter delivery.
We need to move some of these back into the third quarter and not end up with that very difficult hockey stick at the end of the year." So I think fourth quarter will be a heavy quarter which is good but I do think the issue that really if I look at last year we were too light in the third quarter.
We need to move some of that volume back and get some of that delivery done.
And look the reality is that the order flow and the level of customer activity is considerably stronger than it was in this time last year.
If you remember last year we got into this time of year and basically conversation stopped based on the euro crisis and sovereign debt and all that sort of stuff.
We haven't seen that this year.
Even though there are some challenges out there the conversations are happening.
So I would expect we will bring a lot more deals to closure earlier on in the year than we did last year where the market at Cessna and the business jet like this really kind of went quiet for 6 months before it started to pick up again in really the October kind of time frame.
And those conversations are happening now.
So I would expect from a timing perspective we won't -- we're obviously not planning on seeing that period of no activity and therefore very light deliveries in the third quarter of the year.
And then just finally from me you're not going to preannounce new products on this call but can you give us a sense of the magnitude of the R&amp;D increase in the quarter and how that might play out over the balance of the year? Yes the R&amp;D increase in the quarter was about $9 million.
And I would expect to see those kind of impacts in every quarter throughout the balance of the year.
Very much.
And our next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell with Crédit Suisse.
Yes thanks.
My first question was just about the inflation cost headwinds you mentioned that had hurt Cessna's margins in Q1.
Can you talk a little bit about how that splits out maybe between materials and labor and how you see those moving? You talked about labor earlier but maybe on any kind of non-labor inflation what your sort of core expectations are in your guidance for the balance of the year? I would say material/labor is probably in the 50-50 kind of range.
It's a number on the order of around $6 million total.
So it's not an overwhelming number but those are roughly Julian where the numbers are.
And when you think about the delta of sort of the input costs and the output price on deliveries how do you see that moving for the balance of this year versus what you had in Q1? Well I think we've seen some price stabilization as I said in most models as we've come into the year.
I think we will see some modest positive pricing through the balance of the year and we had some allowance programs and discount programs were done in the latter part of the year which have stopped and are stopping.
So I think we will actually probably yield a little bit better pricing through the balance of this year.
On the input cost side I mean we obviously had some come through on the material side some of the things we're obviously doing around CJ4 and other programs is going back to a lot of that supply base on the material side and trying to drive some productivity there and push back some of that inflation.
And as you can imagine the conversations with our suppliers is that we haven't seen pricing power over the last couple of years in the industry.
There’s no reason why we think you should be seeing some pricing power with us.
But obviously that's a negotiation that goes on supplier-by-supplier and sometimes part-by-part.
Okay thanks.
And then just a follow-up on TFC what sort of provision expectations have you got for this year? I mean how has that changed I guess in the last few months? In terms of -- what kind of provisions Julian? Well I mean Q1 they were...
You mean for the $12 million in provisions for losses? Yes.
I mean the thing that you have to be careful about on finance and we still expect kind of the same loss range that we had talked about of $140-ish million is depending on how things get liquidated it can either end up in provision or end up in a portfolio loss or charge-off.
So those numbers really kind of move around depending on how things end up being liquidated.
So you kind of have to -- I'd focus on kind of the total numbers.
Got it.
And our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Scott maybe within the 1% to 3% margin range for Cessna are we -- given the 1Q results and CJ4 and inflation you're seeing are we squarely at the low end? I'm just trying to reconcile if 2Q is breakeven the implied back end for the mid or the high end seems like a little bit of a stretch unless Mexico productivity comes through or you get better pricing.
Just curious what you're seeing within that range.
Well I mean I don't think there's any question considering the level of loss in the first quarter that it's more likely to hit towards the 1% than the 3% at this point.
But I guess that we're still very early on in the year.
And I think there’s still a lot to be understood in terms of dynamics of the recovery and how much pricing power’s out there and things like that so it's probably a little early in the year to try to go on record and narrow the guidance range if you will between 1% and 3% I guess at this point.
And then your assumption or you're suggesting that the pickup in demand would be coming in the back half of the year and backlog book-to-bill potentially turning above one towards the end of the year.
Is that in any way predicated on new aircraft products in the market spurring some order to pickup? No.
I think that's just going to be the sort of the flow of the year and predicated really on just our expectations in terms of the recovery kind of building momentum as you go through the end of the year.
It's really not built around any new product launch that’s going to generate a big future year's backlog if you will.
Okay.
So it would be book-to-bill above 1% on the current big book of business that you're doing? That's where we'd like to be.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
And our next question comes from the line of Steve Tusa from JPMorgan.
Just first quickly on Bell.
The V-22 is obviously up very nicely and I'm not sure what the price is on that.
We have it around $40 million for you guys kind of on a booked basis per aircraft.
Is that right? That's not correct Steve.
It's lower than that.
But always remember that we're generating revenues outside of the OE delivery as well.
Right.
So I mean I'm just curious why weren't Bell revenues a little bit better with the big ramp in V-22s? Is there something in Bell that was down materially within mix in the commercial aircraft? I'm just curious.
There was lower spare and support on the military side in the first quarter Steve.
Okay.
And then just on Cessna as far as the inquiries are concerned are you -- has the dynamic changed a bit with Embraer where these inquiries you're seeing people come but it's a much more of a -- relative to the previous cycle it's much of a I guess competition-heavy discussion where previously you had a customer base that was I don't know 80% of your sales went to your existing customer base whatever I think that was the number you used to put out there.
How has that changed now with Embraer kind of in the mix here? And also just what was the realized price in the quarter at Cessna? So in terms of the color of the discussions Steve I don't see any different dynamic when we're running -- working with a customer that's in space of a certain size of aircraft.
I mean generally speaking these are all competitive transactions.
If it's a CJ4 discussion you have a customer that's also looking at a Phenom 300.
If it's a Sovereign discussion it's somebody that's looking at a Hawker.
So I mean it's really -- I don't think that there has been any real change in the dynamic in the marketplace.
I mean we have always had even when you're talking about a CJ4 there’s Lears in there and there's Hawkers in there so it's -- I don't know that it's very different in that regard.
I would say what's different this year is we actually see deals come all the way to closure which is encouraging.
And I think we're winning our fair share of that stuff.
So we feel pretty good about that in a competitive environment.
And I would say I think in the first quarter Cessna realized price was probably pretty flat not really -- not a lot one way or the other.
And you expect -- is the backlog have more negative price in it or is this -- are we at kind of a trough-y levels from a price perspective? I think we're at pretty trough-y levels.
I think as we look at some of the deliveries that are going to be happening over the balance of the year the price of backlog looks a little bit better.
But obviously there is still slots to fill too.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
And our next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein from Bank of America.
Kind of back to Cessna again sorry about kind of beating this horse but when you look at the demand where you're seeing kind of more tire-kicking from customers now can you speak what part of the world is it coming from? Is it generally North America or is it Europe Latin America but can you speak to that? Ron it really is pretty balanced.
We have a number of deals that are going down in Indonesia.
We have a number of transactions in Latin America Eastern Europe.
We actually have a number of deals that are in the works right now in France and Germany.
And the U.S.
market as I said is also coming back.
So it really is pretty broad-based.
I'd say the U.K.
right now is still very quiet if I had to pick a country where there is really not much going on.
But as I said other Western European and Eastern European countries are there.
Little bit of activity in the Middle East but it really is pretty broad-based.
And on that point and this is kind of the next question on the Middle East given what has happened there have you seen a slowdown or activity there kind of go on ice a little bit because of the instability in the region? I mean I try to think like every place there's a little bit of a slowdown and reluctance in some of these things.
But I would kind of have to say that Yemen and Libya were not big markets for Cessna.
They actually are markets for Bell.
And so we've seen probably a little slowdown maybe in some foreign military opportunities in some of those places but not of a material impact at this point.
Okay.
And then one more back on Cessna when you look at the Cessna product offering and where you are having customer conversations is it at the lower end of the product line kind of the mid to high I guess what I'm asking is how are the XLS and the Sovereign doing? XLS and Sovereign are doing well.
Actually there is probably as much or more demand there than even in say the Mustang side.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
And our next question comes from the line of Steve Levenson with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
On the new multi-year agreement you're negotiating for V-22 do you see any impact in terms of quantity or timing based on the budget situation? I guess I would have to say I don't think so.
The negotiations are underway or discussions I should say are underway.
We understand what we need to do from a pricing standpoint to get the authorization for another multiyear.
I think that we feel pretty confident that we will get there.
The rates that have always been envisioned in that second multiyear are lower than the rates that we have today on the first multiyear but again that's something that we've always understood.
And you're talking out in 2015-'16 kind of time frame so there’s actually a lot of discussion with our customer and other prospective customers on what we do in terms of that rate.
In other words there is room to be able to build some aircraft for customers other than our current customers.
And there is a number of opportunities for potential fits for that aircraft in other applications and we're pursuing those.
So in terms of just strictly speaking the multi-year with the Marine Corps I'd say we're making good progress.
I think we will get there.
It will be slightly lower production rates than what we have today but we have a number of opportunities to fill that up to continue to be able to run at the capacity that we have.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks.
And in terms of the other customers you mentioned are those other U.S.
customers or foreign customers? It's a mix actually.
There are a number of other applications within the U.S.
DoD and there are expressions of interest on behalf of some foreign militaries for fleets of V-22s.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks.
And just going back to Cessna there was the recent Shanghai Show.
Do you have any commentary from what's going on in China? I'm not sure I have anything in particular.
I mean we still expect that market to continue to open up.
We had some good deliveries there last year.
We still certainly see that as a market that's going to be emerging for both Cessna and Bell.
And as I said we've had pretty good luck selling into there over the last year or so and we're also making some investments in the country in terms of expanding our service footprint to make sure that we have more presence within China not only to sell but also to support our aircraft as that fleet grow.
So we're over there and we're working it pretty hard.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Thanks very much.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Jacoby with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks for taking my question.
Quick questions around Textron Finance just with liquidations.
Do you expect liquidations to actually cover the total bank debt reduction for this year or do you expect to have to perhaps dividend money from the parent? But based on your guidance it looks like the answer is no.
It looks like meaning you won't have to dividend money and that you're expecting liquidations to cover the entire sum.
Is that the right way to think about it? No well certainly liquidations will cover a very meaningful piece of the bank debt pay-down.
But as we've said we are effectively also continuing to in part finance TFC through intercompany lending from the parent.
And so we will continue to see the intercompany loan which was about almost $400 million at the end of the first quarter.
That will continue to build throughout the year as well as we pay off that bank loan.
Okay.
So it's not the guidance around the capital contributions of $190 million and dividends of $210 million we should think of those loans going forward just completely separated.
So it's going to be a loan item number that you'll get back in what 2012 2013? Yes I mean that then pays down as we continue to reduce the size of the portfolio.
It's just more efficient for us kind of to be effectively financing at the parent level if you will than having TFC go out and try and access capital on its own for this interim period of time because we have this kind of just timing differential between how things are liquidating relative to some of that bank debt pay-down.
But we will not need additional capital into TFC.
You’ve got to separate the cash discussion from your base premise which is correct.
We will not need to make a capital contribution.
Okay.
And then more of a housekeeping item what exactly is the short-term debt increase at the parent company? We've begun to access the commercial paper market.
As we've continued to reduce debt and stabilize the balance sheet we wanted to just get back into that market to kind of have the ability to help us deal with just short-term working capital swings.
So obviously our first quarter as we said is typically a user of cash on the manufacturing side it just helps even out those working capital swings.
Okay and with that I guess if that's something that down the road you're going to hopefully continue to be able to use any dialogue with the rating agencies in terms of maybe improving the ratings just given where you are from a ratings perspective? I would imagine CP is an area where you have access but as a A2/P2 it's kind of tough.
Or actually are you an A2/P2 at this point? Yes.
Yes.
And look we've seen good receptivity there.
We're not looking to kind of build that program in a very substantial way.
Again it's going to be relatively modest and just help us with working capital swings.
As you might imagine we have regular dialog with the rating agencies.
We think we've made very good progress on kind of our debt reduction and improvement in our financial ratios and the rating agencies will move at whatever pace they decide to move at.
But I think they are encouraged by the progress that we have made.
And we continue to believe we'll make further progress.
Okay great.
Thank you.
All right.
And I'm sorry it's A3/P3.
Yes.
Right.
And if we got upgraded back to where we were we'd go back to A2/P2.
Just to give you a sense again we're talking about a couple hundred million dollars in the CP market just to re-establish ourselves.
We don't have any intention of going back to using the CP as a primary funding vehicle like we were doing in the financial service days right? This will be purely the way companies like ours would normally use the CP market for working capital and then the dollars we're talking about are easily supported by the size of that market for an A2/P2 issuer.
And we have a follow-up question from Peter Skibitski with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Guys the Systems margin in the first quarter was really good especially compared to your guidance.
Can you remind me what's going to happen the rest of the year that's going to make that trend down? Or maybe you'd like to adjust that? Well I think that the Systems business is going to be a little lumpy as we go through the year with programs and deliveries particularly some blocks of out of a couple of our more profitable segments.
So I would not use that margin rate this year and say hey that's a total upward provision to that guidance or sustain that.
It's going to be a -- that number’s going to move around.
I think we'll stay a good double-digit business but it's going to move around over the course of the year from quarter-to-quarter.
Inc.</strong> Is Sensor Fuzed Weapon is that the big mover there? Well Sensor Fuzed Weapons is one of the ones that moves it around.
And we will have some quarters this year where we have some and we're going to have some quarters where we don't have any.
So that will be one of the contributors as we go.
It was not a big contributor in the first quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay okay.
And then just a couple of housekeeping are you expecting a 31% tax rate still? Yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And still 55 to sixty 429 deliveries for the year? Yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thanks guys.
And our next follow-up question is from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> Yes.
Given your sales looked a little light in Systems and you had the budget delays can you still get to $2.2 billion for the year or near that? Cai I would -- of all the segments I look at that's one that I worry about just because we are seeing some pushouts on some of these programs.
So we feel pretty good where our margin rates are.
But if there’s one that's going to be one we'll watch closely just in terms of softness at the top line it's going to be Systems.
And again it's just -- it really is just some of these programs that are pushing out where we would have expected some of them to get under contract.
And I'm not sure we'll get under contract by the end of this year.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I think you said a near breakeven at Cessna in the second quarter and for the full year you could still do near $3 billion and 1% to 3% margins.
Did I hear that correctly? That's correct.
LLC</strong> But that really implies quite a hockey stick in the third and the fourth quarter.
I mean if we take the midpoint that would really imply margins about 5% in the third and the fourth quarter.
Is there anything happening beyond somewhat greater volume I mean R&amp;D mitigates or anything else? No.
I mean it's really more driven by just volume and performance through the balance of the year Cai.
But you're right.
This is going to be a -- it's going to be a hockey stick.
And obviously as I said one of the things we're got to do is try to figure out how to make it not be a predominantly fourth quarter hockey stick and try to drive as much back into the third quarter as we can.
LLC</strong> What does that say about 2012 if anything for Cessna? Cai I haven't spent a lot of time on 2012 just yet to be perfectly honest with you.
But I mean as we watch the order backlog build over the course of the year obviously we'll get a lot more insight into that.
And there’s no question a lot of customers we are talking to are looking at orders that are in all likelihood going to be 2012 deliveries.
LLC</strong> Got it.
Thank you very much.
All right.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes our call today.
Thanks for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:00 a.m.
today through July 19 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive replay system at anytime by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 186398.
International participants dial 320-365-3844.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to Textron Second Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Doug Wilburne Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Ruth and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Moving now to first quarter results which appear on Slide 3 of the presentation.
Revenues in the quarter were $2.7 billion up 0.7% from a year ago which yielded earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.29 compared to income of $0.27 in the second quarter of 2010.
Last year's results included $0.02 in special charges.
Second quarter manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was $171 million compared to $186 million during last year's second quarter.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start by saying results in the second quarter improved over first quarter including a return to operating profitability of Cessna primarily reflecting an increase in aircraft deliveries and aftermarket volumes.
As you know at the end of May we hired Scott Ernest as the new CEO at Cessna.
And we're excited to have Scott on board.
His strong leadership his deep industry experience and focus on talent development should have a meaningful impact on growth and performance success going forward.
He's already implemented a regular integrated operations review cadence focused on improving the accountability and cross-functional coordination in the business.
On the market front we saw an increase in gross orders from both the first quarter and last year's second quarter.
Availability of used Citations also continue to improve dropping to 13.7% of the installed fleet from 14% in the last quarter and a high in the cycle of 17.3%.
Aircraft usage was also up in the quarter with average daily utilization reaching 0.71 hours compared 0.68 last quarter and a year ago.
The higher usage also helped drive an increase in our aftermarket revenues in the quarter.
Based on overall customer activity and the availability of U.S.
bonds depreciation tax treatment for orders placed by the end of the year we're still planning for full year jet deliveries to be slightly higher than last year.
Moving to Bell.
Performance was particularly strong with second quarter margins of 13.8% reflecting solid execution especially on our military program ramp-ups.
We delivered 9 V-22s and H-1s versus 8 V-22s and 3 H-1s in the second quarter of 2010.
Looking into the future we've begun a number of preliminary discussions with potential foreign military customers for these 2 aircraft and we continue to discuss the next multiyear contract with our U.S.
DoD customer.
Our OH-58 Kiowa Warrior upgrade program is also progressing as we delivered the first A2D replacement cabin to the army.
This is the first of 19 cabin conversions under contract.
And we're currently working with the army on potential new cabins to replace those units in the fleet that have incurred wartime damage.
The Kiowa Warrior platform is important to the Army and we're making investments to modernize the design to meet the army's future requirements.
In fact last month our OH-58 Block II prototype demonstrators successfully proved hover out of ground effect at maximum gross weight of 5 500 pounds and an altitude of 6 000 feet in a 95 degree environment a critical milestone for this project.
On the commercial side of the business we delivered 22 commercial helicopters in the quarter up from 21 a year ago.
And we're working a significant number of active prospects around the world.
Customers' interest was decidedly better at this year's Paris Air Show as we signed contracts for 18 aircraft.
We also displayed our new 407GX and 407 AH models at the show.
This marked the beginning of an international tour for the GX and the AH highlighting their capabilities to customers in Europe and the Middle East.
These helicopters are receiving positive feedback and interest from customers worldwide.
On the aftermarket front Bell continues to expand its service footprint.
Last month we broke ground on a new joint Bell Cessna service facility in Singapore which will support our growing base in Asia.
Expanding our service footprint enables us to continue to provide top-ranked service capabilities to our customers wherever they fly around the world.
Overall our commercial helicopter outlook is promising as we leverage our market-leading customer support with our renewed commitment to new product development.
The Textron Systems revenues were down in the quarter primarily reflecting lower UAS deliveries and lower mission support volume.
Much of the lower UAS revenue was really the timing of programs throughout the year and we continue to expect full year systems revenues in nearly $2 billion.
On the ASV front we were awarded an undefinitized contract for 440 units from the Afghan National Army.
The base contract calls for 240 ASVs.
The program also includes options for another 200 vehicles as well as options for training and logistics support through 2014.
In total the contract and options are worth $525 million.
Moving to our Finance segment.
We reduced our operating loss to $33 million in the quarter an improvement of $38 million from a year ago.
We liquidated $317 million of financial receivables during the quarter reducing our total portfolio to $3.8 billion with non-captive portion decreasing to $1.7 billion.
Obviously the pace of liquidation is slowing a bit as our remaining non-captive portfolio becomes smaller and the mix of assets have longer variations.
Going forward we will continue to actively liquidate the portfolio as quickly as possible balancing economics and risk mitigation.
Moving to Industrial.
Revenues were up slightly but volumes were approximately flat as we saw a modest automotive impact during the quarter due to events in Japan.
The higher revenues were primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange and operating performance was solid on a flat volume margins of 7.6%.
To wrap up the quarter we continued to make progress with downsizing our Finance business.
We posted solid results in Industrial and systems.
Bell's execution on the ramp up of V-22 and H-1 continues to be very favorable.
And at Cessna I believe we're taking the right actions to position this business for the future.
Across all of our businesses we continue to invest aggressively in new products and services.
And as we look to the rest of the year we expect commercial aircraft deliveries to be up significantly in the second half similar to last year.
As a result we continue to expect slightly higher full year deliveries versus 2010.
Overall we are on track for a full year EPS outlook of $1 to $1.15 and cash flow before pension contributions of between $800 million and $850 million.
With that I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Segment profit in the quarter was $196 million up $35 million from the second quarter of 2010.
Let's look at how each of the segments contributed to this improvement starting with Cessna.
At Cessna revenues were up $17 million on a year-over-year basis primarily due to growth in our aftermarket business.
Jet deliveries of 38 units were down from 43 in last year's second quarter.
We posted an operating profit of $5 million which compared to $3 million last year.
The improvement reflected profit on higher aftermarket sales partially offset by higher engineering and development costs.
At Bell revenues were up $49 million on higher deliveries.
Segment profit increased $12 million reflecting improved performance on the higher volume.
At Textron Systems revenue was down $82 million reflecting the lower UAS and mission support volume in the quarter.
Segment profit was down $21 million on the lower revenues.
At Industrial revenues were up $58 million primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange as volumes were essentially flat as Scott mentioned.
We generated an increase in segment profit of $4 million on the higher revenues.
Finance segment revenues were down $23 million reflecting our ongoing liquidation activities.
Our operating loss improvement of $38 million reflected lower loan loss provisions and lower operating expenses partially offset by lower interest margin on the reduced portfolio of finance receivables.
Looking at Slide 5 non-accrual finance receivables decreased from $836 million to $696 million and 60-day-plus delinquencies decreased to $302 million from $418 million.
Charge-offs in the second quarter were $38 million compared with $16 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Moving below the segment level.
Corporate expenses were $23 million up from $17 million last year primarily due to the impact of our share price add on compensation expense.
Interest expense was $38 million up $4 million from last year primarily the result of lower interest income from the TFC intercompany loan.
With respect to taxes our tax rate of 31.9% is up from last year's rate of 18.2% primarily because last year's second quarter benefited from a number of discrete foreign tax items.
On the cash flow front we contributed $189 million into our pension plan during the quarter.
We also reduced our TFC bank line by $690 million ending the quarter with a remaining balance of $500 million.
With our solid manufacturing cash flow and receivables liquidations we reduced our consolidated net debt by another $288 million ending the quarter at $4.4 billion of total debt which you can see on Slide 6.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we're ready to take your questions.
We do have a question from the line of Peter Skibitski with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> So I want to ask about Citation deliveries being down in the quarter year-over-year.
Would you say the market is weaker now than it was last year? Or do you think it's just a timing issue? Or would there be some other reason they'd be down? No I think the market Pete is modestly recovering.
I think our gross orders being improved both year-over-year and over the first quarter are good indications that it continues to improve.
We use the word stable.
It's not rocketing back I mean certainly the level of customer interest and number of orders we're able to book is improved over both those periods.
And it feels like that will continue.
So in terms of actual numbers I mean we're always going to -- I mean as you know our guidance for the year is to be slightly up.
So we're going to see a little bit of above and beyond on a quarter-to-quarter basis here.
But I don't think there's anything that is particularly concerning in that respect.
I think that's mostly just timing.
There has been a little bit of positive mix towards the larger aircraft than the smaller aircraft which is helpful to us particularly from a margin perspective.
So I would say that the market is continuing to behave about as we expected it for this year and with generally speaking modest improvement.
I'd just point out in a detail.
If you look at it the Mustang is what really drove the decrease.
In the larger cabin size in our markets it's certainly stronger on a delivery basis as well.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
What's your guys' sense of when cancellations will have trough? You're obviously still at getting some.
And I'm just wondering if we're at the bottom in that regard or what your perspective is on that.
Well I guess my perspective is that it is bottoming this year.
Right? I mean I would expect we will still see some trickle of cancellations through the balance of this year.
And I think that's probably just about it.
Most of the range of a lot of the long-term order books that were out there are pretty well drawn at this point.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
If I can sneak in one last one.
Can you make some comments about CJ4 profitability? You delivered the same this quarter as Q1.
Was the loss on those planes the same? Or have you been able to improve profitability on CJ4 already? I mean any comments there? Well CJ4 was modestly improved from last quarter.
We're coming down the learning curve in terms of our labor.
And so I think we're continuing to make progress there.
We have been working as we mentioned before with a number of our suppliers.
These are not things that turn overnight but I would say that we have come to terms with a number of suppliers in terms of trying to get the cost in line.
And that input stream if you will from those suppliers at a lower cost will sort of feather in over the balance of the year.
Inc.</strong> Would you be willing to say when you think it could turn positive? Well I mean I think we are positive in terms of what we generate in terms of the contribution margin rate but we'll see the number continue to improve through the course of the year.
Next we go to the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
I'm going to try the Cessna demand question a different way.
Last year early in the year you guys made some encouraging comments.
And then we had European sovereign debt and a 15% pullback in the equity market and everything shut off.
We've all kind of been sitting at our desks getting a slew of less positive macro data.
It sounds like your tone though is not really changing and that you haven't felt the impact of that.
You're still seeing things get better.
Is that the case? And maybe if you could even talk to kind of quarter-to-date very recent activity just so we can get a sense of whether or not things are changing because it's very dynamic.
Well I mean it is dynamic Noah.
And I wouldn't disagree with you.
I mean I think if you looked at how we felt last year through about the first 5 months of the year we're similar right? It was modest improvement over 2009 and you're absolutely right.
I mean from sort of June through the September October time frame the market just absolutely stopped.
And I think that was reflected in what our deliveries looked like in the third quarter last year.
It was very very tough to get any kind of a momentum in the marketplace.
I would say where we sit this year -- the reason I say look it's modestly improved right? It's not taking off.
But I certainly have not seen any indications in the market in terms of customer discussions and level of activity that would indicate that things are going to be like they were last year in sort of the June to September time frame the customer activity the rate of order.
Booking is maintaining positive momentum at this point.
I mean if something as dramatic as what happened at the macroeconomic level that happened last year of course the industry would be affected by that.
But I don't think it's reached that point.
And in terms of what's happening so far in the quarter Noah as we prepare for this call we obviously make sure that whatever comments we're going to make are as up-to-date as possible.
So when we say that we continue to see deliveries up slightly from last year that's based on the sentiment as it exists now.
Okay great.
And then on the margins there obviously that's dynamic as well with the changes you've made in the business.
We made a little money in the second quarter.
Can you maybe just help us with the progression there in the back half? Well Noah what we had indicated for guidance was 1% to 3% margins.
For Cessna we said on the last call we thought we'd be probably leaning towards the lower end of that range.
And I think that that's kind of still where we are the lower half of that range.
And kind of the progression will obviously depend on the delivery volume ramp that we expect to see.
But that's how the full year maps up.
Next we go to the line of Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research Pennsylvania (sic) [ Partners ].
Vertical Research Partners.
Scott just one more question on Cessna and I'll switch gears to something else.
Given what you just said about kind of the tone of things do you expect your back half to be a little more level loaded then and not have such a crush and Q4 to get to the number? Yes I do.
I mean I think there's 2 things at play Jeff.
One is we've been trying as hard as we can to try to -- to the extent we can move people that would rather be fourth quarter than third quarter just because operationally it puts an awful lot of pressure on the operation to try to deliver everything at the end of Q4.
And of course the other dynamic is I don't think we're going to have this dearth of orders and activity that we saw last year in sort of the late spring to beginning of summer which also obviously impacted the softness of last year's Q3.
So I won't tell you that I don't think it's still going to be Q4 will be the more heavily loaded.
But that's very -- that's typical of the business anyway.
But I do not think that Q3 will be as light as it was last year.
And I guess the second part to the same question I mean the backlog obviously going into the back half is a lot lower than it was going into the back half of last year.
Is most of what you're expecting in the back half kind of in sight in the backlog? Or how much backfilling is there to be done? Well I would say it's either in the backlog or it's largely in customers that we have line of sight to the aircraft deliveries.
I just want to switch gears to Bell margins.
Certainly you've kind of continued to beat my expectations there.
Can you just give us a little bit granularity on kind of -- even if it's directionally not specifically but kind of the margins on military programs and maybe the effect of aftermarket on what we're seeing in margins and where we should expect them to kind of -- what kind of trajectory we should expect from here? Well I think clearly our margin rates on the military programs have been improving.
And there's a real mix in there Jeff of programs that have had solid margins for some time.
And there are a couple of programs in there that frankly have had in some sorts negative margin certainly very dilutive margins.
And those programs as they improve and get back to where they should be we reduce the amount of that dilution from a couple of those programs.
Our aftermarket business obviously is still very strong and a very profitable business.
And so when you look at all this stuff as we made improvements from a couple of these programs that have had real challenges in the past in terms of the margin rate and get them to sort of more healthy what you would expect to be good margin rates up in that sort of in the military 9% or 10% or so kind of numbers you will lose the drag of that dilution.
And you get a lot more of -- obviously an overall stronger margin rate in the business.
And I think that's what we're seeing.
Now as we go forward through the balance of the year I think we're going to see fairly level in terms of our military deliveries.
But we're going to see a significant increase in commercial deliveries through the back half of the year.
And again those generally speaking tend to be dilutive to that 13% kind of margin rate in new equipment.
But that's more as the commercial market works right? We got reasonable margins on most of those products but they feed that aftermarket which has strong margins.
So I think that's the pressure point we're going to see.
We'll a lot of 429 deliveries a lot more the light 407 206-type deliveries in the second half.
And that's great.
That builds our backlog.
They're good products.
They're decent margins but they're not 13% 14% kind of margin products.
Next we go to the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> If I could shift back to Cessna a couple of questions.
Could you give us some color please Scott in terms of what you're seeing in pricing the mix between U.S.
and foreign demand? And lastly what should we expect Scott Ernest to be doing differently at Cessna? Well I guess Cai I would say let's first talk about the pricing side of things.
So pricing in the used market I would say was fairly stable.
There's a couple of models that moved down again.
But generally speaking most of the models particularly most of the newer models we've seen stabilization even some increases in pricing and I guess I'd also comment much better volume.
I mean there's a lot more activity in the used market.
So I think that has gone through the trough and is starting to improve.
On the new aircraft front pricing is still difficult.
I mean every deal is a very competitive deal but we're hanging in there.
I don't think it's degrading a lot but we saw a little bit of positive pricing through the earlier part of the year.
But it's going to be tough pricing I think still for a while as the market is recovering.
If I looked at the market in terms of where it's coming from the orders and then talk to deliveries I guess probably is the better way to look at it through the first half is about 65-35 domestic versus international.
So I think this is going to fluctuate a little bit obviously over time.
But it's -- I think long-term it's still going to hang around the 50-50 mark over a period of time.
In terms of my expectations for Scott and what Scott's doing is -- look Scott is a pretty hands-on guy.
He loves the business.
He's a guy that's intending to obviously spend virtually all of his time right now in Wichita very inside focused on how do we look and measure and build a cadence around manufacturing around sales around service day in day out kind of operations.
He's very much digging into that.
We've been looking at the organization and what we think we need to do.
Organizationally he's put some people into new jobs on his staff particularly people focused around particular product lines like Citation jets like our single-engine business like our special mission business to drive more accountability more sort of P&amp;L responsibility across these product lines and that includes upstream marketing so product development product strategy and really having people that own those individual product segments as opposed to running the business all as sort of one chunk.
And I think that's something we've needed.
I think it's a great opportunity for some people and he has people coming into work every day that are very very focused on those particular product segments.
And of course they continue to work through manufacturing and engineering on all the overall efficiencies and cost programs.
So he's a pretty hands-on guy.
He's a decisive guy.
So I mean you put issues on the table and the team will make the calls they need to make.
And again I think he's great with identifying talent putting the right people in the right jobs and giving them the right opportunities.
And good things happen when that works.
LLC</strong> Terrific.
And just one last one shifting to TFC.
You had very impressive improvement in nonperforming asset and 60-day delinquency ratios sequentially.
Could you give us a little bit more color what's happening there? What was the cash conversion in the quarter? And are the prospects to maybe unload some bigger pieces of this improved given the improvement you have in some of those metrics? So the cash conversion was around 80% Cai.
And that was -- we've been telling folks that we expect to see some quarters when that number comes down like that at that number or even below that number.
In this case it was driven by one particular account we've had.
It's been a problem account for some time and it just went through a bankruptcy process so we took a charge-off for which we were reserved.
That also explains why the charge-off number was up a little bit in the quarter and of course takes that out of accrual out of nonaccrual.
I think what you're going to see going forward Cai and it was typical this quarter is that the portfolio I would dare to say at this point has sort of stabilized.
Right? So the problem accounts we've pretty well gone through and said "Okay look these are the accounts that are nonaccrual.
These are the accounts that are problem accounts.
We're working our way through those." As we work our way through those the good news is what we're not seeing is a lot of new accounts move into those categories.
So I think that the performing parts of the portfolio have stabilized.
So what you see now is things that are going to migrate their way through the nonaccrual accounts through the charge-offs for which they're reserved and see that happen without a lot of new stuff backfilling and coming back into those nonaccrual accounts.
So that's sort of what's going on.
In terms of prospects for moving or selling significant parts of the assets we did one earlier this year in the timeshare area.
I think it's possible that we could do something in timeshare again.
We believe there's a fair bit of capital liquidity that's come back into that market.
A number people that are very interested in that asset class.
To be honest with you it's been a great asset class for us.
It's just not something we want to do in the future so we do see some interest on that side.
On the golf side of things we did sell a number of golf courses particularly in Canada to a company wanted to get in that space.
But I'd say there's still not a lot of capital not a lot of liquidity coming back into the golf side.
So I think if I look at how the year would play off there's no guarantee.
And obviously we won't do a deal unless we think it's a smart deal.
But there's a probability we could do something on the timeshare side but unlikely on the golf side is the way I would handicap it.
Next we'll go to the line of Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
I guess I'll going to go back to Cessna.
Cai touched on the CSC questions I had.
The cash conversion ratio is still pretty good for full year I'd say.
Can you tell us a little bit about the inventories that picked up? How much of that is finished goods and where do you stand on white tail? So the inventory buildup Heidi I guess don't really think of it so much as a white tail now or would say that I feel like we're going to have much in the way of white tails at the end of the year.
But obviously our ability to run the production lines is a lot more linear than our sales forecast.
So there's no question that as we work through the first couple quarters we've been building aircraft at a particular pace.
But as I said I think we have pretty good visibility through either through what is in the backlog or through the customer prospect list and the activity that we're working on that we have pretty good line of sight that those aircraft are -- that we are building the right amount of aircraft and we're building the right type of aircraft to meet the forecast for the total year.
But that does result in some inventory build during the course of year just because of this disconnect between a fairly linear manufacturing flow and a nonlinear sales flow which we can't line that up.
I mean there's no way we could run the production facility to meet the third and fourth quarter delivery demand only by building those things to have them in time for third fourth quarter orders.
And that's true at Cessna and Bell.
Okay great.
And then you talked about growth in aftermarket in the quarter.
Can you tell us what's the run rate for aftermarket look like? Is it going to be in Cessna about $600 million $700 million? That's about right Heidi.
The second half we're expecting to be a little bit later than the first half just based on some timing.
You usually think of the aftermarket as a lot parts and so forth.
But there's also the aspects of refurb-ing planes.
And we had a couple of fairly large programs in the first half that actually completed in the second quarter.
Okay.
And then finally just to back out so we can get a sense as to what new aircraft performance is looking like.
If we x out the aftermarket and if we were to normalize for the ramp in R&amp;D how much -- what would normalized margins look like year-over-year? First of all these are normalized margins because this is how we're running the business.
But R&amp;D was -- If we backed out -- I mean but if we backed out the pickup in R&amp;D and just looked at pure new aircraft outside of parts and others where would margins look like from there on a year-over-year basis? How about if we tackle it this way.
R&amp;D was up $14 million at Cessna in the quarter.
Next we go to the line of Julian Mitchell with Crédit Suisse.
My question -- my first question was around the margins in Cessna.
I guess your second half -- your full year guidance implies at the midpoint of the Cessna margin range for the full year around about 30% incremental margins I think.
And that's obviously against a low-teens incremental in Q2.
Can you just add a bit of color around what your expectations are on costs for the second half? You mentioned that R&amp;D was up $14 million in Q2.
I think it was up $9 million in Q1.
And also in your Q1 discussion you talked about inflation cost headwinds in Cessna in Q1.
So should we assume that for the second half those cost headwinds are largely parsing away and also the R&amp;D ramp is less steep than it was in the first half and that's what drives a big pickup in incrementals in the second half? Or is it just you're relying on volumes because deliveries were down in the first half and your full year guidance obviously implies a decent pickup year-on-year in the second half? The R&amp;D rate is not going to change a lot.
We have been ramping up the R&amp;D rate and of course that will stick with us through the balance of the year.
I think if I try to get to understand your question I mean clearly the revenue the volume is going to be significantly higher in the third and the fourth quarter.
So if you take sort of the midpoint around where the overall guidance number is and you look at where we are year-to-date obviously particularly after coming out of a negative number in the first quarter obviously that's all when we made up.
But really what drives it is we do have higher aircraft delivery volumes through the third and fourth quarter which overcomes the increased R&amp;D and whatnot.
And as I said earlier I think there are certainly cost actions that are kicking in in terms of lower labor cost.
We will see some benefit of some improved material pricing particularly around the CJ4 as we work through the higher volumes of the third and fourth quarter as well.
So all of that contributes basically to improve those overall margin rates in Q3 and Q4.
So the net for the year you end up in that guidance range of 1% to 3%.
But it's mostly volume-driven.
Got it.
And then secondly just in terms of Bell commercial.
You'd mentioned that the Paris Airshow that the term was fairly upbeat and so on.
How is that -- how has the orders on commercial trended I guess in the first 6 months versus your expectation? I mean obviously commodity prices have been moving around net-net as they move up.
That should be positive for your customers.
But you've had some macro confusion.
So maybe -- I mean is it sort of similar to Cessna where even despite all these macro changes the overall run rate year-to-date is kind of what you thought? Yes it's definitely what we thought.
And we've seen some backlog accretion here in the first quarters on the commercial side.
And I expect we will continue to see that through the balance of the year.
We always felt that it would be fairly back-end loaded in terms of commercial deliveries because we were still coming out of sort of the challenges of 2010.
But I guess on balance I would say that the market and how the market's recovering and where the opportunities are are pretty consistent with what our view was coming into the year.
Oil and gas is still strong.
EMS is still strong.
Asia has been picking up Indonesia Middle East.
The areas that we expected to be strong are in fact turning out to be pretty strong.
Next we'll go to the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Scott at Industrial it held up pretty well despite what happened in Japan and what's coming through in terms of auto volumes.
Do you still expect to see some impact I guess at some point this year maybe in Q3 from the slowdown in auto volumes? This is always a tough one to gauge.
Right what happens at the OEM level.
But at least what we're still hearing from the OEMs is that they're still fairly bullish on how the balance of the year is going to go.
As you say we had a little bit -- it was a little softer than we would've thought in the second quarter.
And that was primarily plant shutdowns or reduced shipped rates mostly in North America.
Of the Japanese suppliers -- for a lot of key components were going back to Japan obviously.
But so far we're not seeing a lot of modification of forecasts coming out of the OEMs in terms of the automotive market.
And David we're pretty much on track with respect to our original guidance of around $2.7 billion for the Industrial in total.
So as we said back in the last call we thought we'd see a little bit of a shift out of the second quarter which we saw.
And we think we'll make that up by the end of the year.
Okay.
Doug I guess that leads to my next question.
Can you give a kind of a summary of where your guidance within the segments corporate TFC has changed since the beginning of the year? I mean I know systems you're now talking to $2 billion versus $2.2 billion.
It looks like corporate and TFC might be running a little bit better.
The share count looks like it might be lower given what happened in Q2.
Can you just maybe talk about where things have changed? Well I think in addition to what you said the other aspects are that Cessna is still pretty much where we said.
Bell will be a little better.
You already said with Cessna.
So net-net we're kind of pretty close to where we started the year except for that shift between Cessna and Bell.
Okay.
And last one for me Scott back to Cessna.
The book-to-bill I think was a little bit better than most of us were expecting in the quarter.
Can you give a little bit of color in terms of -- I know you're talking about it regionally.
Can you talk about maybe by aircraft type model type where you're seeing relative strength compared to -- comparatively? And then I think you've talked about on the last call the book-to-bill getting to 1x by I think you said towards at the end of year.
Does that still hold? I think on the book-to-bill David it's still the best guess I have.
I mean I think we always felt that we would probably struggle to get to a 1:1 through the course of this year.
I mean obviously I think as we go into the end of the year if it's anything like last year in terms of just sort of the customer demand behavior around both the end of this year as well as orders for next year and bonus depreciation playing into all of that I think that is probably where we'll see that 1:1 or greater kind of a number.
So in that respect -- I mean it's still yes obviously but it seems to be playing out about the way that we thought.
In terms of aircraft mix we kind of expected -- and again what we've seen is a bias towards the larger Citation jets so XLSs and the CJs and Sovereigns more slanted away from the Mustang.
Although Mustangs are doing okay but we expected compared to the last couple of years that we would start to see a move towards the larger aircraft.
And that is what we're seeing.
Next we go to the line of Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Just wanted to clarify a comment you made on the backlog.
Obviously there's timing differences as to when you're going to deliver something.
So is the backlog actually in a worse position this year relative to where you were last year for current year deliveries? Steve I have not looked at that so I couldn't tell you one way or the other whether our percentage going into the second is appreciably different.
I don't think it's significantly different.
I mean just from a day-to-day operation as we talk about the stuff it doesn't strike me as being very different.
Right because some of the stuff is for '12 and '13 and maybe a little bit beyond.
And then just I think everybody's got kind of a different methodology for doing this and you've got obviously moving parts around aftermarket et cetera and the revenue base.
But we're coming up with something around 20 net orders from a unit perspective this quarter.
Can you just give us any kind of color around that? It would be helpful for everybody I think.
We have not been giving specific order numbers.
So I don't think I want to go there.
We just haven't been giving that numbers Steve.
Is there any point in time where you're going to start giving that maybe when the backlog kind of fills up? I know it's obviously a very important number to I think most investors.
And it would just be helpful for us to be able to gauge how this thing is going.
Well look.
I mean obviously the backlog number will be out there and we'll continue to provide that.
My issue is that giving specific backlog and order numbers is also more helpful to my competitors.
And I just don't think it's a number we want to put out there.
Right okay.
And then just as far as the progression through the rest of the year are you expecting anything at NBAA? I mean I know the helicopter show was pretty good for you guys a nice milepost in kind of the recovery.
Anything at NBAA that you'd expect to be positive? Well we expect obviously that we'll have a good show.
We have some things that we will be talking about at the show in terms of some new product.
And in terms of the market obviously it's very hard to call.
I mean obviously Paris we feel good about where the market is on the commercial helicopter side.
As we continue sort of this modest recovery on the light to mid-size I mean I would hope that we're picking up some momentum as you get out there into that kind of October time frame.
But we certainly will be talking about some new stuff and things that we think are good for the business.
And hopefully it will be a great show.
Okay.
And then just final question on Industrial.
I know you don't like to talk about the portfolio moves that much.
But clearly the business has kind of come back off of the bottom.
You have a little bit of profitability there.
There is quite a bit of private equity money that's floating around.
Is there any kind of active ongoing portfolio review? And I guess if you don't want to kind of answer it that way is there any intention to add to that business and build that business? And then one final follow-up after that.
Steve right now our focus really in that business is run the businesses.
I mean at 7-plus percent of margin is obviously generating a fair bit of margin for us.
It's generating a lot of cash for us.
And those businesses are a great part of our portfolio.
As I've said before it doesn't mean everything will be there forever? No.
Does it mean we'll never add to it? No.
I mean I think that's not something that we spend a lot of time right now.
Frankly we're really much more focused on running them.
That's how we've got them to where they are.
And I think they have become profitable businesses and valuable businesses as a result.
And then one final question.
What's the strategy on the big slag [ph] of debt that's coming due over the next couple years? I mean any intention to kind of take care of that in the near-term given obviously pretty volatile or the potential for increasingly volatile credit markets out there? Well our focus here for this past year really has been to try to be as aggressive as we can at paying down the bank line.
So we've been doing that.
We have a new line in place with good tenor to it.
So we've kind of worked that part of the capital structure and feel pretty good about that.
In terms of those future debt payments I mean they're of a magnitude and a duration at this point that obviously we feel very comfortable in our ability to pay that down as it comes due.
Steve when you look at the progress we made on TFC bank loan we're down now at only $500 million.
We expect to pay that off during the remainder of the year.
That will essentially take care of all the 2012 maturities and between liquidations and cash flow.
When you then look at 2013 we can take care of 2013 with the liquidations and the cash flows from the business during that intervening period of time.
Next we go to the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Just a quick question on Foreign Military Sales and things that are going on at Bell.
Can you give us a little bit of color as to how things are going to shape up with regard to the V-22 in particular and where you think that product is going to sell best and what types of things we as analysts ought to be looking out for in tracking Foreign Military Sales of some of your helicopter platforms? Sure.
So if you talk V-22 firstly there are a number of customers that have made inquiries and have expressed interest over time in that platform.
Historically Jason there hasn't been a whole lot done with it because frankly we don't even have production capacity to handle more than we're doing at the Marine Corps and the Air Force until you're out in kind of that 2015 '16 sort of a time frame anyway.
So obviously those discussions have become more real here over the last 6 months I would say even or so.
I want to be careful because there are some that are not public.
One that is public because I know the Israeli Air Force has talked about is they have expressed an interest.
And the Marine Corps actually has hosted them a couple of times.
They've flown the aircraft.
They've been in the simulators.
I think they've been very impressed with the aircraft and its capabilities.
So that's one that's sort of in the first stages of putting together a potential FMS program around there.
There's a couple other customers who also have inquired who are not quite that far down the path and again they're not public so I won't talk about them specifically.
But I don't think -- the V-22 we're not talking about hundreds of countries that are going to buy these things.
I think it's 10 or 12 countries that are going to buy these things.
But the interest is certainly there in a number of these places.
And as I said the initial ones are starting to actually progress.
On the H-1 which is another opportunity obviously and I would say a much broader opportunity a lot more countries that would look at H-1s both for the utility and the attack version.
There are already some LORs that's been submitted to the U.S.
expressing interest in these aircraft.
So there's activity going on in the formal early stages of working quotations and working the government-to-government side of this thing.
So again early on but also one where we have not had production capacity to serve beyond the Marine Corps requirements.
But as we see that requirement and that opportunity coming up in the sort of 2015-plus kind of time frame we're now working those opportunities.
Okay great.
And then just one Cessna question somebody tried to ask this question a bit earlier.
And I'm going to maybe do it at a different way.
For the second half of this year how much of your outlook for deliveries is dependent upon what I would describe as turns business or orders that you expect to both get and fulfill during the second half of the year? Yes we don't publish what our current number of aircraft orders and sales are.
So we usually talk coming into the year how much sold out in the past.
We're trying to get away from that Jason because it doesn't help us in the marketplace to say how many available slots we have.
But suffice to say obviously there are some available slots.
But at this point the color I would give you on that is when we look at what we think our total year deliveries will be consistent with the guidance that we provided that we think we have pretty good line of sight of those aircraft sales because they're either a in the backlog or b we are in discussions with customers that we believe will close on deals to sell that number of aircraft.
Okay perfect.
And then one last quick question.
Can you just describe the focus of the R&amp;D that you're doing there at Cessna? Is it towards the larger aircraft at this point? It really is a mix across the whole product line.
So obviously we have already announced the new X which is our largest aircraft.
We have a number of programs that are going on.
And as I kind of said we will announce at least one of those at the NBAA coming out in October.
But the investment is pretty broad across all the various platforms.
Some of those are upgrade programs like it is in the X and hopefully some will be brand-new aircraft.
But the one thing I would say is it's not a Columbus class aircraft okay? I mean the realm here of what you're doing and where we're investing really runs from our sort of that CJ-sized aircraft right through the X.
Next we go to the line of Rob Stallard with RBC.
LLC</strong> Scott just a bit of clarification on TFC.
You said it's relatively stable here.
If we look at the income statement and what the TFC cost is going to be going forward can we expect it to be say maybe gradually trending down from what you booked this quarter going forward? In terms of -- I'm sorry Rob on cost? LLC</strong> If you look on the income statement what you've got there as your operating cost effectively at the Finance division flowing through the income statement [indiscernible] of this quarter.
Would you expect that sort of level of loss to be gradually trending down from here through '11 into 2012? Rob let me put it this way.
I think kind of we've given the guidance of around $140 million loss for the year.
And there'll be variability quarter-to-quarter on that.
But kind of that -- that's the number for 2011.
That obviously reflects both operating cost of the business as well as kind of losses on liquidations.
We expect as we've said that to trend down as the portfolio gets smaller and trend down meaningfully.
But we will we believe continue to see losses into 2012 and possibly beyond time frame depending on what that portfolio activity looks like.
I think Rob I mean from the cost -- that's why I was trying to be careful I mean cost has been coming down from an operating cost standpoint and we'll continue to do that.
Obviously as we reduce the number of assets we have the cost base to serve those has been coming down with it.
I mean it's probably -- don't necessarily look at it like you would conventional metrics around returning [ph] asset and cost percent asset and things like that.
But obviously it's coming down.
And as Frank said we are going to continue to liquidate this portfolio.
And we would expect to continue to see loss as you continue to see that liquidation.
So we know we're going to have more liquidations as we go into 2012 and there's going to be loss associated with that.
I would certainly expect that the magnitude won't be as great but again there's some volatility.
I mean if you had an opportunity to sell a good chunk of the portfolio or something you would take associated loss at that time.
LLC</strong> Secondly on the V-22 you mentioned that you're discussing the multiyear situation with the U.S.
government.
I was wondering if you're seeing as this discussion progress slightly more onerous terms coming through in terms of maybe the price per unit but also just the general risk-sharing contractual terms that the government is actually looking to get from defense contractors.
Well I would say that the primary discussion point and the primary objective of the government with respect to the multiyear is achieving a certain savings percentage as compared to if they were to procure on a year-over-year basis.
So that's really where most of the discussion and most of the strategy with both ourselves as well as our customer is how to make sure that in terms of unit volumes and times and whatnot that if we're going to do a multiyear we're able to figure out a way to achieve the cost ratio.
So it's not a price discussion or sharing discussion so much.
It's really around how do we get that savings as compared to if they procured on an annualized basis.
Next we go to the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Scott as you move into the back half of the year you're really looking at setting the production rates up for 2012 more than anything else.
I'm just kind of curious what your attitude is on the risks you're willing to take with respect to not losing share and gaining share versus obviously some conservatism with respect to the balance sheet.
And kind of where do you think the backlog needs to be at year end to sustain this level of production you have in 2011? Well I mean first of all you're absolutely right.
We already are looking at what our production rates look like in the next year because the cycle time of these products from supplier procurement all the way through final assembly and test dictates that we started paying attention to that right now.
So our view obviously we're not in the position yet to try to guide on probably next year.
But suffice it to say that we continue to expect to see some modest improvement in the market.
And that's how we think about it when we think our production rates.
And just as we've done in 2010 and have now done in 2011 we will have to make some estimates in terms of what we expect that demand to look like.
And as a result we'll set those production forecasts.
And yes we will take some risk.
But we'll take pretty thoughtful risk which is the same thing we did in '09 and '10.
And those have played out to be about right.
So we will take some risk in terms of the balance sheet and some inventory because we know we're not going to have a backlog in 2012 where the aircraft is spoken for.
We know the demand is going to be there for the course of the year and just as we had for the last couple of years we'll work as good as hard as we can to try to make sure we're accurate in terms of anticipating what's going on in the marketplace.
And do you see any movements with respect to the tax accelerated depreciation coming into play at this debt ceiling in terms of how do you -- it would impact orders for this year either pull forward from 2012 into 2011 or otherwise? I don't think so.
We have not heard any discussions with respect to bonus depreciation and any different handling than what has been out there.
The talk that you hear around changes in -- tax-related changes for business aircraft.
As near as we can tell I mean all the discussion is around changing the depreciation schedule to a 7-year schedule from a 5-year schedule but that wouldn't kick in until you go back to the normal depreciation schedule.
So in other words it does not appear that there's any change none that we are aware of with respect to the bonus depreciation scheme.
So it will just be a going-forward basis that when you go back to normal depreciation it's a 7 versus a 5-year plan.
At least that we believe is the proposal that's on the table.
And last one for me.
On systems would you expect the back half of the year to have a pickup in bookings putting your book-to-bill above one to hopefully support that business revenue level flat into next year at a minimum? At systems I would expect that.
The only caveat I would put around that is one of the things that's been a pressure point for us this year is as we went through all the CRs and all the budget uncertainty.
Some of these programs were pushed to the right.
Most of those programs or several of those programs are important to us should close and be decided by the end of the year.
And therefore you would have that in your book.
But I mean given all of the uncertainty and insurance [ph] in Washington some of that could slide to the right.
But the key opportunities that we've been working on should get into the book by the end of the year.
And next we go to the line of Steve Levenson with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> On the assumption that you get some foreign military orders could those be shipped concurrently with deliveries to U.S.
customers? Or would they have to wait in line? A lot of that depends on what's going on with the budgets.
But I would say that generally speaking when you get out into the '15 '16 time frame the Marine Corps in particular which is our customer on the H-1 and a majority of our customer on the V-22 has been very supportive of these activities.
They know it's good for them as well because it keeps higher levels of production in the factories.
And I think -- I won't speak for the Marine Corps but I think they're amenable to feathering in some Foreign Military Sales opportunities if that will help to capture some opportunities and add some additional volume to the overall program.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Just going back to Cessna.
You've been talking a bit about mix shifting to the larger planes.
Is that something you think will be evident in the second half or is that going to be something that's next year and beyond? Well I think that will be something we'll continue to see in the third and fourth quarter this year as well.
Particularly relative to Mustang volumes as it relates to the mid-light.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And just a question about that problem account in TFC was that golf account or another category? It was a timeshare account.
Next we go to the line of George Shapiro with Access 342.
Can you tell us what forfeiture income net of write-downs was at Cessna in the second quarter and how that compares to last year? It was about $2 million and it was roughly similar to last year's levels a little over $2 million.
Okay.
And then any way to quantify the impact of Japanese order production on Caltex in the second quarter and how it might recover as we go into the subsequent quarters? George we've tried to do that.
I mean in some respects it's not that hard because you can look at a particular plant and we know they went from 5-day to 2-day shifts for a certain period of time.
But what they were forecasting versus what they did.
There is some murkiness around it.
But let's say that globally for us it might have been somewhere in the order of $15 million or $20 million worth of physical volume.
It's not a huge number.
Okay it's not a huge number.
And then Scott if you look at Cessna orders in June in the early part of July versus April and May did you see any improvement? George I don't even know if I have that in front of me.
June was strong.
Generally the pace of order activity although there's volatility month-to-month has kind of improved generally as we went through the year.
George the seasonality within a quarter you always have stronger end of the quarter just human nature kind of a thing.
So I wouldn't necessarily draw anything from that other than unlike last year the quickest thing come out and have silenced.
So we're encouraged by what we saw in June.
And I was meaning Doug obviously after the normal seasonality you might expect with the stronger normally stronger June but you're saying it's hard to separate it out.
It's lack of bad news as much as anything.
So there was no bad news in June which is good news.
You always have some of this lumpiness George.
I tend to look at it on more of a quarter basis.
I mean we see that number every month but I think of it more on a quarterly basis.
And certainly there's no tonal change.
I mean when I talked to Scott and I talked to Mark and the sales guys nobody's coming in and saying "Oh my gosh." Either nothing's happening or all of a sudden everyone wants to buy.
I mean it's been pretty steady.
Okay.
And then next quick one probably for Frank.
The sales of the commercial tiltrotor to Agusta [ph] any financial impact from that in this quarter? No because it won't close until later in the year.
And then will there be a financial impact then? Well there will be some impact on an ongoing basis as a result of kind of various elements of the agreement.
We will continue to support them and their development on a go-forward basis.
And so we will have some engineering activities and support activity and things like that.
But there will not be any type of kind of large one-time impact at the time of the close.
That would be the final question coming from the line of Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just quickly on Cessna one thing we didn't really talk about was how is international demand? What are you seeing there? Actually it's been reasonably strong.
The Southeast Asia Indonesia these areas have been good for us on both Citation jet as well as Caravan [ph] has been good.
The eastern European Latin American markets are still strong.
So it's been fairly balanced I would say Ron.
I mean it's not one particular region but I would say the level of interest and the market kind of just sort of modestly recovering we're seeing on a pretty broad basis.
All right ladies and gentlemen that concludes our call.
Thank you very much for joining us.
And the few folks that were still in the queue for follow-up calls we'll get to you one on one then.
Thank you very much.
This conference is being made available for replay after 10 a.m.
today until October 18 2011 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive playback service at any time by dialing 1(800)475-6701 and entering the access code 186399.
International participants may dial 1(320)365-3844.
Thank you for using AT&amp;T Executive teleconferencing.
You may now disconnect.
Gentlemen thank you very much for standing by and welcome to today's Textron Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference is being recorded and information on accessing the replay of today's call will be given at the end of the conference.
With that I'd like to turn the conference over to our host today Mr.
Doug Wilburne Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Moving now to third quarter results.
Revenues in the quarter were $2.8 billion up 13.5% from a year ago which yielded earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.45 compared to a net loss of $0.17 per share in the third quarter of 2010.
Last year's result also included $0.30 per share in special charges.
Third quarter manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was $339 million compared to $174 million during last year's third quarter.
This brings our year-to-date cash flow to $455 million double last year's $226 million for the same period.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
Let me start by saying we believe we had a solid quarter with good execution especially at Cessna and Bell.
We had 15% top line growth in our Manufacturing segments reflecting sales expansion across most all of our businesses.
We're pleased with continued success in selling commercial aircraft in what has been an uncertain environment over the past 3 months.
As a result at Cessna we delivered 47 jets in the quarter up significantly from last year's 26.
With the orders we recorded in the quarter which is typically a slower order period along with current customer activity we remain on track to achieve our target of a slight increase in deliveries this year barring no major economic disruptions.
I'm also pleased with the progress we're making at Cessna with respect to execution.
Scott Ernest has been on board for about 5 months now and I think he and the Cessna team have established a good cadence to drive both operational and sales execution.
We're excited about our 2 newest products the M2 and the Latitude which we introduced for this year's NBAA.
The Citation M2 provides a very economical step up from Mustang with a larger fuselage an aft lav and a full 12-foot cabin with increased seating.
The M2 also features our new clarity cabin technology system most modern cabin control communications and connectivity system available on any aircraft in this class.
Compared to the competition the M2 has also a 37% climb seat advantage will cruise 40 knots faster and provides an additional 100 nautical miles in range.
The M2 is also an excellent value priced at $4.2 million and even more so when you consider Cessna's superior aftermarket support and residual value of retention.
We're on an accelerated development cycle and expect entry into service in 2013.
We also announced the all-new Latitude jet.
This is priced between the midsized XLS and Sovereign models.
And at $14.9 million the Latitude is the largest Citation cabin with a spacious 72-foot height and a flat floor system.
Combining the best comfort and performance the Latitude will have a cruise speed of 440 knots and a 2 000-plus nautical mile range making it a very compelling choice in the price range.
Moving to Bell.
Business execution across our programs continues to be excellent and that’s reflected in our strong margins this quarter.
We delivered 9 V-22s 7 H-1s and 26 commercial helicopters versus 7 5 and 24 in the third quarter of 2010.
Bell backlog at the end of the third quarter was $6.4 billion down $588 million from the end of the second quarter of 2011 reflecting military deliveries during the quarter as well as a $781 million reduction to backlog primarily to correct an error made in the fourth quarter 2009 which recorded as backlog the full value of a V-22 contract rather than Bell's proportionate share.
The commercial order environment of Bell is holding up fairly well given the macro environment so we also remain on track to post a slight increase in commercial deliveries at Bell this year.
On the new product front our 407GX earned FAA certification during the quarter.
The 407GX is generating significant new customer interest and should contribute to continued growth in deliveries at Bell.
We're also proud that Bell was ranked #1 in product support for the sixth consecutive year by AIN.
Moving to systems.
We continue to experience some program approval delays so volumes were essentially flat in the quarter.
It's important for us to demonstrate useful economical capabilities that will give traction in what is a very challenging budget environment.
For example we participated in a live demonstration for the U.S.
Army of what is known as the Manned/Unmanned System Integration Capability System or MUSIC.
MUSIC is a fully integrated ground control station managing a variety of manned and unmanned aircraft systems.
AAI's universal ground control stations served as the centerpiece of the exercise providing command and control of AAI Shadow Tactical Unmanned Aircraft Systems as well as several other UAS brands.
Making UAS history we seamlessly handed off control of each UAS from one ground control station to another demonstrating for the first time revolutionary improvements in battlefield communication and information sharing.
We also demonstrated AAI's one system remote video terminal and a cockpit solution that enabled a number of manned helicopters including Bell Helicopter's Kiowa Warrior to view and retransmit UAS video and data while in flight.
Despite DoD budget uncertainty we remain focused on new program development new DoD opportunities and multiple FMS prospects.
So if we move to our Finance segment.
We continue to make good progress in liquidating our assets as we reduced managed receivables by $277 million during the quarter.
This brings managed receivables portfolio to $3.5 billion with the non-captive portion decreasing to $1.5 billion.
In the Industrial businesses volumes were up in our automotive and professional tool businesses.
However demand continues to be a challenge in the golf and turf areas.
To wrap up the quarter.
We continue to make progress liquidating our non-cap to Finance business.
Systems top line is a little softer than we'd expected primarily the result of uncertain DoD budgets and we're actively working on a variety of new contract program opportunities.
Bell's execution continues to be very favorable and our commercial products are doing well in the marketplace.
Our outlook for Industrial remains on track for the year.
And at Cessna I believe we're taking the right actions to improve execution and it’s showing up in both our operation and sales results.
With that I'll turn it over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Segment profit in the quarter was $236 million up $124 million from the third quarter of 2010.
Let's look at how each of the segments contributed to this improvement starting with Cessna.
At Cessna revenues were up $236 million on a year-over-year basis due to higher jet deliveries.
We posted an operating profit of $33 million on the higher volume which compared to a $31 million operating loss last year.
Our improvement in operating profit also reflected favorable mix and performance.
At Bell revenues were up $69 million due to higher aircraft deliveries.
Segment profit increased $36 million reflecting strong program performance.
At Textron Systems revenue of $462 million was essentially even with the year ago reflecting flat volumes.
Segment profit was essentially unchanged as well.
Industrial revenues increased $55 million primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange and higher volumes.
Segment profit remained even with last year.
Finance segment revenues were down $27 million reflecting our ongoing liquidation activities.
Our operating loss improvement of $27 million reflected lower loan loss provisions and lower operating expenses partially offset by lower interest margin on the reduced portfolio of finance receivables.
During the quarter we unwound 3 leverage leases creating a tax benefit which was not reflected in our Finance segment results but was reflected in the lower tax rate during the quarter.
In terms of credit performance during the quarter nonaccrual finance receivables decreased from $696 million to $606 million and 60-day-plus delinquencies decreased from $302 million to $275 million.
Charge-offs in the third quarter were $26 million compared with $38 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Moving to corporate items.
Corporate expenses were $13 million down from $35 million last year primarily due to the impact of our lower share price had on compensation expense.
Interest expense was $37 million up $5 million from last year primarily the result of lower interest income on the TFC intercompany loan.
On the cash flow front we contributed $16 million into our pension plan during the quarter.
We also reduced our TFC bank line by $100 million ending the quarter with a remaining balance of $400 million which we will repay later this week.
With the repayment we will permanently terminate the $1.75 billion TFC bank line.
With our solid manufacturing cash flow and receivables liquidations we reduced our consolidated net debt by another $500 million ending the quarter at $3.9 billion.
Let me conclude with some information concerning our tender offer for our 600 million in convertible notes.
Including accrued interest we paid $348 million to retire about 37 1/2% to the notes outstanding.
This was financed from $500 million of new 5- and 10-year notes we issued at the end of September.
As a result of the tender the company will record a charge in the fourth quarter of about $0.08 per share.
Dilution from the convert and its associated structure will be reduced by 37 1/2% and we have updated the dilution worksheet on our website to reflect this change.
All in we expect the impact of the tender will reduce 2011 earnings by about $0.06 per share which compares to our full tender estimate which was $0.20 per share a difference of $0.14.
Therefore rounding up we now expect our full year EPS will be in the range of $1.05 to $1.15.
We also continue to expect cash flow before pension contributions will be in the range of $800 million to $850 million.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we're ready to take your questions.
First we'll hear from the line of Peter Skibitski with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the Citation delivery you're about 16 or so through the first 3 quarters of this year above last year.
So you're saying basically that for the fourth quarter you basically pulled some aircraft from the fourth quarter into the third quarter so you're just kind of still on track or just up by single digits I suppose year-over-year? Well Peter as we've been talking about last year I think the third quarter was very soft.
And that was really a result of the fact that order intake was pretty slow in the second and third quarters and so we consciously this year tried to work hard to sort of bring sales activities to conclusions and get a little more balance between the third and the fourth quarter.
And so I think that's what you’ve seen.
So we had pretty strong deliveries I think in the third quarter.
And we still think based on that and then sort of the prospects and the level -- stuff in the order book that we will still finish up slightly above where we are for the total year last year.
But really just with a more balanced third and fourth quarter than we had last year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then last question just on Cessna margins are obviously significantly improved even just looking sequentially.
And I'm wondering if you can parse for us kind of where the improvement is coming from and if it's volume if it's mix.
I know Mustang was a little bit light this quarter or if it’s just more so -- just underlying performance improvements.
Could you kind of parse that for us? Yes.
I mean it's a combination of all the above.
So obviously volumes being stronger with good contribution margin products certainly helps.
We did continue to have as we have for most of the year better mix in terms of the light to midsized versus the Mustangs in terms of unit deliveries.
And we're continuing to see better execution better performance particularly cost activities around the CJ4 and things of that nature.
So it's really been a combination of the volume and the mix.
And I think we're continuing to execute better and drive cost productivity in some of the programs that were kind of putting a little bit of a squeeze on our margins.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Is CJ4 up to kind of the mean margin rate at -- in the Citation line at this point or not quite there yet? Not quite there yet but it's certainly on track to get there.
Next we'll hear from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Scott you highlighted that Cessna orders are typically a little softer in the third quarter than the average for the year but they are down noticeably sequentially.
And we're getting pretty close to the end of the year with about 70% of a given year's – or of the current year's production in backlog.
How can 2012 be flat to slightly up with that being the case? Well no.
I think first of all there's a couple of dynamics going on.
There still continues to be some cancellations and these are primarily out-year aircraft right? So deliveries out in the '13 '14 time frame some '12 really very little '11.
But this is just -- and people come do -- for some of those long-term orders we are still seeing some cancellations.
I actually feel pretty good about where we finished in terms of actual order intake over the third quarter.
It's usually is kind of a slower period but our order intake rate stayed pretty constant from where we are in the second quarter despite the fact that it's usually a fairly quiet period.
We feel like we have pretty good prospect lists.
We have started taking orders obviously into 2012 in terms of aircraft that are available for sale in the early 2012 time frame.
So I think Noah the bottom line is this is going to remain a bit of a spot market right? I mean we are taking orders and converting them into sales inside the span of a quarter or 2.
And I think that trend is probably going to continue.
If you looked at the introductions of things like the M2 and the Latitude which are getting great reviews from customers and they are generating some orders but we're not back in the world where people lined up to place orders for aircraft that are 2 3 4 years away.
It's still going to be a spot market for a while.
So I know the book-to-bill number because -- particularly because some of the cancellation activity doesn't look as strong as you guys have liked in the quarter.
But I feel actually we did better in the order rate than I would have expected that we would have through the third quarter given everything going on around the world and the economies.
I think the team is working very very hard to chase down opportunities and close deals and we're seeing that happen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean whether you're looking at book-to-bill or not there is less than one year of production in the backlog.
So inherent in the company's comments that '12 will be flattish is an expectation that orders will pick up pretty meaningfully early or in the middle of 2012.
At what time or at what backlog level or whatever it is would you need to change that tone or make the call to take rates lower? Well it would all be based on what we see in terms of our prospect list and the order -- and the sort of the real-time order flow.
No we're really not building to a backlog and we haven't really been for the last couple of years right? I mean most of the deliveries are results of order flows coming through the course of the year.
So at this point we're not changing our perspective on it being sort of flattish to slightly up from 2011 and that's based on what we see in terms of the prospect list.
So it really -- that decision in terms of where rates go one way or the other is much more of a -- sort of a dynamic call as we work our way through month by month working with the sales teams looking at prospect lists what's going on in the marketplace is really what's driving that production rate.
But like I said right now I'm actually feeling pretty good about it considering all the stuff that's going on around the world that the third quarter order rates and prospect lists have stayed pretty solid.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one on Bell.
Surprised to see only two 429 units in the quarter.
You guys are clearly tracking below the full year target that you had put out for that product.
Can you give us an update on demand there the ramp execution and profitability on that program? The demand I think will still be there.
There's a lot of stuff going on in the marketplace right now.
There's a lot of proposals out.
So I think that there's still a lot of great opportunity for that.
We certainly will see a significant increase here in the fourth quarter in terms of 429 deliveries.
And as you know that at the point where that product is in its life cycle here is still early in production does put some margin pressure on it.
And that will be an issue for us in the fourth quarter because we will see a significant uptick in the number of 429 deliveries.
Research Division</strong> Do you actually get close to the 55 to 60 that you've discussed before? No I don't think it'll be that high no.
It's probably going to be more like in the 30-or-so area.
Next we'll hear from Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So not to beat a dead horse but on your orders you mentioned cancellations.
Were gross orders equal to deliveries? No they were not.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then were there any kind of abnormal items like were -- comment on the level of forfeiture gains or pretax losses.
And was R&amp;D up or down versus the second quarter? Any kind of other issues like that that would account for this? R&amp;D was up a little bit in the quarter Cai.
And the net difference between stuff like the forfeiture deposits and used aircraft write-downs and whatnot is really kind of down now in the mid-single digit number.
So it's not -- it's becoming sort of not material.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
When you say up up versus the second quarter? Obviously up year-over-year but comparable to the second quarter? On the R&amp;D front? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Cai I believe it was but just modestly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then the degree of success the 37 1/2% you've got on the tender offer I think really was less than we expected.
Any sense as to why it was not more successful? And what's your strategy going forward to kind of deal with that issue? Well Cai I mean obviously our intent in doing the tender was that we felt that given the equity levels and given the availability of what is still relatively low-cost term debt that it was the right move for the company to sort of trade out some of that what could be higher-cost convertible debt for normal term debt.
And so that was the whole purpose obviously of doing the tender.
There's no question that the expectations going into it that we were hopeful that we would get a number considerably larger than 37 1/2%.
But in terms of why it didn't happen I think the bottom line is a lot of investors out there said "You know what we like this instrument.
We're getting a 4 1/2% coupon and we've got an option on the stock." And where we are today versus expectations and where it could be in 2013 is sort of a bullish statement.
So we'd like to remove that piece from our capital structure but if you got an investor that thinks that's a good piece of paper it's hard to get them to tender.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last one.
You did particularly well margin-wise at Bell.
Were there any EAC catch-ups or anything like that that would be considered abnormal or was it just great performance? I think it was just great performance.
I mean there is some EAC in there but nothing materially different than sort of a normal quarter flow of comparable quarters EAC.
So these guys are just doing a very nice job at converting on the higher volumes managing costs.
And obviously that's translating into positive numbers for the business.
And frankly on the military side it's been positive for our customers because they're sharing in that benefit.
Next we'll hear from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Scott I think you’ve spoken before about your expectations for the Cessna -- for Cessna book-to-bill to be above one before the end of the year.
Is that still the case? You expect the book-to-bill to be above one in the fourth quarter? David I always dream of getting back to book-to-bill of greater than one.
I don't know if the fourth quarter's going to be it or not.
I would be kind of surprised.
I mean obviously we're going to have -- we still think we're going to have pretty strong deliveries in the fourth quarter.
And so I think what we see is enough order flow to continue to make that happen for the fourth quarter and the kind of order flow that we expect to need as we continue to roll and to support the 2012 delivery rates.
But I don't think that number's going get up above a 1:1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Looking at your updated earnings guidance it looks like if I adjust for the charge on the convert it looks like you're implying the fourth quarter’s somewhere between $0.28 and $0.38.
Is my math right? And if so what are the kind of puts and takes as to why the fourth quarter will be lower than the third quarter? Well you're right.
You've got $0.08 or so in there that's going to be a result of the charges on the conversion -- I'm sorry on the convert tender.
I think we're going to see some higher costs associated just down at the corporate expense level.
We probably will have a little bit higher loss on the Finance business as a result of a couple of deals that we think are going to close here in the quarter and some of the restructuring.
So I think the manufacturing level we'll probably see a little bit better performance in terms of [indiscernible] in the quarter but that's going to be offset by sort of the Finance loss to convert tender and some higher corporate expense.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question.
Any initial thoughts on pension in 2012 both from an expense standpoint and then from a contribution standpoint? I'll let Frank take the pension.
Yes.
So no we're still working through the numbers.
Obviously with interest rates where they are there's the potential for a discount rate change versus where we had previously been but we don't work through all those items until the fourth quarter.
Obviously our 10-K gives the sensitivities around some of those changes which again for a discount rate change would be $25 million for 50 basis point change.
So we may see some headwinds associated with assumptions.
We may see some favorability associated with some actuarial work we're doing around -- kind of continue to do around our workforce and kind of the assumptions that are made on that side of things.
So we do think -- overall we expect to see some level of headwind but we've got a lot of work to do before we have any ability to provide you with better guidance on it.
Next we'll hear from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
What needs to happen in the fourth quarter at Cessna in order for you to get to the top end of your guidance range for the year? And then the second question is if you could just walk us through the Industrial businesses and kind of talk about the outlooks for each of them for the fourth quarter and kind of what the trend line has been particularly in automotive.
Sure.
So obviously Cessna for us to finish at the top end needs to come through and meet the guidance that we've been giving you guys which is deliveries for the total year 2011 up slightly from what we had in 2010.
In terms of execution I think the team is pretty well positioned to make that happen.
There are still some sales that have to close for that to happen.
So it's not by any stretch a done deal but I think the prospect lists and the work the sales teams are doing around the world are going to if not get there entirely get pretty close to it.
So it's -- I think achievable at this point but there is still work to be done there.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry the question was a little bit more directed on the margin rate for Cessna for the year.
On the margin rate? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well I mean the margin rate is largely going to follow that volume coming through.
Research Division</strong> So it's volume is the most important part? Sure.
I mean we'll continue as I said to make the improvements in terms some of the cost positions and particularly in a couple of models like the CJ4 getting our profitability back up.
But I think we're pretty well on track in that regard.
So at this point it's a matter of making sure we convert on a number of aircraft deliveries.
Research Division</strong> And then on the Industrial side? On the Industrial side I would say that particularly around the automotive business the volumes continue to grow.
Frankly the margin rate in the auto side was probably a little lighter than I would like to see it.
And that's primarily driven by -- the good news is there's a number of new platforms that were launched in the quarter which gives us good volume going forward.
There's also been a number of OEM moves around the world where we also then have to move some of our capacity around the world to be there with them.
And it wasn't a disaster but there were a couple of operational misses in there that resulted in some of the volume coming through without the margin rates that we're accustomed to seeing in that business.
Those are short-term issues so I think as we get those production lines stabilized and those new platforms stabilized that we'll see the margin rates come with it.
So at least at this point I think if you look at what the CSM data's telling you and the industry is that they're expecting at the OEM level continued growth.
I think we're very well positioned on a number of those new platforms.
And so we will see that growth come through and come through with the kind of margins that we expect to see going forward.
So bottom line a little bit of softness in the quarter but that was really just getting the execution on a couple of new ramp-ups going and I think we'll be all right long term.
Next Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Scott you mentioned about the general level of uncertainty that's out there in the broader economic world at the moment.
I was wondering if you could maybe talk about how this had impacted your activity maybe over this quarter.
You mentioned how Cessna orders have held up pretty well.
But has this had any impact on your ability to convert maybe at TFC? Are you seeing order rates in Industrial slowing down? Or if you’ve got any other broader comments that would be helpful.
Well I think environmentally we haven't really seen any deviation from what we expected to see let's say at TFC.
So the liquidations continue to be of the magnitude that we expected.
I would say that across our portfolio whether it's TFC or the Industrial businesses the golf markets around the world continue to be pretty soft particularly the U.S.
And so we are continuing to see liquidation for instance in the golf portfolio but not big numbers.
And we continue to see a softness in the golf-related industrial products.
So that's one industry that I would say environmentally is still pretty challenged.
If you looked at Cessna as I said I think if you look at the amount of uncertainty around the economy today versus where we were a year ago a year ago when you had these kinds of issues particular with respect to sovereign debt it really had a major impact on what was going on with our customers and the order flow.
This year it has not had a significant impact.
So we continue to see order flow despite a lot of those uncertainties.
Western Europe would certainly be the one that has been the most challenged I think in terms of order activity.
But the U.S.
actually has been kind of continuing at its pace.
The Latin Americas and the Asia regions also seem to have a fairly strong level of customer activity that's going on.
So I'd say environmentally the only real challenge I see across the portfolio is really in the golf and turf area.
Most of it other than that has continued to flow.
The Tool business actually is doing fairly well.
As I said the automotive business continues to be fairly strong.
And most pieces of the portfolio don't seem to have been hit too hard.
Obviously in the defense side from an environment standpoint there's a lot of budget uncertainty out there.
There's a lot of programs that are being delayed.
The amount of time it takes to evaluate a contract – to issue a contract.
We see a lot of slowdown in that area and that's why you see sort of the flat top line in the systems business.
And I would say at this point in time given all the uncertainties in Washington around the DoD budgets that we'll see that continue to be an issue here for some time.
LLC Research Division</strong> And a couple of quick follow-ups on that.
You mentioned that there's differences within the order flow at Cessna by region.
I was just wondering where your overseas orders maybe ended the quarter.
Because I know it's been over 50% at some point.
So I wonder if that's still the trend.
And then on the defense side as well what sort of level of delay are we seeing in orders being awarded? Is it like 2 to 3 months more than you normally expect? I think a lot of -- on the defense side you really have to think almost in terms of quarter.
So programs that we would have thought at the beginning of the year would be awarded in the third or fourth quarter this year are now out in the first and second quarter of next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> So regional splits sorry? The regional splits orders are very lumpy.
But I mean if we talked about deliveries I mean we're obviously particular with Europe in a little bit different place from where we were before but it's really been more like a 70%-30% in terms of domestic versus international.
And that can wander back maybe closer to 60-40 kind of range but it's -- I think it's going to be in that range for a little while.
Next we'll go to the line of Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research.
I’d just like to dig into Bell a little bit more.
The margins really do look extraordinary.
And I guess if there is nothing unusual going on there I’d just like to kind of understand better the components of the strength and how should we think about it going forward.
You seem to imply in your Q4 remarks that overall manufacturing not dissimilar to Q3.
I don't know if that applies to Bell specifically.
But can you give us some sense how you get to 16%? We've got a couple of quarters in a row where Bell margins have been better and the talk has been maybe they can't stay this high and they seem to kind of keep going up.
Well I think we had pretty favorable mix in the third quarter.
Obviously the military stuff continues to go along.
We had some good commercial deliveries.
As I think you know Jeff there's a fair bit of variation in each of these model types in terms of profitability.
The aftermarket obviously is good profitable part of the business.
So I think if you look from the third quarter to the fourth quarter the knot [ph] will be up at Bell but also obviously on higher revenues.
And I would say that I think the team's performance continues to be strong across all the platforms but we will have more 429s.
And that does put some pressure on the margins but there's nothing unusual going on.
I think the team is just doing an excellent job of executing on the increased volumes.
And I think that is a trend that will continue.
Can you give us a sense then just on a normalized basis if you look out at your V-22 and your H-1 ramp and you’ve got kind of a view on commercial kind of a range of what you would say is the normalized margin of Bell? Well I don't think we'll talk about that just yet Jeff.
I mean we'll obviously give you guys 2012 guidance and try to put some balance around that at that time but we'll give you that in January.
And then I guess -- I mean Frank you were asked on the pension question and I understand you’ll snap a line on 12/31.
But do you have a sense just kind of where things stand today kind of at least put us in the ballpark of what we might expect next year? Jeff as I said there's so many moving pieces to it.
Obviously the markets have been bouncing all over the place in terms of asset returns.
We are doing the work as I said on the actuarial side which we do on a regular basis but we've got kind of an experienced set now in a more stabilized workforce environment that we are looking at.
And so there's probably kind of a bit more of a positive impact there than when we've looked at this previously.
And we just don't know kind of what those assumptions on discount rate and return might look like.
I mean you'll recall as we sat here this time last year we had a very low interest rate environment and therefore there was all kinds of concerns about what those assumptions were going to be.
And then at the year end it was quite different.
So obviously we're in an environment where we expect rates to stay low and therefore some discount rate pressure reflected on the expenses but there'll probably -- there'll be some offset to that.
So there are numbers out there that you guys have around headwind that seem as kind of as reasonable a range as I could give you right now kind of to think about because there's just too many moving pieces to it.
Next we'll hear from the line of George Shapiro with Access 3:42.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to pursue Cessna a little bit more.
I mean on a sequential basis the incremental margins were closer to 50%.
And the question I've got is how much of that was really due to what's clearly a favorable mix versus how much Scott Ernest is able to implement already? Let's just run our numbers George.
I think it was marked in the mid-20s in terms of the sequentials which is kind of what we would expect with the mix of aircraft particularly with a stronger mix of the light mids versus the Mustangs.
So as I said earlier I think the -- that kind of leverage given that kind of mix on the volume is appropriate.
We have had some models where we've been at a lower level of profitably than we would like to do.
And I think Scott and the whole team out there are continuing to be very very focused at getting those models in-line and we've seen progress steadily as we've gone through the year.
So I think that the team is doing a nice job.
I think they'll continue to do that and they have obviously challenges in front of them to make that -- to drive that cost as we continue into the fourth quarter and obviously for 2012.
And I think just as importantly the real drive and focus around the rhythm of sales and putting more feet on the street and being a lot more aggressive about getting out there and capturing business.
I mean we're certainly seeing the benefits of that.
But I think the bottom line George is that leverage from sequential quarter-to-quarter is probably more in the mid-20s.
LLC</strong> All right.
I'll check my numbers then.
I thought it was that way year-over-year but more sequentially.
Year-over-year it will be much larger George but sequentially it was the low-20s.
Yes.
That's probably right George.
Probably have it the other way.
The year-over-year where you had a lot of issues on...
We went from a loss to making money so it's really kind of...
LLC</strong> I may have said it backwards.
Yes.
So the year-over-year is a little distorted just because of the nature of where we were and losing money but the sequentials you should see to be in the mid-20s.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just Scott sequentially orders were actually down from the second quarter.
I mean was that kind of expected given the normally weak July and August? Or was that something that was -- because I was expecting it to be sequentially a little bit better.
Well yes I think that the order rate was actually fairly strong and pretty consistent with where we were in the second quarter but we did have some out-year cancellations that influenced the backlog number which is probably what's skewing the number for you George.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Okay.
So if I took out the cancellations it would have been closer to what you saw on a gross basis in the second quarter? Yes.
Next we'll go to Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First I want to follow up on George's question about the mid-20s incremental margins you saw in 3Q.
Given the volume you expect to see into 4Q any reason to think those incremental margins won't stay there? Any puts and takes on mix or R&amp;D? Well let's just say we still have work to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean is there any mix or R&amp;D issues? Or is it more this quarter you had kind of great operating results and you don't want to count on them until you see them persistently? Well look I think we had very strong operating results.
I think we have a lot of work to do to keep that going.
We have a little bit of mix going on.
As I say I don't want to necessarily get into guiding quarter by quarter on margin rates here but to try to sustain that level of leverage we still have some work to do in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then Frank I guess a clarification on the pension side I just wanted to understand your comment about demographics and the plan.
Are you actually looking to maybe shift the amortization of gains and losses over the remaining life of the employees versus the service life? I mean are we at that level of change to the assumptions similar to what Goodrich or Rockwell Collins did last year? No what I was referring to is kind of has nothing to do with the accounting treatment of it.
It has to do with just continuing to look at the profile of our employees in terms of when they're retiring kind of the amount of attrition we have at various stage groups and continuing to update kind of how that experience set impacts all of the actuarial assumptions that go into all the pension calculations.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then on Bell lastly back to the questions about outperforming your own expectations on a pretty consistent basis.
When is the next repricing that you'd have to worry about? Is it not until the multiyear expiration in '13 '14 that would be a kind of material repricing event? Or is there anything near-term that could put downward pressure on some of your more established programs? Well I mean there's a sharing that goes on in the existing V-22 contract and so that will always put some downward pressure on it because there's a share line.
And then of course on things like the H-1 there's an annual negotiation around that pricing.
Research Division</strong> So I guess I'm not going to get more out of the long-term expectations for Bell margins then.
Not at this time.
Next we'll go to the line of Julian Mitchell with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question really on the Bell commercial orders outlook someone like Eurocopter as recently as September was saying the U.S.
for them in terms of the commercial order sort of tempo in customer conversations was trending sort of pretty well.
I just wondered what your thoughts were on the commercial orders outlook in Bell.
I feel pretty great about where Bell commercial is right now.
I think our order intake rate has been good.
We've been seeing wins from customers that we haven't done a lot of business with in many years.
So I think as you know we really started almost 2 years ago really trying to reestablish ourselves and put a lot of additional resource and focus into the commercial side of Bell Helicopter and that sales force and we feel great about where that's going.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Industrial business you've seen a number of sort of the automotive OEMs the production outlook seems to be deteriorating particularly in Europe.
You said obviously near term you’ve got a boost from new platforms.
You’ve also been doing some reorganization globally.
I just wondered if there was any effort in the auto piece of Industrial to do some kind of more fundamental cost takeout just on the assumption that production volumes may deteriorate even though obviously you get some tailwind from platforms being launched.
Well we certainly look as we go through our annual operating plans we look at every platform we're on.
We understand from the OEMs' perspective what those lines are going to look like.
And obviously we understand what can happen if you have a general slowdown in one region or more than one region for that matter in the automotive sector.
So our ability to take out cost and size those operations appropriately for even what would be a significant downturn in volume is something that we're all too familiar with.
So in the event that that really plays out we certainly have the playbook if you will on how to address that.
But right now at least the feedback we're getting from the OEMs on all of our platforms is still indicating that there'll be pretty stable steady growth.
But absolutely if that changes we know what we need to do to take cost out of that business and continue to operate through a down cycle.
And Julian as a point of history for this past year I think that we've been hearing a concern about slower volumes through the year and that just has not materialized.
Every quarter the total outlook for the year has pretty much remained consistent with our original outlook for our business.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So the sort of the migration of capacity that you mentioned earlier that's more to do with as you say just lining up better with the OEM customers.
It's not to do with some kind of general volume slowdown concern.
No that's right.
I mean particularly Julian I mean you see more growth in China.
I mean that's becoming a -- obviously it already is the biggest automotive market in the world.
And as you see more and more of our customers increasing their capacity and production rates we go there with them right? I mean we need to locate and have our production capabilities more or less adjacent to them.
So we continue to see that trend.
But we're seeing really relatively stable volumes even in a lot of our Western European operations.
So it's something that everybody worries about.
And if you read the headlines you’d think “Geez automotive is going to collapse ” and obviously we watch it very very closely but it has not happened this year.
It's been staying on track.
Next we'll hear from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is Mayur in for Carter.
I just had a question on systems.
Scott I wonder if you can talk a little bit about the potential risk that you see to systems next year as part of the whole budgetary debate? Well I think as I said earlier I believe we're going to continue to see a slow pace of new programs and contract awards.
It's not that nothing's happening.
I mean they did just come out with the -- and awarded the ASB reset program which we won.
There are quite a number of programs that we have proposals in.
And it's just the pace at which new program requirements come out the speed at which RFPs are ultimately released and evaluations are done I think there's just a general slowdown.
And as I said earlier I don't think that's going to change as we go through 2012 with all the uncertainties around their budgets.
So as we look at most of our programs and significant contract opportunities we think it won't be unusual to see those things slide to the right 3 to 6 months.
It's not that new programs aren't going to happen or that contract awards aren't going to happen but the guys in the building that do all this sorts of work are really sort of overloaded at this point with all of these different budgetary exercises and the amount of time they're having to spend modeling and thinking about what different configurations or what program opportunities timing there's a lot of different sort of churn if you will within the building that these guys are having to do to respond and react to all the different potential budget outcomes.
And that's frankly a lot of work.
It's on top of what they would normally be doing.
And so I think that's resulting in a general delay of a lot of programs.
So I think obviously we don't want to get into 2012 guidance at this point but that is going to pressure the top line at the systems business.
And I think it obviously is having an impact on what our expectations would have been this year to where we're down below a couple billion of revenue and I think it's going to continue to pressure that top line in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a quick follow-up.
On the -- you have a $0.10 variance in the Q4 estimate.
I wonder if you can just clarify what is behind that variance? What are the main drivers? I'm not sure what you mean by variance.
It's the $1.05 to $1.15.
Are you talking about the spread? I think the bulk of it is really going to be -- where do we end up on Cessna deliveries will drive the bulk of that swing.
As I say we still do have some aircraft to sell and there's work going on to make that happen.
But there's still some variability in terms of obviously in the business jet market today what that total number of deliveries will be.
So in my mind and when I look at sort of what's the variable in the quarter that's probably the most significant.
That is the most significant.
And I think it all ties around the macroeconomic environment.
I mean with the volatility that we've been dealing with you just really be unwise not to have that kind of a view on potential outcomes.
Next we'll hear from the line of Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Drew in for Steve this morning.
I just wanted to follow up on the 4Q guidance.
I mean the EPS range on a headline basis is basically unchanged except for the adjustment to the below-the-line items.
But at the segment level just to understand what is changed versus the last quarter.
It feels like Cessna and Industrial are probably about the same Bell a little bit better Systems may be a little bit weaker.
Is that the kind of the right way to think about it? And then walk us through kind of what's changed in the outlook.
Well as you know Drew we don't really do quarter-to-quarter kind of guidance per se.
But the numbers the way I would see the quarter playing out is I think we'll see a little bit stronger outperformance out of the Manufacturing businesses particularly Bell and Cessna.
But when you do a quarter-over-quarter comparison you're going to see the pressures of the cost of the convert flowing through there.
I think you'll see some higher corporate expense.
You'll see a little bit higher loss quarter-over-quarter in the Financial Service business.
And that's really where you end up on the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
But I mean your Manufacturing free cash guide hasn't changed.
So fundamentally there hasn't been a change looking at the way you look at the year now versus at the end of the last quarter? That's right.
No there really hasn't been.
I mean as I said we're still believe – granted towards the top of the range but that we'll see the number of Cessna deliveries we expected and we'll see the number of Bell deliveries that we expected.
So there really -- from an operational perspective we don't really see a change in terms of what our expectations were for the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then just lastly did you guys give a cash conversion number at TFC? It was about 80% in the quarter.
In a moment we'll hear from the line of Noah Poponak.
[Operator Instructions] Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of clarifications.
If I understood your comments correctly it's dynamic and a moving target and you're not giving '12 guidance.
But with what you see now you would expect the Industrial top line more likely to be up in '12 versus '11 despite Europe auto production probably being down and the Systems top line in '12 with what you see now a good chance of being down in '12 versus '11.
Is that a correct interpretation? With you I don't even need to give guidance.
Perfect.
All right ladies and gentlemen I believe we have no more calls in queue.
Thank you for joining us today and we'll see you in January.
Thank you very much.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes our conference today.
We appreciate your participation as well as your using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
And you may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Textron Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
We will now like to turn the conference over to our host Doug Wilburne Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Terry and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Moving now to fourth quarter results starting with Slide 3.
Revenues in the quarter were $3.3 billion up 4.1% from a year ago.
On a GAAP basis we recorded a loss from continuing operations of $0.06 per share which compares to earnings per share of $0.20 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Last year's EPS included $0.13 in special charges.
Because we're reporting a loss in the quarter the per-share loss is based on a basic share count of 279 million shares.
Looking at Slide 4.
This year's result included a number of onetime items which resulted in a $0.55 reduction to fourth quarter EPS.
Before we go through each of the items let me point out that the amounts on this schedule are based on fully diluted shares specifically 292.5 million shares for the fourth quarter and 307.3 million shares for the full year.
So starting with the first item.
We recorded a $186 million pretax mark-to-market charge in the Golf Mortgage portfolio and our Finance segment in the quarter.
We also recorded a $55 million pretax loss in corporate expenses reflecting the impact of convertible note purchases we completed during the quarter.
As you may recall we received $225 million in face value of notes in response to our public tender offer.
Subsequent to the tender we purchased another $159 million of notes.
So on a full year basis the total after tax impact of the convertible purchases was $0.13 per share $0.08 of which related to the tender notes and was included in our most recent full year guidance.
We also recorded $60 million in pretax charges at Textron Systems.
This included a $41 million charge for intangible impairments and an approximate $19 million charge for severance costs.
Working in the opposite direction was $59 million in pretax income resulting from a payment of a note receivable from the company's 2008 sale of its Fluid &amp; Power business.
$52 million of this amount was recorded as an offset to corporate expense and $7 million was recorded as an offset to interest expense.
So after adjusting for these items our fourth quarter earnings were $0.49 per share with full year at $1.31.
Moving to cash flow.
Fourth quarter manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was $545 million bringing our full year amount to $1 billion.
Full year pension contributions were $642 million.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
Capped off the year with a solid fourth quarter with Cessna segment profit up $37 million; Bell up $29 million; and Industrial up $24 million.
We all saw a continued progress with another $386 million in liquidations at Textron Financial.
That brings our full year liquidation to $1.5 billion.
At the end of the quarter we also moved the remaining Golf Mortgage portfolio into the held-for-sale category.
As a result of the mark we are now projecting the Finance segment will be approximately breakeven for the year.
Looking at Slide 5 our non-captive portfolio is now below the $1 billion mark at $950 million with about $380 million in Golf Mortgage and about $320 million in timeshare.
For the smaller portfolio our annual liquidations will also be smaller so we're anticipating about $350 million in non-captive receivable liquidations in 2012.
Moving to systems.
Revenues were down slightly in the quarter consistent with what we've been seeing through the entire year as a result of DoD program delays and project cancellations.
Looking at 2012 with continued DoD spending pressures we're expecting a relatively flat top line for the year.
As a result we're executing a rightsizing plan at Systems which is reflected in the severance charge we recorded in the fourth quarter.
We're taking these actions to improve our cost competitiveness in a tighter budget environment.
We'll continue to invest in new products DoD opportunities and prospects for foreign military sales.
In the meantime we have a number of important program proposals which should be decided this year and should clarify the growth outlook for Systems.
In terms of 2012 we anticipate flat revenues and margins in the 10% range.
Shifting to Industrial.
We continue to see good volume expansion in the quarter with Greenlee and Kautex with Golf volumes relatively flat.
We saw margin improvement at the segment with fourth quarter margins at 6.9% versus 3.9% last year and 5.6% in third quarter.
Looking at 2012 given the unfavorable prevailing foreign exchange rates and uncertainty in European markets we have a conservative top line expectation for the Industrial segment resulting in flattish revenues and margins.
Moving to Cessna.
We delivered 67 jets in the quarter down from last year's 79 reflecting our success this year in balancing deliveries between the third and the fourth quarters.
In total we delivered 183 jets up from 179 in 2010.
The big driver of this growth was the excellent receptivity in the marketplace for our CJ4 as we delivered 48 in 2011 versus 19 last year.
Order activity for the CJ4 remains good in large part due to the fact that the aircraft's performance is exceeding our expectations as is usually the case with our Citation products.
With respect to the overall order environment despite continued economic uncertainty the fourth quarter was our strongest order quarter of the year.
As we enter 2012 we continue to be in a spot market but believe the market demand should build throughout the year.
Coupled with our enhanced sales and marketing capabilities we believe 2012 deliveries will be up modestly.
We also expect margin improvement with increased volumes despite planned increases in R&amp;D spending as we continue to improve cost productivity.
Longer term we expect jet growth will accelerate as the global economy stabilizes emerging markets develop further and our new products roll into the marketplace.
In fact customer reaction to our 2 most recent entrants the M2 and the Latitude has been very good and initial deliveries of those models should contribute to growth as they continue to come to the market in 2013 and '15 respectively.
Now to wrap up with Bell.
Execution across our programs continues to be outstanding and that was reflected in our strong margins in the quarter.
We delivered 7 V-22s 6 H-1s and 62 commercial helicopters in the quarter versus 7 V-22s 7 H-1s and 71 commercial units in the last year's fourth quarter.
On the military side we continue to have excellent execution and delivery commitments cost productivity and quality.
Looking forward we're actively pursuing FMS opportunities for both H-1 and V-22.
In fact we had an enthusiastic reception by a number of potential FMS customers at the recent Dubai Air Show.
We took a number of them on demo flights so they could experience the impressive capabilities of V-22 technology firsthand.
After a flight in an actual V-22 there's no question in the customers' mind with respect to how valuable this asset would be in the armed services.
On the commercial side of the business we're seeing the benefit of investments we've been making in product development and sales capabilities with very strong order flow.
Most recently our 429 helicopter was selected by the Turkish National Police for their fleet with a requirement of 15 to 20 aircraft.
The 429 also received an additional 500 pounds of lift certification from Transport Canada increasing its gross weight to 7 500 pounds which meaningfully increases the value of the aircraft for our customers.
Looking to 2012 based on our current commercial backlog and customer activity underway we expect a significant increase in commercial deliveries from the 125 aircraft delivered in 2011.
Along with program increases in our military platforms we expect Bell revenues to grow nearly 20% with strong margins.
In summary I think we had a good year despite continued volatility in a tough global economic environment.
Textron Systems is clearly affected by the DoD budget challenges but we are taking actions to improve our competitiveness in this new environment.
And Industrial last year's top line -- 10% top line growth reflected growth in auto volume and our continued investment in new products.
Cessna showed good progress improving cost productivity throughout the year revamped the sales process and launched 2 exciting new products.
Bell performance at an all-time record and just as importantly we announced new products with more to come.
Overall we substantially strengthened our balance sheet as we liquidated another major portion of our non-captive portfolio and generated strong manufacturing cash flow allowing us to reduce our consolidated net debt by $1.5 billion to $3.5 billion.
Looking forward we believe our overall growth outlook is good as we continue to pursue a strategy of rapid new product development.
Looking to 2012 on a projected overall revenue increase of about 11% our guidance for EPS from continuing operations is in the $1.80 to $2 range.
Cash flow from manufacturing operations before pension contributions is expected to be $700 million to $750 million with pension contributions of about $200 million.
With that I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Manufacturing segment profit in the quarter was $268 million up $27 million from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Let's look at how each of the manufacturing segments contributed starting with Cessna.
At Cessna revenues were up $51 million on a year-over-year basis as lower jet deliveries were more than offset asset by higher volumes in propeller products and aftermarket.
We posted an operating profit of $60 million an improvement of $37 million from the fourth quarter of 2010 reflecting better cost performance.
At Bell revenues were up $35 million segment profit increased $29 million reflecting strong program performance.
At Systems revenues were down $14 million.
Segment profit decreased $63 million reflecting the previously mentioned charges and lower revenue.
Industrial revenues increased $70 million primarily due to higher overall volume.
Segment profits increased $24 million reflecting improved performance and a higher volume.
Finance segment revenues were down $15 million as a result of our ongoing liquidation activities.
The Finance segment loss increased $175 million primarily due to the mark-to-market charge.
Looking at Slide 8 in terms of credit performance before taking into account the impact of the reclassification of the Golf Mortgage portfolio non-accrual finance receivables decreased from $606 million in the third quarter to $566 million.
And 60-day-plus delinquencies decreased from $275 million to $241 million.
However when receivables are transferred to held for sale they are removed from these credit performance metrics.
Therefore non-accruals ended the year at $321 million and 60-day delinquencies were $166 million.
Taking a look at Slide 9 our Finance segment capital structure reflects a 5.9x leverage ratio well below our long-term target of 7x and consistent with our plan to achieve our liquidation strategy without the need for any new permanent capital.
Moving to corporate items.
Corporate expenses were $39 million down from $48 million last year primarily due to the impact that our lower share price had on compensation expense.
Interest expense was down $10 million from a year ago primarily as a result of the $7 million in interest income associated with the collection on the Fluid &amp; Power asset sale.
Turning to pensions and looking at Slide 10.
We are reducing our discount rate and long-term rate of return assumptions and we're estimating that 2012 pension costs will be approximately flat.
We would've had an increase in pension expense given the discount rate and long-term rate of return revisions.
However the impact of changes in plan participant behavior and workforce demographics and last year's cash contributions to the pension plans offset these headwinds.
Turning to Slide 11.
We are planning to increase R&amp;D spending for 2012 by $110 million to about $590 million or 4.8% of sales.
This includes program-focused efforts in our businesses as well as some product development activity at corporate.
We also plan to invest slightly more in CapEx this year about $450 million compared to $423 million last year.
These investments are consistent with our emphasis on new product development and improving cost productivity.
Now flipping to Slide 12 here's a summary of 2012 segment guidance.
We're expecting about 14% revenue growth at Cessna and 19% at Bell with a flattish top line outlook for Systems and Industrial.
At Finance as Scott indicated earlier we're expecting non-captive receivable liquidations of about $350 million.
with segment profit approximately breakeven for the year.
Looking at Slide 13.
We're projecting about $145 million for corporate expense which reflects the impact of a higher share price and the cost for the previously mentioned product development activity.
Interest expense at $140 million is flat with last year and we're expecting an increase in our tax rate to about 32% primarily reflecting the expiration of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit.
And we're assuming an average share count of about 294 million shares.
With respect to our EPS guidance to give you a sense of the underlying improvement in our business take a look at Slide 14 which is a walk from our 2011 GAAP results of $0.79 at the midpoint of our 2012 guidance range.
$0.52 of the improvement relates to the elimination of the fourth quarter onetime items and $0.37 reflects the elimination of Finance segment operating losses.
There's a pick-up of $0.09 primarily due to lower convertible share dilution.
We have a tax rate headwind of about $0.04 primarily related to the expiration of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit and $0.31 in headwinds from higher R&amp;D and depreciation.
This means that we expect our underlying manufacturing business to generate approximately $0.48 increase in earnings per share.
I'd like to wrap up with a final comment about our liquidity outlook.
With the financing actions we took last year and the liquidation success we have had with TFC we have made significant progress from a capital structure and financing point of view.
Looking at the next 2 years we have $200 million of debt coming due in 2012 and $1.1 billion in 2013 which we believe can be satisfied even under a reasonable downside scenario with our current cash balance of nearly $900 million and expected cash flows at TFC in the manufacturing businesses.
That concludes our prepared remarks Terry we can open the line for questions.
Our first question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Scott the book-to-bill at Cessna when you calculate just straight up on sales looks like it was about 0.7.
But when you look just at the jet side x Mustang was that number closer to 1? Because I know the sales number includes a fair amount of service revenues used aircraft revenues.
David I haven't done the math that way to look at that.
I mean I'm sure it's a more favorable number but I think what's more important at this stage of the game where Cessna is and where the light to medium-sized business jet recovery is is this is all about selling aircraft.
So for sure there's some backlog there but we're out -- as we look at our numbers and what we're guiding you to in terms of revenue in the business.
This is all about selling airplanes and that's where we've been sort of for the last 2 years.
So where we're guiding where we think the revenue is going to go where the jet volume is going to go as we kind of say up modestly is really more based on our view of the current marketplace the level of customer activity and what we think we'll be able to close in terms of orders which largely we'll be converting to sales just as they have been in the last couple of years.
So my principal view is see us up modestly is based on sort of the tone of the marketplace and what's going on with the sales guys.
And I'd love if we had this big backlog and could tell you "Loo it's all locked up " but that's not where we've been for the last 2 years.
And we've been pretty accurate about gauging the market and getting the orders in converting into sales and I think that's where we're going to be in 2012.
And our next question comes from the line of Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Scott a question on Cessna's pre-R&amp;D margins.
Can you give us a sense as to where you were in 2011 and '12 considering that R&amp;D is going up this year? How shall we think about it in a pre-R&amp;D basis? I think on a pre-R&amp;D basis we are seeing some margin expansion.
This past year I think we've even seen that through the course of the year as we attacked particularly the cost issues around the CJ4 and have gotten that where it's now back to reasonably healthy margins.
So I think if you look at sort of the contribution margin level we'll continue to see improvements in that through the course of the year.
We're assuming relatively flat on the pricing side.
So I think the improvements you're going to see are going to largely -- because obviously there's some benefit and some additional volume.
We obviously have the headwind of the R&amp;D but I do think just the underlying contribution margin will continue to improve.
And our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question Scott on the -- you talked about the tone of the market.
I wondered if you might speak to what you're hearing seeing from the sales guys on a geographic level U.S.
versus Europe versus emerging markets and what sort of things particularly you're seeing in the U.S.
with there being such a large market and having presumably some sort of pent-up replacement demand.
Is that an area of strength? Or any color there would be helpful.
Well it certainly is Carter.
I mean I think if you looked at the sort of geographic lay of the land our deliveries over the course of this year have largely been U.S.
It's probably around the 70-30 split U.S.
versus international at this point.
That seems to be the trend.
I would expect to see numbers pretty consistent with that 70-30 split as we go through 2012.
So the U.S.
as you say very large installed base.
Customers are used to upgrading certain amount of pent-up demand where people know it's getting to be time to do this.
And I think that's what's driving a fair bit of the activity.
The Latin America markets continue to be pretty strong.
We still see some strength in some of the Indonesia Southeast Asia regions that are creating some demand particularly strong for some of our Caravan turboprop lines some activity in Eastern Europe.
Western Europe I would say is pretty quiet at this point.
So again I think in total it's been sort of a 70-30 market.
And I would expect to see that trend through 2012.
And our next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update on the V-22 program? I guess at one point you all sounded fairly confident about a second multi-year then that's ebbed towards maybe that not happening and now that discussion seems to be picking back up.
Can you tell us what you expect to learn in this Pentagon deliberations over the next few weeks on V-22? And if you could walk through the next several year kind of unit outlook you see there that would be very helpful.
Sure.
So I think Noah the conversations between ourselves and the Marine Corps and the acquisition side have stayed pretty constant with respect to V-22 and the outlook for another multi-year.
We've submitted proposals.
Those proposals have been going through the analytical process in the Pentagon in terms of justification around a multi-year versus a series of single-year contracts.
That's usually a fairly long elaborate process and it's proving to be exactly that.
But I think that there's general views both on from our perspective and the government's perspective that a multi-year is the right answer for the program.
So I would say I remain pretty bullish that that's going to happen.
It's certainly our desire.
I believe it's our customers' desire to make that happen.
So I think what you'll see happen now is -- the original basis was on sort of original program of record volume expectations.
I think everyone has known for some time now that the reality would be that the rate of production when you get out to 2015 and on will be at a lower per annum number.
And so we're in the process now of working through with the government and revising the numbers to reflect lower rates of production.
But that process is continuing and I'm still again fairly bullish that we will end up with another multi-year.
And that process will work its way out here probably through 2012.
I think again we want to see that happen.
The customer would like to see that happen.
We all know it's the best economic outcome for the customer.
So that being said I do believe that the rates on V-22 which are still ramping as we go into 2012 and then they kind of hold steady through '13 and '14 my expectation is that the U.S.
government side of this thing will be lower in 2015 and on.
And that's why we're outworking FMS opportunities looking at other applications of the product.
There are a number of international customers that are very interested.
And the way we have to look at it is that sure numbers will be down on the U.S.
DoD side in '15 but that actually creates some production capacity to go address the Foreign Military side.
So that's the process that we've undertaken.
We're out selling were interacting with a number of customers to try to fill what will be that production gap when you get out to the 2015 timeframe.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like you think this is up next year flat '13 '14 and then potentially still flat depending on what you do internationally even beyond that.
Yes.
The contracted numbers Noah are 39 in '12 40 in '13 and 36 in '14.
So up then flatten slightly down '13 '14.
But you're right now this is we're basically running at peak capacity for the next 3 years and then we have production slots to fill for 2015.
Research Division</strong> And then on the Bell margin can you speak to -- they've been very good and above expectations can you speak to the degree to which you're theoretically over earning on V-22? Especially potentially V-22 aftermarket? Or if this has just been straight up performance or some mix of the 2? Well I think it's been straight up performance.
I think our margins have been good on V-22.
I think one of the things you're seeing a big swing is our historical margins on H-1 were very poor.
And as we've gotten H-1 and the real production rates and running and driving productivity and efficiency into that we're getting the VH-1 rates to where they should be.
So I think V-22 and H-1 are fair rates as we've overachieved in terms of driving costs.
We've been able to get some better margin and our customers have been able to get benefit out of that as well.
So I think those programs are in good shape.
They're healthy both in terms of original equipment and aftermarket.
You don't see huge swings in the pricing on those original versus aftermarket on the military side.
We continue to see reasonable volumes on our commercial business starting to build the service business doing okay.
The big difference is as we go into 2012 is you're going to see again some increase in V-22 as we talked about going up to the 39 but we expect to see pretty significant increases in original equipment commercial sale.
And obviously we're putting a lot of money into the R&amp;D side of this thing and we have a big announcement here at Heli-Expo and we're ramping up pretty significant program investment.
But all that being said I think our margins will stay strong.
I mean the guidance we're putting out there I think is a pretty solid guidance for a helicopter business.
These are good margins and we'll sustain them.
And our next question comes from the line of Mitchell Julian with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question would be around how you think about the cost base of the company? Because I guess you've got a situation where the backlog's still shrinking in Cessna but the deliveries are looking better.
So how are you thinking about capacity and kind of utilization rates given where capacity is today versus the prior peak? And then also I guess how capacity relates to the defense side of the business where there is some restructuring going on but you're optimistic on the V-22 you have a new multi-year program.
So how are you thinking about managing that cost base down over the next few years? And what are you thinking about the cost base inside Cessna as well? Sure.
So I mean Julian obviously it varies a lot from business-to-business.
So I look at Cessna where we've done a lot of cost reduction over the last couple of years which you would expect given the significant volume reductions that we had.
I think we've probably now turned the corner on that.
We had a slight increase this year.
I think we'll have a modest increase next year in terms of the production volumes.
Obviously the number of new product programs is increasing.
So we're sort of at a point now where we would expect to be growing our -- some cost associated primarily with R&amp;D at Cessna.
We obviously don't need to invest anything in growing raw capacity at Cessna.
Now we do have some additional CapEx.
But again that's all driven around tooling for these new product programs.
So in terms of the physical infrastructure manufacturing facilities metal bonds paint boost that stuff is all in place and ready to go.
So there's no increased capital in that area but I don't think we need to do any more rationalization of that cost or facility because we're actually now going to probably start to turn to higher levels of utilization.
At Cessna -- I'm sorry at Bell the situation in fact we had a note that was out a couple of weeks ago.
One of the things that we're looking at is our capacity as we start to see the levels flat or even decrease in terms of things like V-22s out in 2015.
Historically we've done most of our commercial aircraft final assembly in our facilities in Canada and we've done primarily our military V-22 and H-1 final assemblies in Amarillo.
So we announced that this new program the product which will be announced here at the Heli-Expo shortly.
We've already announced that the production the final assembly of that product will be in Amarillo even though it's a commercial ship.
And the reason for that is we already see capacity expansion or capacity being pretty tight up in our Canadian facilities.
But we know we can have some softness on the military side so we're going to put that production capacity in Amarillo to help balance our utilization of what was wholly dedicated to military to put some commercial volume in there as that commercial volume grows.
If you look across the Systems business part of what we announced yesterday in terms of our restructuring is exactly aimed at an expectation that you will see some lower volumes and lower demand across those businesses.
And obviously if we end up winning some programs and you see some growth then we'll address that.
But I think it's prudent in an environment where you know the budgets are going be tighter and things are going to tend to be delayed and scaled down that we're taking the appropriate charges and size in the cost structure of the business.
So that even if it's a smaller business it's a profitable business.
And our next question comes from line of Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Scott I was wondering if you can comment on the order situation at Cessna it tends to be in the past that the fourth quarter has been a strong quarter for business jet sales and then things have maybe dried up a bit in the subsequent quarter.
Do you see a similar sort of pattern this time around? Yes Rob.
I think the nature of this thing the way it works with tax incentives and whatnot is we've always had the cyclical nature of the fourth quarter being a strong delivery quarter and the first quarter tends to be a fairly weak delivery quarter.
And I think that you're going to see that.
I think that's fairly natural in the way these industry cycles work.
That being said given the strength of what we see on the order rate through the fourth quarter and continuing into the first quarter I certainly expect that we'll have better performance in the first quarter than we had a year ago.
So in terms of profitability it will probably be more in the breakeven.
But I think the good news is we won't be digging ourselves a big hole in the first quarter as we have the last couple of years.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to follow up on the Textron Systems you said you expect the revenues this year 2012 to be roughly flat.
What sort of backlog do you currently have there? Because given the pressures you have in the DoD that would seem like a relatively optimistic forecast.
Well the backlog was $1.3 billion Rob it was down just a little under $200 million from the third quarter.
But again right now backlog is a difficult metric for Systems because of the undefinitized contracts and the like there.
Yes I think -- exactly.
The backlog first of all Rob as you know I mean you have to kind of look at the different pieces of the business to try to kind of understand backlog.
And there is an awful lot too much in my opinion of undefinitized contract work going on where you can have an entire contract executed under an undefinitized contract which means it never goes into backlog because it's not a definitized contract.
So that's a metric that I would be cautious about.
I think if you look at the 3 largest businesses in there ASVs are pretty well spoken for in terms of volume in 2012.
When you start thinking about 2013 and '14 it's largely going to be around what happens with programs like the Canadian TAPV program so again I don't think that was backlog per se.
I think 2012 feels good and again based on contract awards we'll see how things are going into the future in the defense systems Sensor Fuzed Weapon business.
That's a business that I feel pretty comfortable where we are in terms of customers and backlog and order rates that that's probably going to sustain for a number of years at kind of the rates that we're running today.
And then the UAV business is probably going to be in reasonable shape for the year.
It's a number of different contracts a number of different programs mostly upgrades there's some ISR Services programs there's SMSF opportunities.
There are programs that have to be won but in terms of where the budgets are in the government where our backlog is what programs we're executing on I think it again aims towards being a relatively flat year.
And our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Access 3:42.
LLC</strong> Scott just in Textron Systems I mean how realistic do you think it is to have flat revenues there as opposed to down to some extent? Well George again I think that for 2012 we have pretty good insight into the ASV business which is a good size part of the business that's already -- program that we're executing and we'll deliver through the course of the year at the SFW side of things and we know what that is.
Those contracts were already won we're already executing the programs.
There are some things that need to be won on the unmanned air vehicle unmanned air system side of the business but there are several opportunities.
So I think we have reasonable visibility on the year.
I mean depending on what happens in the budgets we can always have some additional haircuts.
But I don't think they'll be dramatic and that's why we kind of guided to flattish.
I mean it could be down a little bit but also it could be up a little bit.
I think it will depend largely on how those program win opportunities go through 2012.
And obviously I think even more important that will give us a lot better insight into what '13 and '14 look like.
LLC</strong> And then one in Bell.
I mean the past 2 years you kind of blown away your Bell margin guidance by a lot.
Why wouldn't you still do a lot better this year since I'm figuring you're at the tail end of the current V-22 multi-year and usually you wind up getting some contract pick-ups in that last year of the contract.
Well I mean I think there's a couple of things here George.
I mean we are forecasting 13% to 14% which are pretty healthy margins.
We do have R&amp;D headwind as we ramp up a significant program in that business.
With respect to these end-of-contract kind of things we have been I think much more diligent at working very hard to make sure that our estimates of completion on these program accounting areas are much more I don't know I won't say realistic but I mean we're trying to make sure that we're doing a better job of forecasting the total program margin and try to avoid having these big end of contract onetime sort of cum catch accounting things.
So I think that the margins that we're booking associated with our revenue are pretty accurate to what the real margin of the programs are.
And to take out some of the conservatism perhaps that others put in there and then end up with these big gains at the end of contract period.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then one just quick one on Cessna.
I mean given that you're more relying on the spot market I mean how do you factor in the margin guidance that you're giving? It would seem like you probably got to be somewhat on the conservative side.
Well I don't know George.
I mean this is kind of year 3 of this.
So trying to understand where the market is what customer event [ph] is going to look like what's going on competitively in the marketplace it really is -- it's a forecast.
But again we've gotten to be fairly good at this.
I mean there's always the disclaimer if jeez things really went -- changed radically in terms of the marketplace then we could see some additional pressures.
But we've aligned our production forecast to where we think it's going to go.
As I said earlier I think we've seen sort of a flattening of price for the most part of the markets.
So we kind of assume that's going to happen.
And then obviously we look at what activities we have internally around cost productivity to support that level of margin rates.
So I think just our view is given where the market is the level of activity on the order rate the discussions with the customers what we're doing inside what we're doing on R&amp;D we feel like this is a hopefully a fairly accurate projection of where we're going to be.
And our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So your R&amp;D you projected is up 50 bps for the year.
Is it fair to assume that all of the businesses except for Systems you're going to see some increase of about 50 bps? Yes.
I think that's fair Cai though I think the majority of it you'll see around Cessna and Bell.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right right.
But those are the biggest absolute numbers.
But so as we think forward beyond 2012 is R&amp;D at Cessna now likely at sort of a plateau level or near a plateau level? Well I think you could still see some increases in the absolute dollars Cai but I think given where we think we're going with revenue you're going to start to see that flat line in terms of on a percent of sales basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And could you give us a little more color? You have a number of competitions in the Systems area.
Could you give us a little more color in terms of what those are when the decisions are and your chances? So well I like our chances Cai.
The most significant programs that are out there you've got the Ship-to-Shore connector which will probably be I think it will be a first half decision.
I don't know if it will be in this quarter but it will probably be in the first half of the year.
You've got the TAPV program which is the armored security vehicle light air platform in the Systems business which is probably going to be likewise.
I don't think it will be first quarter but more likely in the second quarter.
We have several programs in Sensor Fuzed Weapons which I feel very good about in terms of winning in places like the UAE and Saudi Arabia.
We also have some programs on the Unmanned Air Vehicle side and medium UAS and ISR Services that are programs which again are probably in the first quarter second quarter this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And lastly your Golf area that's held for sale are you in negotiations? I mean is there a reasonable chance that that could be gone within the first 6 months? No and no.
I think it's not -- Cai the reason we put it into held for sale is as you know our strategy on virtually all of our assets has been to just hold for investment run them in due course and in the event somebody's  solicited to acquire and look at them we would do that and move them to sale at that time.
And that's obviously been very effective in all of our other asset classes.
Because there's not a lot of liquidity going back into the Golf Mortgage portfolio area we felt that a change of strategy to say we'll hold them for sale so because now we can go out and more actively market those and try to look for opportunities to do that.
So we've obviously just made that change in strategy and obviously taking the accounting that reflects that.
So now we're in a position where we can go out and start to market those assets.
I don't think it's going to be one big transaction.
I don't think it's going to happen within 6 months but I think it gives us the ability to go out there and get a better feel.
Look I mean it's not our objective here to fire-sale these things or feel like we need to do something in 6 months.
Our cash position is great.
But it's just not an asset class that is turning or one where we're getting a lot of inbound traffic.
So I think it's appropriate that we change the strategy put them up for -- it's held for sale and then go start to make inquiries and see what we can do.
So I mean I still think this is probably more like a 2-year time horizon kind of a deal but at least we can get out there and start to market them.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Scott can you speak or maybe Frank just speak to the cash flow outlook for 2012.
Obviously downticking from '11 it looks like D&amp;A and CapEx kind of offset is there anything else in particular that's going on in there that drives the year-over-year delta? No.
We kind of overdrove a bit on cash flow frankly in 2011 Jeff kind of relative to obviously what our guidance had been that the cash flow guidance for '12 is essentially 100% conversion on earnings.
And so it's right in the area that we think is a normalized type rate with frankly some better performance in 2011 causing a bit of the kind of the negative comparability.
And I was also just wondering kind of last question for me just Scott thinking about the cadence here in '12 with Cessna you succeeded in '11 and relatively getting at level although it always ramps towards year end of course but do you see the same type of cadence in '12? Or given that the backlogs are a little leaner going into the year relative to kind of the forecast that maybe it tilts more back-end loaded again? Well I think I would expect it to look more like we saw in '11.
So as I said earlier Jeff I think we're -- clearly our expectations in terms of at cadence in what we're doing out there in selling combined with where customers want to go is that I would expect we'll get off to a better start this year than we have over the last couple of years.
And we'll sustain at that better more level pace through the balance of the year.
So we don't want to see this big -- frankly it's very difficult to run the business effectively with these huge swings.
So the focus of the business clearly is to make this thing more level.
We were successful doing that between Q3 and Q4 and I think we'll be much more level this year.
I want to be cautious.
I mean the third fourth quarter always going to be stronger than the first second quarter.
I mean the first quarter is a challenge.
But again I don't think we will dig as big a hole in the first quarter and we will have something that's more like what you saw in the third and fourth quarter last year in terms of trying to level this thing out.
And our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Scott you talked by the business becoming more a spot business and obviously you've done a good job in the last couple of years managing it to that extent.
Can you give us maybe a little bit more granularity of the 183 jets you delivered in 2011 how many of those were actually bookings in year that were spot bookings? I don't even have that number in front of me.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us any ballpark? I mean honestly I'd be guessing.
When you go through and you look at -- obviously there's a lot of dynamics cancellation to orders and whatnot that are in there.
So no I'm sorry I would be completely guessing.
I just don't have the number.
Also I think the best thing to say is that we've gone into our delivery years with less backlog than in normal circumstances.
And we were clearly in that situation now and I think Scott went through a pretty extensive discussion in terms of those dynamics.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess was curious though if you had $1 billion burn in the backlog this year was that largely because of cancellations? Or because of deliveries from backlog? Obviously they would tell you 2 different things.
It was both.
Research Division</strong> And I guess a clarification on the $180 million outlook for pension expense in 2012 Frank how much of benefit did you get from the change in demographics and I guess choices by the employee base? Yes.
It was kind of $50-ish million $60-ish million of benefit from kind of the various changes that have taken place in terms of kind of our employee profile and kind of attrition rates and things like that as we relooked at the employee base and the trends over the past couple of years.
So it was a meaningful number and obviously the kind that very much helps on a go forward cost basis.
And then the cash contribution was...
Yes.
And then the cash contribution.
And our next question comes from line of Jason Gursky with Citibank.
Research Division</strong> Scott you mentioned the Ship-to-Shore competition that might happen in the first half of this year.
Can you just remind us if you are successful on that what your expectations are around revenue levels and timing? It's not going to have a huge revenue impact in 2012.
That program starts out as a development activity completing the design and then you go into a limited rate production that's probably '13 '14 kind of timeframe.
And then you'd really see production volumes out beyond that.
So an important program obviously but one that's not going to be a big 2012 revenue impact.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
That's helpful.
And then you mentioned several things during the call that pricing at Cessna at this point you expect it to be kind of flattish.
In your experience what are you going to take for pricing power to come back to the industry generally I mean we're at pretty low levels of capacity utilization? Where do you think we need to get kind of industry-wide to see pricing actually firm up and maybe actually starts higher? Well I think there's 2 things.
I mean obviously just some demand in the marketplace never hurts.
I think the other thing is more new products and more differentiation.
So as we look at new products coming into the marketplace things like Latitude where you have some significant differentiation and capability M2 where you've got differentiation in product and some other new things that we have in the pipeline there's no question that refreshes updates and just flat out having a better product always helps a little bit on the price line as well.
So I think it's that combination -- that's why I kind of see things flattish here over the next year because demand is just starting to come back and the current product suite which are great products but there's not a lot of new stuff to say "Hey you're going to pay more than you would have paid 6 months ago because of some new capability." So I think you'll see some slight lift on price in the sort of the near to medium term just as demand comes back and then you'll see better pricing you should start to see more and more product differentiation.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one last one just on the Systems side.
Do you have any ability to participate in the JLTV or what is it going to be -- your exposure going be there if you're going to go that route as opposed to Humvee recap and just kind of any other types of opportunities that you might see out there that you haven't already discussed either today or in the past several quarters? So we don't currently participate in the JLTV program.
We are one of the candidates to the extent they would look at a Humvee recapitalization program.
There's a lot of noise going on right now in the building around that program like a lot of programs as to whether it will happen won't happen whether there's JLTV and some Humvee recap activity.
There's been some very recent word out of Pentagon that they may not do the Humvee recap program but this is all sort of new news and obviously something that we'll need to understand and work our way through.
And we have a question from the line of Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a question I know you're not going to give us kind of your backlog status for the year.
And I guess you said that it's going to finish or at least start relatively similar to prior years but maybe a little bit better given the indications you're seeing.
At what point if we assume that things don't play out in the consensus macro way and we do get further hiccups in Europe et cetera at what point will you make a production decision on 2013? I mean is another production cut in your mind maybe is there any probability of another production cut given what you're seeing for 2013? I'm just thinking about how kind of short cycle this business is now and relative to the economy and it just doesn't appear to me that the backlog situation to change very much coming out of the fourth quarter.
Well Steve I think normally just the way the cycle of the business works the '13 decisions is really more in midyear '12 in terms of production rates I mean something we revisit and look all the time.
I mean we're not -- just the nature of the long cycle manufacturing it's not something we're -- we look at it like on specific dates.
I mean it's something that's kind of always a roll forward.
In terms of the probability that you would see a production back off in '13.
I mean as you said if you had a major hiccup another 2008 2009 from a global economic meltdown happen absolutely you would have a reduction and we would act accordingly.
I think that seems fairly unlikely given where we are right now and certainly unlikely given what that level of activity we're seeing with our customers but something we always keep an eye out for.
But the timeline here for '13 is something we would be looking at as we go into really more closer to the midyear for next year when we'll start making that decision.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So I guess it doesn't sound to me like -- it sounds to me like the I guess the inquiries and customer conversations that you're having are at least enough to kind of make you feel good that you could grow or at least hold your production stable even in a kind of now I guess we can call it a 2010 or 2011 economic environment where it's a little bit more confidence based than actual dramatic declines in industrial production and that type of thing.
Is that the right way to kind of think about it? Yes.
I think that's accurate.
I mean if you kind of stay where we are then we would feel like we can make our 2012 numbers that we're forecasting to you and then that would kind of hold steady through '13.
And our next question comes from the line of Ronald Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for Scott maybe on the defense side of the business first.
You mentioned before about things potentially slowing down in the DoD and some things getting pushed out.
Can you give a little more color around how you're trying to reposition the business given that changing backdrop? Well I mean a lot of it is just around the cost structure of the business.
I mean we went through a period of growth through '06 '07 '08 '09.
And as you sit here and you say okay guys things are going to be slower we're seeing a fairly regular trend towards decisions being delayed program starts being delayed we need to size the business of cost structures so a lot of the reductions we're doing.
We're not taking big hits out of a lot of the areas that we think we need to invest to win new programs in the R&amp;D and the bid proposal areas.
Obviously manufacturing-related costs we will scale and have been scaling associated with the volume of those productions.
But when it comes to a lot of the overhead functions support and things like that we really need to size that thing back to being a smaller business and if you win contracts you get new opportunities that's fine.
You can add cost back in to execute them but I think it's just taking a general trend that sure we want to grow yes we have a lot of proposals out there.
And if we win most of them we could see growth.
But we have to I think have a mentality that says this whole industry under the current payout trajectory of the DoD budgets is an industry that's going to shrink.
And so we want to try to get -- make sure we're ahead of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then maybe just switching gears a little bit to the commercial side of the business maybe more specifically Cessna when you think about the bifurcated recovery in the business jet market right now I mean a lot of the really big stuff's kind of comeback already the mids and the lights it seems like they're starting to come back.
Isn't that really tempting to do a bigger airplane to try to get into that piece of the market? Well I mean I think there's 2 things there Ron.
First of all you're right.
I mean just the nature of how the cycle has played out the big metal has come back faster than the light to mid but the decision to go get into doing -- the big cabins where this stuff is really strong is a much bigger aircraft.
It would be a huge investment on our part to go do that which I think we would have to do with the expense of investing in the core of our light to mid-size market.
And it's not like the large market isn't pretty well served.
So I mean you're basically spending a ton of money and to go into a well-served market I just don't think it will be the right use of our capital.
The place where we've been very successful and we can make a lot of investment and be very competitive and be in the right position as the light midsize growth comes back is just a better bet for us.
Now we have a question from Steve Levenson with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think all the good questions were asked.
Can you talk a little bit about the competitive landscape for Cessna as things begin to look up what you see coming into the market and what you see that might be going out of the market? So I think from a competitive landscape obviously what you have new coming into the market which is now been going on for a few years is Embraer.
We've seen them come in with the Phenom 100 and 300.
The announcements and introductions that will come in the future on the 450 and the 500.
Clearly when you look at some of the things that we've announced the M2 which really puts a product out there the issue we really had is a Phenom 100 kind of sat bigger than a Mustang but smaller than our CJ family.
And so by coming in with the M2 we're providing an aircraft in that cabin class with better speed and performance was something that I think will be very very good for us in the marketplace.
Similarly if you looked at where things were going on something like a 450 which was sort of bigger than our XLS a little bigger cabin comfort in there which has been our strong suit in the past.
That's the reason the Latitude exists.
It gives our customers again a product in that category with those kind of performance features that's a better product.
So I think that from a new product standpoint and this kind of refers back with the discussion with Ron investing in those kind of products like the M2 like the Latitude and you're going to hear more things to come really is positioning us with some outstanding products vis-à-vis what the competitors are doing.
In terms of guys going out of the market there's obviously a great deal of uncertainty around where Hawker Beech is going and we'll all hopefully kind of see how that plays.
But I think -- we look at the competitive market that's out there today both the current guys the new guys that have come in and I think that our product strategy is in a great spot right now in terms of making sure that we have very very competitive products that line up very well head-to-head with the overall competitive marketplace.
All right Terry I think we have one more follow-up question in queue and we'll finish up with that.
Okay.
And our follow-up question is from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow ups.
Given what you've done with TFC and the shape of the balance sheet and the cash flow statement are now in and the cash flow projection you just gave us which looks fairly strong when do you think about bringing back share repurchase and/or a larger dividend? I think we've got another year here of being focused on continuing to work on the balance sheet continuing to kind of fund the pension plan.
We obviously with the moves that we made on the convert this past year we did retire some underlying dilution associated with that securities and so kind of we did pay a premium for those securities to in fact remove kind of the dilutive impact of that.
But we're going be largely focused as we look at at least this year and continue to kind of watch how the businesses continue to ramp with continuing to improve the balance sheet and work on the pension plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And just one other one just one other one on the Cessna margins.
I know there's a lot of moving pieces and the volume outlook is relatively uncertain.
But the midpoint of the revenue and the midpoint of the margin imply a year-over-year incremental that is a little bit below 20% and that's comparing against a 2011 that had a huge negative number in the first quarter that I suspect you're not intending to repeat.
And you have new leaders at Cessna that at NBAA went through a dozen slides on all the things they're doing on a productivity and cost standpoint.
So it seemed like that would be low relative to those items.
Is there more upside or downside risk to Cessna margins from where you see it today? That's a different difficult -- yes I have to say that the answer to that question is yes.
Look I think if the volumes come through there could be a little bit of upside to it.
If there's volume softness then there could be some downside to it.
And I think that's kind of why we got it where it is.
No it's a phase in this program or for that business given where the market is that we're uncertain on volumes right.
I mean there's a lot of aircraft to sell.
We're out doing that.
We're having pretty good success with that I would say.
But we're going to be selling airplanes all year to make those numbers happen.
So when you balance all that stuff out that's why we ended up where we ended up.
All right ladies and gentlemen thank you very much.
That concludes our call for today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation and using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Textron First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Doug Wilburne.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Moving now to first quarter results starting with Slide #3.
Revenues in the quarter were $2.9 billion up 15.2% from a year ago.
On a GAAP basis we recorded income from continuing operations of $0.41 per share which compares to earnings per share of $0.10 in the first quarter of 2011.
Moving to cash flow first quarter manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was a $106 million use of cash.
First quarter pension contributions were $144 million.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
I believe our first quarter financial results represented a very solid start to the year reflecting growth in our commercial aircraft and industrial end markets and continued operational execution improvements across all of our businesses.
We also secured a number of key program wins and made some important strategic moves in the quarter that should help provide growth in the long term.
Starting with systems we won 2 important unmanned aerial systems fee-for-service contracts from the U.S.
DoD.
The business model for these fee-for-service programs is different and we normally -- in that we will be investing CapEx in the platforms upfront and in turn we'll be receiving cash over time as we operate the assets to deliver services to our customer.
These 2 contracts were important for a number of reasons.
First the addition of what we expect will be meaningful revenue streams over the next several years at Textron Systems.
And second both these awards are based on our Aerosonde unmanned aircraft which is a smaller air vehicle than our traditional Shadow models.
So we'll now have a second product platform deployed with the U.S.
military which should lead to future opportunities.
Finally these contracts provide an opportunity to demonstrate the attractiveness of fee-for-service UAS arrangements for additional U.S.
and foreign military applications.
Moving over to our Finance segment we continue to have success with our non-captive exit strategy as we liquidated $171 million in non-captive finance receivables during the quarter including $67 million reduction in our Golf portfolio.
This included the disposal of 13 golf course mortgages and one owned golf course at favorable prices.
Our non-captive portfolio now stands at $780 million.
We generated income in the quarter which reflected profitability in both captive and non-captive portfolios.
Shifting to Industrial.
Operating performance was solid with revenues up at each of the business units.
We did see some softness in European auto and tool markets as expected but this was more than offset by strength in North America.
Moving now to Cessna.
We delivered 38 jets in the quarter up from 31 last year and saw a double-digit growth in our aftermarket business.
More importantly we continue to see improvement in customer activity.
New orders were higher than last year's first second and third quarters combined; and our customer prospect list continues to improve.
We had several additional positive developments at Cessna in the quarter including an improvement in the range specification of the new Citation Latitude from 2 000 nautical miles to 2 300 nautical miles the first flight of the new Ten the first flight of the M2 delivery of our 400th Mustang and the announcement of new service capabilities in China.
Expanding our Chinese service capability is part of our accelerated China strategy for which we also announced a very important agreement with AVIC to develop a Chinese general aviation business.
We expect that this agreement will lead to a number of business opportunities.
We expect to form a JV with AVIC and the Chengdu municipal government which will focus initially on final assembly and completions of our Sovereign product line for our Chinese customers and will ultimately evolve to include a number of activities ultimately including the development of a new aircraft.
We're obviously very excited about this opportunity and believe this positions Cessna very well to participate in what will be a significant growth market.
To wrap up with Bell we delivered 10 V-22s 7 H-1s and 30 commercial helicopters in the first quarter versus 9 V-22s 4 H-1s and 15 commercial units in last year's first quarter.
Solid execution on the ramp up in these deliveries allowed us to post another quarter of excellent financial performance.
The commercial demand environment of Bell continues to strengthen and based on order activity underway we still expect to see a significant increase in deliveries this year.
During the quarter we also expanded the addressable market of Bell with an important product announcement at Heli-Expo the 525 Relentless.
This new 16-passenger super-medium helicopter will offer best-in-class capabilities including superior payload range cabin and cargo volumes.
The 525 will have a fully integrated glass cockpit featuring the Garmin 5000 integrated avionics suite a pair of GE CT7 engines and a BAE fly-by-wire flight control system.
The Relentless will be especially well suited for deep water offshore applications in oil and gas and will also serve as a great platform for search and rescue emergency medical services and VIP and corporate missions.
The 525 is a strategic new product for Bell which we will expect will meaningfully contribute for future commercial growth.
To wrap up the quarter we are seeing encouraging signs in our commercial aircraft markets at both Bell and Cessna.
We posted strong results at Bell and Industrial and much improved results at Cessna.
At systems we had 2 important program wins in a challenging defense environment.
Overall I think we're focused on continuing to prove our tactical execution at the same time we're also investing in making strategic moves to grow our business over the long term.
With that I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Manufacturing segment profit in the quarter was $247 million up $80 million from the first quarter of 2011 on a $342 million or a 13.9% increase in manufacturing revenues.
Let's look at how each of the segments contributed starting with Cessna.
At Cessna revenues were up $113 million on a year-over-year basis as a result of a $23 million -- or a 23% increase in jet unit deliveries and an 18% increase in aftermarket revenues.
We narrowed our operating loss by $32 million from the first quarter of 2011 primarily on higher volume.
At Bell revenues were up $245 million on increased V-22 H-1 and commercial deliveries.
Segment profit increased $54 million primarily reflecting higher volumes and the mix of commercial aircraft.
At Textron Systems revenues were down $68 million reflecting lower volumes.
Segment profit decreased $18 million primarily due to the lower volumes.
Industrial revenues increased $52 million reflecting higher volumes partially offset by a $12 million negative impact of foreign exchange.
Segment profits increased $12 million primarily due to the higher volumes.
Moving to Finance.
Segment profit was $12 million for the quarter.
Finance receivables ended the quarter down $267 million from the end of last year.
Credit performance improved during the quarter with non-accruals ending the quarter at $290 million a decrease of $31 million from the prior quarter.
And 60-day delinquencies were $143 million an improvement of $23 million from the fourth quarter.
Moving to corporate items.
Corporate expenses were $47 million up from $39 million last year primarily due to the impact of -- that our higher share price had on compensation expense.
Interest expense was down $3 million from a year ago.
To conclude we remain on track for our full year EPS outlook of $1.80 to $2 a share and cash flow from manufacturing operations before pension contributions of $700 million to $750 million.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Greg we can open the lines for questions.
And our first question will come from Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Can you talk us through the puts and takes on Cessna reconciling the 18% increase in aftermarket with -- which should reduce profits with what we saw and why you're so confident in achieving this for your goals for the year? Well I think Heidi if you look at the conversion rates obviously I think if you go back to the first quarter of last year to the first quarter of this year it's quite a bit higher than the 18% but I do think that if you look at over the course of the year we still think that given what remains kind of a difficult pricing environment and relatively lower volumes you kind of get into a laundry list of things that are moving around.
I still think that over the course of the year that that's about the leverage that we'll expect to see.
So we had a reasonable conversion versus the previous quarter but I think as you look through the year I still feel pretty confident it's going to end up somewhere around that 18-or-so percent.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And one last question.
Can you -- we want to dig into the Bell margins a little bit more.
Talk a little bit about the sustainability of that and what sort of drove that nice margin performance.
Well the Bell margins as you know we've talked about the challenges this year of being around significant increases in commercial deliveries.
Obviously even within that there are some mix issues depending on the models.
So I think for the quarter obviously we saw solid growth in terms of the military side.
Certainly commercial was up from 15 to 30 helicopters but I think we're going to see even more significant unit growth over the course of the year on the commercial and most of those are going to be somewhat dilutive in terms of margin rates.
We also have increased R&amp;D that's going up.
So again I think the numbers that we've guided over the course of the year is certainty attainable.
The guys are doing a nice job in managing the ramp and controlling costs but we are going to see a much heavier mix through the balance of the course of the year on the -- particularly on the wider commercial helicopter volume.
And our next question comes from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly on systems I wondered if you might give us a little bit more color about the decliners there.
You had mentioned your expectations for flat revenues although I recall in the last quarter there was some commentary about conversion of some opportunities on UAVs.
Any color you can provide us there on what you saw the decline in the quarter and what surprised you there? I don't know that anything surprised us a whole lot in the quarter.
Obviously the trend that we saw all through last year and that we still see into this year is just things moving relatively slowly in terms of getting contracts let going through the whole proposal evaluation and award process.
We didn't have any surprises in the quarter where something that we thought was going to happen either didn't happen or volumes were issued at a lower rate and I still think that we're feeling like we're going to guide to a flat year.
Obviously what was important in the quarter as we came into the year needing to get a couple of very important wins on the UAS business in particular and we won both of those.
Now those don't generate a lot of revenue in 2012 so we said we'll spend most of the rest of the year building out the systems and getting those deployed per specific task orders with both the Navy and the Marines and SOCOM but those things will all be out there.
And they've got between 3 and 5 years of pretty solid revenue generation beyond that.
So I think those were important wins again not so much they had a lot of impact or were forecast to have a lot of impact in 2012 but very important for us in the '13 to 'l5-or-so time frame.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one quick follow-up for Frank.
The corporate expense you noted the step-up due to the higher stock price and relative to the amount I think it was $145 million you talked about on the last call for corporate expense for the year.
How much should we be assuming that that steps up as a result of this? Yes it probably steps up about $10 million if the share price stays in and around these levels.
And our next question is from Jason Gursky with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about this DoD contract structure that you talked about on the UAS.
Is that something unique? And how did this come about? Well I think this is a trend that you're going to see more of in this sort of a fee-for-service so particularly these UAV vehicles how much ISR is required and where is it required both by in this case the Navy and Marine Corps is one program and SOCOM being the other program where instead of having the military tie up a certain number of systems they're looking for the industry to provide those systems and actually own and operate those systems and be able to deploy as required.
So I think it's trying to create -- at least it's a tool they're looking at and a technique they're looking at I think to create a more dynamic more capital efficient way of utilizing these kinds of assets.
So instead of tying it up within the 4 structure in one particular location by having those resources and that capital owned by the industry they can simply issue task orders and deploy them as required in a much more capital efficient structure.
I think that's the intent.
And of course the difference for us is I think ultimately from a profitability standpoint we'll do quite well on this but it does require that we have that capital because then we're the ones that can turn around and respond to what their needs are and allocate those same resources in different locations at different times over a period of 3 to 5 years.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay that's helpful.
And then Frank you've mentioned that the guidance holistically stays in place.
I'm wondering given the results of this quarter whether you wouldn't mind walking through the segment level guidance and maybe give us some puts and takes on what you're now expecting for the rest of the year.
Yes well we're really the same in terms of that segment level guidance as we've -- there are puts and takes in and around the ranges but generally within those ranges we're still fine with that.
The one change to that being on the Finance segment given the first quarter results we had suggested Finance to be kind of breakeven-ish.
We think that the captive business will be profitable as we had indicated in our outlook.
We think that non-captive given the performance we're seeing right now probably is more around breakeven.
So overall we think Finance will be positive for the year versus breakeven but otherwise kind of we're in the same ranges on the segments.
And then Jason just to add to that I think that when you think of the holistic picture there Frank mentioned that corporate expense is going to be up a bit we're looking at a higher share count given the share price as well.
So all in it still comes out into the same range as we're sitting here today.
Our next question comes from David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Back to the margin question at Cessna you compared it to Q1 of last year.
But if you look at it compared to Q2 of last year where deliveries were pretty similar overall but your mix was actually a little bit better this year.
Last -- in Q2 last year you were able to generate a profit.
Could you maybe just compare this quarter the moving pieces this quarter versus Q2 of last year where the deliveries were pretty similar? Yes I think if you looked at the comparison and we've obviously done that David just to understand sort of the moving parts here I mean you're right.
We had a few fewer Mustangs than we had back in that quarter.
There are some other mix issues pushing around there in terms of just the mix of the different models of aircraft that was -- that worked against us a little bit.
But look there's also some pricing that is still difficult in the marketplace out there.
I think ultimately we got to push to get that better but it has not been favorable over the past year so we took a bit of a hit on pricing.
And I think really one of the bigger issues here is at the volumes that we're running and the cost structure we have the numbers are such that things that would normally be sort of lost in the noise around LIFO adjustments and accrual for some severances in our Citation you get down to sort of a laundry list of numbers that are frankly all relatively small numbers but when you're talking about small numbers of absolute margin they make a difference.
So I guess the bottom line is a little bit of unfavorable mix in the numbers of jet deliveries continued pricing pressure and a bit of one-timers in there that normally I don't think would be something that would move the needle very much that in this environment is making a difference.
Research Division</strong> So R&amp;D wasn't a major factor? It wasn't a huge factor.
I mean again you get into this saying well look our R&amp;D absolute spending can go up but we also had some stuff we wrote off in the quarter which went back to 2011.
So at least in that kind of a causal if you look between those 2 quarters not a major factor.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as a follow-up moving to Bell on the commercial side 429 deliveries were a lot lower than where I thought they would come in.
Talk about what's going on there and have you gotten the certification for the 500-mile-range increase in the U.S.
yet? So 429 there's no change in terms of our expectation in 429 deliveries this year.
There's a bit of timing in there just because of where they're laying in the year so you're right there was only a couple in the quarter but there's no fundamental change in what we're expecting in terms of 429.
That's part of the issue that's a pressure for us obviously in the next 3 quarters is we'll see significant increases in things like the 429 models.
The regulation issue that's 500 pounds of capacity which has gotten through and been approved by the Canadians.
It is in with the FAA right now.
I feel pretty good about it and I think it's something that will happen in the fairly near term And our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So kind of moving back to Cessna could you tell us where is the level of any abnormal preowned losses or forfeiture gains and maybe give us some color -- the trend in demand and pricing as we went through the quarter.
I mean do we enter the second quarter with any appreciable change or is it kind of really the same throughout the quarter? I think it's about the same throughout the quarter Cai in terms of pricing environment.
In terms of the used market I would say it continues for the most part to be pretty stable.
I mean we're talking about fairly small numbers in terms of things like write-downs and forfeiture deposits.
These numbers have become sort of a couple million here fairly inconsequential numbers so fairly significant.
I would say continued stability and when you look at our used available for sale of our kind of in-production models they're getting lower and lower right? They're down in the 5% 6% 7% of the fleet kind of numbers.
So that piece of the market in terms of competition for new orders which is part of what makes pricing tough when you've got relatively new aircraft out there does continue to get smaller but it's not gone.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to the first question the preowned losses or forfeiture gains were they much of a factor? They are low -- very low single digits and largely offset each other.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one of your competitors Hawker has asked for -- has a forbearance agreement with its lenders currently.
If Hawker were to go into bankruptcy would you be interested in pursuing any or all of that operation? I guess Cai I would say that we keep an eye on that like most people and there are certainly some assets there that we think would be very interesting.
Your next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So just firstly on Cessna I mean it sounded like from the volume outlook at least you are more positive in terms of order trends what you've seen in Q1.
If you could talk a little bit about maybe anything on by region what you're seeing and then also the effect that that might have had on your sort of updated assumptions for things like R&amp;D and CapEx.
I mean I think for overall Textron you talked 3 months ago about R&amp;D up $110 million CapEx up about -- to about $450 million.
Have you sort of changed any of those outlooks given what's happening with demand in Cessna and in Bell commercial? No.
I think Julian everything's very consistent with our plan.
Obviously the new product programs at Cessna driven large part right now with the M2 and the Ten are in-flight test programs.
The Latitude obviously is in its early stages of detailed design.
The 525 as we announced is also a program now that's in its early stages of detail design.
So the CapEx associated with those programs again primarily around tooling which is really what's driving most of our CapEx budget there and the R&amp;D numbers that we kind of guided to are all completely within what we expect them to be for the year.
So there is no change.
And again in terms of the market I think if you look at what's going on in the orders and level of customer activity at Cessna it's where we expected it to be.
So I still feel pretty confident about what we are thinking in terms of the total volume of deliveries for the year.
And the same is true with Bell.
The market's been strong the backlog is there the level of activity and order rate is where we expected it so that we should ultimately have the commercial deliveries fall in line with our guidance.
Yes I'd just add the only thing that -- on the CapEx side that puts a little pressure on our CapEx number to the upside are these wins at systems.
And depending on the volume ultimately of the task orders that are let the amount of equipment that we would look to field this year.
But we don't think that that's a big number but that kind of does have some impact on the CapEx number.
Right.
The only differentiator there is those are revenue-generating numbers as opposed to what we traditionally think of as CapEx right which is around the tooling and our infrastructure.
Those are assets that would be required to go perform those contracts.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then just a quick follow-up on systems.
I mean obviously you had -- in Q4 you had a charge around severance relating to the cost base and so on.
You've had a decent sort of revenue drop here but it sounds like the full year outlook is still flattish.
How do you feel about the cost base in systems when you're looking out this year or thereafter? I mean do you think you've done enough on the costs for the time being given that Q1 was it sounds like as you expected? Yes I think again it's pretty consistent with our expectations.
When we announced the restructuring and we looked at the costs and in particular for the most part employees affected by that where we thought we needed resources and where we thought we needed to do restructuring given the current environment really remains unchanged.
I mean the reality is for some of these programs particularly for these fee-for-service where we actually will be adding resources to go execute those programs.
But those are different people in a different skill set than those who've been affected by the restructuring.
So again Julian I think pretty consistent with what our expectations were going into the year.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
At Bell can you tell us what the commercial aftermarket and military aftermarket growth rates were? Yes.
We did see some growth there that -- those are not numbers that kind of we break out separately but we are seeing growth in those areas -- and on the commercial side it's at rates that are lower than what we've seen at Cessna but we are seeing growth.
Still double-digit numbers or below that? We don't kind of -- we don't break those numbers out separately.
Okay.
And then one Scott maybe if you could give a little more color on the JV with AVIC.
I mean you were talking about potentially a larger cabin jet.
I mean is this something in the Columbus category or even bigger and if you could give some specifics about timing and development.
Well the timing George -- as you know the joint venture kind of goes through a few phases here.
We started out by putting a completion center capability in Chengdu so that we can deliver basically a green aircraft out of Wichita and do all of our customizations interior completions paint finish and all that for delivery into China out of our Chengdu operation.
Ultimately we'll do some additional manufacturing work in the location and greater levels of assembly around the Sovereign and ultimately longer term around the Latitude.
The new development program which I think really ultimately will be sort of a highlight of this whole activity is one where we really start the definition and kind of market research of what's the right product for the market as part of the formation of the JV.
So that's usually a year or 2 activity when we look at most of our aircraft to really decide what are the right specifications how do you really do the concept work and define the right product.
Certainly our expectation is that this is going to be a larger longer-range aircraft than anything else that's in our portfolio and that's why this is something that makes an awful lot of sense both for us and for AVIC to invest in.
There is no comparative analysis I would say against something like a Columbus -- it's not really working from the Columbus baseline.
It's really working from what's the right thing given this timing and our current position in the market and frankly other things we've done in our portfolio.
So I think any specific discussions or disclosures of technical specifications is probably a couple years downstream.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Scott I was wondering if you could comment on the market share situation to follow up from Cai's question whether the issues at Hawker have had any impact on your market share and also with regard to your comment on pricing.
Well I think the -- you've had historically 4 guys really working pretty hard at most of that market 5 if you include some of the bits of Gulfstream and even Dassault to some degree at this point.
But I think if you look at the market right now and I'm sure you'll see this as it comes out through the industry data is that no doubt you're going to see loss of share in the jet business at Hawker Beechcraft and I think that that share is sort of dispersing itself between Cessna and Embraer and Learjet.
I think understandably it's pretty hard to have a serious discussion with the customer about buying a $10 million $15 million $20 million asset if there's uncertainty about who's going to be there to support that aircraft.
I mean I don't think this is a secret right? I mean guys that are buying aircraft are -- buying the aircraft is just the beginning right? I mean these are very long-life assets and the support and have the manufacturer behind it is an important part of a purchase decision.
And I think it's probably giving them a fair bit of difficulty right now given their financial situation.
So I can't tell you or wouldn't guess at this particular point where that share is going but I would suspect that it's moving amongst the other few big OEMs in those markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on the pricing issue.
I was wondering what your assumptions are for pricing at Cessna through the rest of this year.
Are you assuming they stay pretty flat or that they improve? I think it's going to -- it will vary probably a little bit from model to model and region to region.
But we would like to think that as we bring new orders in place at this stage of the game that we're going to try to figure out how to drive pricing back up but that's going to be a difficult fight on a deal-to-deal basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research.
Just a couple follow-up a lot of ground covered already.
First just back to the I believe the first question that Heidi asked.
Scott I think she was talking about aftermarket but it sounded like you were kind of talking about contribution margins a little bit.
Can you just clarify your comments on what to expect for contribution margins on Cessna? Were you trying to get at that? Yes I think if you look at -- well I mean we're not going to -- I don't think we've ever talked about contribution margins on aftermarket or whatever I guess maybe I misunderstood it.
I think if you look at our guidance for the year at Cessna you get incremental margins on the additional volume year-over-year of around 18-or-so percent.
Now in the first quarter those incremental margins were considerably higher than that versus the first quarter of 2011.
But I don't think that the incremental margins that we saw year-over-year in the first quarter are going to sustain that high.
I think we ultimately will be around where we guided which is about an 18% incremental margin on that additional volume.
Okay.
I just wanted to clarify that because that was the same number as the aftermarket growth and it just sounded like there was some apples and oranges in that.
And it could be Jeff I'm sorry about that.
No problem.
And Frank can you just give us a little more color on kind of how to think about cash flow? You have this big use and other assets and liabilities in the quarter and some working capital pressure beyond that.
What's going on there? And how does that play over the balance of the year? Yes.
There's not anything unusual in the first quarter.
First quarter is always a significantly negative cash quarter for us.
There was some inventory build there's receivables build there was some timing and -- in terms of payments from customers and things like that particularly on the military side that can tend to be lumpy.
So it was negative.
It was a little worse than the prior year.
If you go back 2 years it was kind of pretty much in line with what we did in the 2010 first quarter and consistent with generally how we had planned the thing.
And again we believe for the year we'll be in the $700 million $750 million cash flow range just as we had talked about in our guidance.
And then just on Cessna orders Scott I think you said Q1 was better than the first 3 quarters of last year but maybe that's a little bit of kind of the small numbers on small numbers we've been kind of talking about.
But can you give us some sense on where book-to-bill was and how you expect book-to-bill to play out into the second quarter? Well I think you're right.
I mean it's growth over a small number but it is growth.
So we feel pretty good about that.
I think on a book-to-bill basis you're at like 0.75 right if you looked at just the -- break out the first quarter numbers.
But again I think that what we've guided our expectation in terms of what we saw in the order flow in the first quarter what the customer prospect looks like that we still feel pretty confident that we're going to see the kind of order flow through the course of the year that we need to get to the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Yes I was hoping to go back to the China JV for a second.
And Scott if you could talk about some of the coproduction platforms that you would think about moving over there and whether -- and how much that would help demand towards the end of this year if not into 2013.
I think by the time the -- we're doing the finalization right now kind of the Ts and Cs of getting the joint venture itself formed.
We do have to go through the Chinese business license process which can take a number of months.
So we're trying to work towards a target where all these things will be lined up and ready to go at the end of the year.
Obviously we're already working on putting together the requirements in terms of what we have to do for a facility from a completion center capability in Chengdu so that as soon as we get all the licenses in place we're ready to get all that stuff rolling and capitalize the business but I don't think you're going to see any kind of impact really in 2012.
I think maybe till late 2013 you'll start to see some flow in local deliveries.
Now we already have Chinese deliveries and I will continue to have Chinese deliveries anyway but at a relatively small number through '12 and '13.
But I think this really is something that will start to have an impact in '13 and become more material in '14 and on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you look into '13 Embraer coming out with the Legacy 500 what kind of demand impact do you think that will -- or erosion potential impact that will have on your higher end of your line up Sovereign in particular? That's kind of a difficult question to answer right now.
I mean obviously there's things that we have going on.
Latitude is a good example where you look at customers that are looking for the larger cabin and that really addresses more specifically the 450 and I think gives us a much better aircraft much better performance in that space and obviously there's some other things that we have going on that would I think address well what will happen in the space that represents the 500 which is obviously a bigger considerably larger aircraft than a Sovereign at a considerably higher price point than Sovereign.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Levenson from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On Textron Systems you talked about the fee-for-service business for the UAS.
And can you discuss what the margins are relative to an outright sale and where you think the additional opportunities might come from? Well I think the -- you wouldn't expect in a government environment to be able to negotiate a very different profit margin on what's expected versus what you would do if you were just selling these assets.
I would say that the upside to this thing is that if the utilization ends up being higher and we are good at utilizing the capital behind these things and the demand is greater that that represents upside to us.
So I think on an apples-to-apples basis you would expect pretty similar levels of profitability for the base case.
And if we're able to more effectively use -- utilize the capital and there's a demand that allows us to do that that I would say we would have upside.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other opportunities are...
Just higher-level utilization additional task orders.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Not necessarily from other customers though? It can also be other customers right? I mean these assets are spoken for on sort of a task-order basis and so it certainly can give us the opportunity again depending on what the demand is on these particular contracts can you also utilize those assets on other contracts over time which could be with other customers as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And again I'm sorry domestics such as customs and border patrol or more likely a European customer for example.
All of the above.
I think this is a -- we're sort of in an interesting point right now.
This is sort of the beginning of this kind of a concept right and so I guess that's why I say when I think it could lead other opportunities I think about all those kinds of applications.
There's stuff within sort of civil applications like border patrols monitoring of national or emergency areas or disaster areas.
There's a lot foreign military applications so I mean obviously we'll be taking this model and trying to utilize it on a pretty broad range of applications.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I've just got a couple of questions for you maybe just a quick accounting one.
When you look at Textron Financial what provisions were taken during the quarter? $4 million Ron.
Research Division</strong> Okay $4 million.
Okay that's great.
And then kind of switching gears to the Chinese JV how do you think about protecting intellectual property when you go into something like that? Well I think it's pretty easy for us Ron.
I mean people talk a lot about intellectual property protection and I think if you're a consumer goods kind of guy you probably rightfully should worry about that a lot.
On the other hand I think as you get into some more sophisticated technology there are sort of national protections.
I think when you look at China in particular I think it bears some understanding.
Chinese are also very brand conscious right? So if you look at -- I think what we're doing is much more akin to what's happened in the automotive market than a lot of other industries where the Western companies that went in and set up joint ventures with the government and did local manufacturing and really had a footprint in the country are the ones that not only enjoyed the growth of that market and helped make the market but are still the brands and the products that dominate that market today.
You go to China whether it's Shanghai Beijing or the smaller cities it's VWs and Audis and Buicks.
I mean these are the guys that were first movers and they still have very powerful brand presence.
People make a lot about sort of the knockoff car companies the reality is they haven't done all that well.
You don't see very many of those.
I think when you look at our business in the aviation space it's even further sort of down that continuum if you will.
And that if you're in the country and you're finishing your final assembly on Sovereigns you're not going to see a company down the street all of a sudden and pop out with a Sovereign lookalike.
You can't -- aviation is a global industry.
You have to have certifications you have to have the FAA and the CAC.
So if anybody is going to try to take our intellectual property and do a knockoff of our products that's going to be a very very very public thing.
You're not going to all of a sudden see these things on the market for sale.
It's years and years of development a very very difficult certification process.
So I frankly think that people are in our case in our industry our kind of product our -- this is not an issue to worry about.
And frankly I think you're much much better off being in the market and participating in the market than thinking you can avoid that market and somehow not worry about IT by taking that strategy.
I mean you're more susceptible to having intellectual property issues if you're not there and participating in the market.
Research Division</strong> Interesting.
I guess what the counterargument would be is what happened to some of the rail companies over there correct? I'm sorry to who? Research Division</strong> Like Siemens and some of the other companies when they were doing high-speed rail.
Yes and I've heard of some of that but again I think when you think about all the certification requirements and again people buy aircraft and fly them around the world.
There's not a local market or a specific local project it really has to be a global product.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then maybe just one last question for one of you guys there's been a lot of discussion on the call both from you guys and from other analysts about pricing.
Doesn't it imply I mean if pricing is still soft that there's just too much supply on the market that either on the used end or on the new end that there's just too much supply and that's why we're not seeing pricing get better? That really the only way we'll see pricing get better is we just need less supply somehow.
Well I -- there's absolutely no question there's a supply and demand issue going on here and part of that supply includes those used aircraft.
And so I think if you look at sort of competition in the marketplace that's exactly the dynamic that you have going on.
And so everybody -- I don't think anybody wants to short the market right as things start to come back so everybody is doing what we're doing you're trying to understand what -- where you think the market's going and you're trying to build to a forecast because you can't do it month to month you've got a fairly long-lead assets here.
But I think what we -- we would love pricing to get better tomorrow I would love pricing to be better yesterday but I think we are where we are in the cycle.
I think the used as it starts to wind down in particularly on the stuff that's still in production kind of aircraft will help get that supply demand back into balance but you still have at least 3 really 4 competitors out there that are all trying to make sure that they keep their position in the market.
So as demand comes back and it is getting stronger you'll start to see that switch just like it has in -- every time you go through these cycles.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Tusa from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Have any M2 or Latitude orders in the quarter? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Any numbers? No.
But Steve I just -- just to put some color they're not overwhelming numbers okay? I mean we're in a position here still in the market where people aren't -- you don't see lots of people lining up that want to place orders for aircraft that aren't going to deliver until 2015 okay? So yes there are some there are certainly people that want to be sort of first in line for the aircraft and love the airplane and want to do that.
Obviously we have more entry-level buyers and some current Mustang guys who are already thinking about their step-up and then looking at an M2 and saying "That's where I want to go." Some of them have gotten to the point where they're putting money down and saying "Yes I want one of the first units." But there's not a panic yet in the market of people saying "Geez if I don't put an order in here real quick I won't be able to get an airplane." Research Division</strong> Right right.
And then you guys aren't going to give kind of your sold-out position for next year? No.
That we're definitely not going to do.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Since there are no questions on Industrial just I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about that.
Just given the growth you've seen in the first quarter if you're going to have flattish sales is there any part of that that you're expecting or worried about weakening as we go through the year? The part I still worry the most about is around the automotive build.
I think the first quarter is always strong in the automotive industry I mean just the way that cycle tends to work and it was pretty strong.
It was a little softer in Europe which we expected but it was also considerably stronger in North America actually even a little bit stronger than we would have expected.
Asia was stronger but not as strong probably as we would have liked.
So I would say in terms of how the quarter went we're happy with what we saw in terms of volume and the health in the industry.
But I'd say we remain still a little concerned about what's going on in the -- what will happen over the course of the year particularly in the European automotive market.
And we have a significant share over there right? It's about 40% of our automotive business.
Research Division</strong> And then just on that topic is Kautex do they use this nylon that seems was in the papers today about shortages in their fuel systems? And how does that play out? Well so they do.
All of the major suppliers of full-molded tanks use the I think it was PA12 was what you're referring to.
So there was an explosion at a plant in Germany that manufacturers that material system.
So it's too early to say exactly what's going to happen.
I mean it certainly has the potential to have an impact.
They represent a significant source of supply for that particular material so there's -- all I can tell you is there's active discussions underway with our customers about material systems alternate material systems sort of how to manage and sort of bridge our way through that given what has been sort of a key supplier that has had a real problem.
And that's not unique to us by the way.
I mean that's material that feeds into everybody that makes this kind of a tank.
Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss from UBS.
Research Division</strong> As a follow-up I think it's Cessna I don't think you've talked about regionally.
Could you comment Scott specifically on North America what you're seeing? And is North America if you look specifically at the North America book-to-bill is that above kind of the Cessna average? So I'm sorry I haven't done a book-to-bill on a per region basis but I would say that the U.S.
continues to be healthy but I would say as we've gone into the year we've seen some strengthening internationally as well.
So I mean we're looking at order book that comes about I mean I think over the course of the year and what we certainly see indicative in the first quarter it's going to look more like a 60% international kind of a number as opposed to last year which was more like a 30% and 70% U.S.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Yes just following up on David's question Scott how about demand-wise you're seeing more for your bigger planes versus the smaller ones? George the mix continues to be in terms of the order rates favorable.
So we're seeing sort of stronger demand in the CJ4 and up than say the Mustangs.
And again that's kind of consistent with what we saw in the latter part of last year and what our forecast is based around for this year.
And then did you give or will you give how much R&amp;D change from last year at Cessna? Not on a by-business basis George.
But in terms of how you guys think about it the only thing I would say is that we've talked increased dollars still putting some pressure probably this year around percent of sales but our expectation is that even though we'll continue to increase the dollars going forward that we would start to lose that headwind in terms of percent of sales on R&amp;D.
It appears now that we've exhausted all the questions and follow-ups.
So thank you ladies and gentlemen for joining us and we'll talk with you soon.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:00 a.m.
Eastern Time today through July 18.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at anytime by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 225825.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Textron's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Doug Wilburne.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Tricia and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Moving now to second quarter results starting with Slide #3.
Revenues in the quarter were $3 billion up 10.7% from a year ago.
Our income from continuing operations was $0.58 per share which compares to earnings per share of $0.29 in the second quarter of 2011.
Moving to cash flow second quarter manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was $121 million and from that we contributed $21 million to our pension plans.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
Our second quarter performance reflects continued growth in our commercial aircraft and industrial markets and improved operating execution across our businesses.
We also continue to secure a number of key program wins and made strategic product announcements in the quarter that should further contribute to growth long term.
Starting with Textron Systems our Marine &amp; Land Systems business won the Canadian Tactical Armoured Patrol Vehicle program.
This contract calls for delivery of 500 vehicles beginning in 2014 with an option for 100 more as well as an initial 5-year support contract.
This was an important win as it extends our production of armored vehicles through at least 2015.
This win also establishes a new family of our proven Mine Resistant vehicles and we can now market to other customers around the world.
Our TMLS business also won the Navy Ship-to-Shore Connector competition which starts with detail design and construction of a test and training craft to be completed by early 2017.
The contract also provides options for deliveries of up to 8 initial production units through 2020.
So the total value of this contract could amount to $570 million over the remainder of the decade with even more significant opportunity when the program enters full rate production.
And finally at our Unmanned Aircraft Systems business we recently received a $358 million award for engineering support and upgrades to retrofit 45 Shadow Systems with deliveries of these units beginning in late 2013.
So despite a difficult DoD environment over the past several months we've won several significant new programs that help solidify the long-term outlook and systems.
Moving to our Finance segment we had another successful quarter of liquidations as we reduced noncap to financial receivables by another $160 million including a $70 million reduction in our Golf Mortgage portfolio representing 19 loans.
Our noncap to finance receivable portfolio now stands at $619 million.
Shifting to our industrial business operating performance was solid with revenues up 5%.
Volumes in our Industrial businesses reflect strength in the North American and Asian auto markets offsetting European softness.
Moving over to Cessna we delivered 49 jets in the quarter up from last year's 38 reflecting modest recovery and our success in the current market.
We also had a number of strategic developments over the past several months at Cessna.
First we announced our new long-range super midsize Longitude business jet during the eBay show in Geneva.
With a 4 000-nautical mile range and a speed of Mach .86 the Longitude will be designed to make nonstop flight between city pairs like New York and Paris; London to Dubai; or Beijing Moscow.
At a price of just under $26 million we believe the Longitude will be the best valued 4 000-nautical miles super midsized business jet available in the world.
We also continue to make good progress during the quarter with flight testing on our new Citation M2 and Citation Ten.
Finally our newly announced Latitude was selected by NetJets to become part of their fractional fleet offering which should add significantly to the long-term demand for this aircraft.
And to wrap up with Bell on the military side we delivered 9 V-22s and 6 H-1s versus 9 22s and 8 H-1s in last year's second quarter.
We saw a significant increase in our commercial business with 47 units delivered in the second quarter up to 25 from last year's 22 deliveries.
This growth reflects the overall strength in global helicopter markets as well as the ramp-up in our 429 program and the success of our new 407GX.
To wrap up the quarter overall manufacturing revenues were up 10% with manufacturing net margins improving 120 basis points.
We believe this validates the investments we've been making over the past couple of years in new product development our sales capabilities and manufacturing productivity.
With that I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Manufacturing segment profit in the quarter was $288 million up $59 million from the second quarter of 2011 on a $269 million increase in manufacturing revenue.
Let's look at how each of the segments contributed starting with Cessna.
Revenues at Cessna were up $111 million on a year-over-year basis reflecting higher jet deliveries.
Segment profit was up $30 million primarily due to the higher volume.
Excel revenues were up $184 million primarily due to higher commercial helicopter volume.
Segment profit increased $32 million reflecting the higher volume in a favorable mix in our commercial business.
At Textron Systems revenues were down $63 million primarily due to lower volumes in our weapons and sensors and land and marine businesses.
Segment profit decreased $9 million reflecting the lower volumes and deliveries on lower-margin contracts.
Industrial revenues increased $37 million reflecting higher volumes across most of the businesses partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange.
Segment profit increased $6 million primarily due to higher volume.
Moving to finance total finance receivables ended the quarter down $256 million from the prior quarter.
Nonaccruals ended the quarter at $252 million a decrease of $38 million from the prior quarter and 60-day plus delinquencies were $169 million up $26 million from the first quarter primarily reflecting a few aircraft accounts.
Moving to corporate items.
Corporate expenses were $20 million down significantly from the first quarter primarily the result of lower propelling share price which reduced compensation-related expenses.
Interest expense was $35 million even with the first quarter.
Our average share count during the quarter was 295.5 million shares which was 19.7 million shares lower than last year's second quarter primarily reflecting the benefit of having repurchased a large portion of the company's outstanding convertible notes.
To conclude we are maintaining our full year EPS guidance of $1.80 to $2 a share with cash flow from manufacturing operations before pension contributions of $700 million to $750 million.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
So Tricia we can open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will go to the line of Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you walk us through the strong improvements we're seeing in this quarter in Cessna? I think -- I can't recollect precisely but I think Scott Ernest has now been there for 1 year.
Can you tell us what has been changing with him and his team that's been most effective in these results? You're right.
Scott's been in place for just over 1 year.
And I think some of the changes that he's made in establishing real business segments or P&amp;Ls within the jets and propeller military and service sector and the teams the people we put into those leadership jobs are doing a great job on focusing both on where we're going in the future product development plans kind of marketing strategy but also sort of a stronger focus on their P&amp;L and understanding their costs understanding conversion costs and prior costs warranty really looking at the products a little more holistically along each one of those product lines.
And I think the focus on that and trying to draw profitability back in the business is something that they're doing very well.
And I think that's what we're seeing in the results.
Research Division</strong> Didn't we expect then Scott in the second half a steady climb in profits then as he gains and he and his team gain greater traction? Well I think that you're going to see obviously the continued focus on the cost but I do think we'll start to see a little more pressure on R&amp;D spending as we continue to ramp up all the exciting stuff that we've announced.
We actually have to go spend the money to make those things happen.
And there's a couple of other headwinds.
But there's going to be things that push back and forth through the quarter.
But I would say I don't think there's any change in their focus around cost and that will continue to support our margins.
But we are going to have some headwinds around some of our R&amp;D spending.
Research Division</strong> And last question obviously given the conservatism in your guidance you're baking in and implying deceleration in the back half of the year.
Can you walk us through some of the puts and takes that kind of drives that conclusion? Heidi I mean obviously coming through the first half of the year we feel pretty good about where we are relative to how we expected the year to progress.
But I have to say that we still look at the back half of the year in terms of what's going on with economies around the world in a lot of uncertainty.
I have to factor in that that will cause concern with a lot of our customers as well.
And so we still have as we have had now for the last few years an awful lot of activity particularly at Cessna which requires sales orders that then convert to sales in a relatively short period of time.
And I think there's enough uncertainty out there in the economy in the markets around the world that it's best to still anticipate it's going to be a tough back half.
Our next question is from the line of Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Scott I was wondering if you could give us your views on revenues for the full year and whether there's been any changes in the allocation by division? No there really isn't Robert.
I think things are really -- there's no reason to change the kind of guide that we've given you guys the beginning of the year around each one of the businesses.
Bell obviously I think is on track.
Cessna is certainly on track.
Systems as we sit here today is probably a little behind.
We guided the revenue around that business to be flattish for the year.
We're a little behind where we were obviously at this time 1 year ago.
I think that's reflective of just the general slowdown of getting things through the DoD process.
But obviously with some of the wins that we've had here in the past few months and some FMS activities I think we have reasonable line of sight to expect the revenue to catch up on that business and finish the year about flattish as we originally guided.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as a follow-up on Cessna you've given us the backlog number for the quarter.
I was wondering if you could give us an idea of maybe how orders and cancellations might have panned out this quarter.
Well there were some -- certainly still some cancellations in the quarter.
I would say gross orders were pretty good.
We still have some cancellations and if you will just -- frequent of why we could still see cancellations at this point.
And frankly it's still driven by some orders that were in the backlog that date all the way back to sort of the 2007 MBAAs and CJ4 launches.
And as you know the backlog was way out for that model at that time and so as deposits come due there still are some that are dropping out of that area.
So I would say principally when you look at cancellations that's what's driving it.
The rest of the cancellation numbers are sort of immaterial.
And our next question is from the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Just follow-up on that Scott.
Was the gross book-to-bill at 1 or above 1 in the quarter then? I think if you look at gross it was just barely above 1.
Okay.
And what happened to the aftermarket at Cessna? I mean how much did that grow in the quarter? The aftermarket was up sort of in mid-single digits.
On a comparable basis it wasn't as strong as we've been seeing but we had a very strong comp from the second quarter of '11 because a lot of fleet refurbishment activity was going on.
But it was still up a healthy healthy mid-single digits.
And you had very strong incremental margins.
I mean is that just a volume or did the large number of XLS deliveries help that? And why shouldn't we expect that incremental to continue if you adjusted for the higher R&amp;D? Well I think if you look -- I mean for sure gross margins continue to be good.
I don't see a change in that going forward.
But as I said we are going to see more R&amp;D coming into this thing and we're still at a point here where the numbers are relatively small.
And plus or minuses whether it's inventory adjustments that will have an influence.
It's bigger than we would like just because the number's relatively small at this point.
So at this stage of the game I mean I certainly feel good about what the guys delivered on the quarter.
We'll continue to drive hard but at this point I would say I don't see a reason to guide outside of the margin range that we gave you for the total year.
And George the comps going forward at Cessna are going to be a little tougher too.
As Heidi pointed out the new management team got underway a little over 1 year ago and so some of that immediate impact started to flow in the third fourth quarters of last year.
And our next question is from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick clarification questions.
First on TFC and the outlook for the rest of the year and moving into 2013.
Obviously we've had some better-than-expected performance relative to your initial guidance of breakeven for the year.
Can you just give us some updated thoughts on -- yes look not just for this year but as we kind of move into next year given what you know today? Well I think that most of what we're seeing that has been upside to what we would have guided Jason has to do with our successful liquidation in the Golf Mortgage portfolio and the fact that we've been able to liquidate those notes at better than where we mark them when we took the mark last year.
And so obviously those come through as a gain.
Now eventually obviously that's going to stop.
I mean we've had 2 good quarters of those liquidations.
I think we'll continue to see good liquidations of that through the balance of the year but obviously as we start to think about 2013 we have a better sense of how those are liquidating now.
So when we get around to kind of guiding you toward 2013 we'll consider that but that is going to end right? I mean those receivables are dropping fairly quickly which is good news.
But as you look out I'm going from -- starting the year with 381 we're already down to 244.
These things are going to run through the book.
I hope we'll continue to run through the book pretty quickly.
I would hope that we will continue to see some positive numbers come out of that as we liquidate them better than their mark but that will end.
Research Division</strong> And as far as the timing on the ending do you have a sense of that? Is it in calendar '13 or we see that this year? Well I mean our -- it's hard to tell right? But our pace right now has been sort of in that $60 million $70 million over the last couple of quarters.
So even if we continue that kind of run rate then you're going to be -- the portfolio we have what it was as we get to the end of the year which means it'll...
We'll still in number -- in '13.
We still expect obviously liquidation activities in '13.
As Scott said it's going to depend on the pace of liquidations for the second half of this year and where those liquidations take place relative to where we have at least the Golf portion marked and then we have other liquidations coming out of other pieces of the portfolio.
It will continue.
I guess what we're saying Jason is you can't assume that level on a go-forward basis.
I mean that's not something we can bake into the TFC model on a go-forward basis because it is really driven by a particular asset class and how that's liquidating.
And as you know that will come to completion as we finish that liquidation.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Just 2 quick follow-ups then.
On the Cessna cancellations can you give us a sense of how much that might have contributed to operating profit during the quarter? And then Scott can you just give us an update on V-22 international sales? On the former Jason the cancellation foreclosure numbers is de minimis.
I mean it's $1 million or something.
There was not an impact on the quarter in terms of the margin rates really.
In terms of V-22 on foreign military sales opportunities we just came out of Farnborough.
I would say we had a great show.
The Marine Corps had 4 V-22s.
Over at the show they were providing demonstration rides for a lot of Foreign Military customers.
It was a packed few days.
They were terrific in terms of supporting us.
We had a lot of folks flying the aircraft a lot of fabulous feedback.
I would say we are in serious discussions with several different countries around the V-22 sales opportunity and we remain pretty bullish that several of those deals are going to close.
We'd obviously would love to see one happen this year.
I think there's a possibility for that to happen.
Remember we're really trying to look at production slot availability out in that 2015 time frame as you start the second multiyear.
So I would say right now there is not a complete signed contract on any of those but there are several there and -- that I think are real opportunities and they're going to start to happen.
Our next question is from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just want to go back to the full year earnings outlook question from the first questioner.
And I just want to make sure I'm interpreting you correctly in that I think you were saying the reason for just keeping the range and not raising it despite the large beat at least versus our expectations is simply because of the broader higher-level macro and not because of an expectation for specific segments to get worse in the back half.
Because you earned $1 in the first half so you have to earn less in the second versus the first to get to the midpoint of your range which in any normalized year historically has never happened.
So just wanted to make that clarification and if it is the businesses which ones are the drivers? No it is exactly as I said.
We're -- I think if you looked at where Bell is today and where the industrial business is the systems business I talked a little about I think I have a reasonable degree of confidence in forecasting what their performance will look like through the balance of the year.
But at Cessna we are in the same mode that we've been in for a few years here where we're taking orders and selling in sort of a 3- to 6-month window for the most part.
And I still worry about the back half of the year in terms of what the market's going to look like.
And that's just driven by I believe a lot of uncertainty in economies.
I think there's a lot of concern about heading toward November a lot of small midsized business guys who are our customers are very concerned about the balance of the year and where things are going in terms of election and politics.
You've got debt ceilings you've got sequestrations.
You've got massive changes to tax policy.
So I remain concerned that we'll have too many people sitting on the sideline as opposed to guys that are willing to make significant capital investments and hiring people and things like that.
So I think it's proven at this point given the uncertain nature of the economic and political situation particularly in the U.S.
that we'd be a little bit cautious about the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then as a follow-up to the Cessna order topic orders weren't through the roof but they were certainly -- they kind of held in there relative to how bad the macro was in the quarter.
Can you talk about whether or not part of that is share gain? And you have new management and new product strategy and the degree to which you think you're taking share back from competitors that maybe had some inroads versus you.
And then as a second question when you mentioned gross book-to-bill being above 1 I think that's been the case for a few quarters.
So what's the timing at which you think the cancellations finally end such that even without core gross order improvement you'd automatically have book-to-bill above 1? Noah I've been trying to stay out of the guessing game on the order book but like let me just say it.
I think we feel good about what gross orders were in the second quarter.
I think that it feels like we're taking some share.
I haven't seen the MBAA numbers yet.
Embraer's put their numbers out but I haven't seen numbers from any of the other businesses.
We'll obviously we'll see that here in the pretty near future.
But I would say that I think our sales teams are doing a great job in terms of coverage.
Certainly a lot of new products that we've announced.
This generated a lot of interest in our brand and our product continues to be very well received in the marketplace.
So I think we're continuing to do well and I would guess that we have seen some share pickup in the quarter and I would expect that to continue.
So it's not like I feel bad about where we are in terms of orders.
Our order rate has been pretty good.
I think the guys are doing a nice job out there.
It's just caution in the macro environment that would cause us to feel strong enough at this point to take our overall guidance number up.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Just a couple of questions just back to R&amp;D.
Obviously you do have a lot going on and R&amp;D has to go up.
I think in some of your prior conversations though the thought was yes R&amp;D goes up but it doesn't outpace sales growth once we get beyond this year.
Is that view changing? No I don't think so.
No I think the comment Jeff was just that it's more back-end loaded than front-half loaded this year but the longer-term look at R&amp;D is still the same.
Right.
And Scott can you just share some thoughts on sequestration? You've taken the view that it won't happen.
Unfortunately you're taking that view because you're a logical businessman right and we're operating in a world where maybe things aren't so logical.
So whether you think it's going to happen or not what does Textron do if it does happen? I mean how do you posture? Can you do things in advance? Do you even know what sequestration would mean for your businesses at this point? Yes Jeff I mean it really is something at this point that you can't plan for because the fundamental flaw in my view of sequestration is it's just bad policy.
If people decide that there needs to be a further reduction in the defense budget and obviously the defense community doesn't like that idea.
But even if you are going to take it down the issue is you surely would never do it in the fashion it's laid out in the sequestration law right where you do a -- spread it across everything every program every spending item everything gets hit by a common percent.
I mean first of all it would be a disaster for the government because that means every contract every worker everything out there gets impacted which is going to result in a massive deluge of contract changes requests for equitable adjustments.
I mean it would cost the government more money than they would ever say.
I mean there's actually contracts.
You can't just go out there and arbitrarily change contracts without having ramifications of that.
Just from a pure administration standpoint you would never do that.
The other course is if you're going to take more money out and I'm not betting against by the way that they're going to take more money out.
I think that there still could be when they work their way through I'd be very surprised if it's a lame-duck process -- session.
But when you get into a new Congress and they actually start to figure out what they got to cut and what they're going to do about the deficits that there could still be a further allocation of cuts to defense.
But I think you have to let that go work the way it normally does just like the first $0.5 billion of defense is already taken where you go to the Pentagon you go to Congress okay we're going to take up this much money.
And there's actually a thoughtful rational way about what programs get hit what programs don't get hit and you proceed down that path.
So I think I wouldn't be very surprised if sequestration gets invoked just because of inaction in our political process.
That wouldn't surprise me a whole lot at this stage of the game.
But I think once that hits there will be some emergency sessions and people will actually say "Okay if we're going to cut money here's how we have to do it." And the problem with planning for that is you don't know what programs they're going to go try to take money out.
So I don't think it's going to be an across-the-board deal.
I think that's an administrative -- it's bad policy.
Administratively it's bad.
It's bad for defense.
But knowing where the cuts ultimately will come at this point would be absolute guesswork and I just don't think we can -- we're wasting our time to even try and to do so -- a plan for that.
And our next question is from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on sort of big picture on Cessna Scott if you -- I wondered if you might compare and contrast the demand environment to the sort of summer slowdown periods we've seen in the past couple of years and whether it's any different than what we saw last year better or worse? And then a point of clarification with respect to the order book and the NetJets order and whether there's any portion of that that's included in the backlog? Okay in terms of the macro view of Cessna I mean we certainly are not where we were 2 summers ago where when the euro sort of crisis first hit it sort of froze the market.
We have not seen that level of reaction.
Frankly even with what's going on in Europe right now we still continue to see order flow in Europe.
Obviously it's in -- mostly around countries that are still economically doing better than some others.
So we haven't seen that sort of falling off a cliff where everybody just stops.
So I guess in that regard it's more like it was last summer right? I mean we went through it and we kind of -- we muddled along we continue to get orders.
And I think there is still demand out there obviously for the product.
There are still people who want to do upgrades and they want to put new aircraft and that's the flow that we're seeing.
And so our belief is that's why we think we're going to continue to have a solid year.
But there's still the macro overhang of it.
So the macro level is certainly not like it was 2 summers ago when the market just absolutely stopped.
It is much more like last year and I would hope it will continue like that.
That's what we seem to see in the demand right now.
In terms of the NetJets order no.
None of the NetJets order is into our backlog.
The process of how we're proceeding is that we will put aircraft into the backlog as we identify a specific serial number to be delivered to NetJets to fulfill their customer demand.
And obviously with this aircraft coming into market in 2015 in the -- just really getting into the marketing and the selling process on the NetJets side I wouldn't expect to see those aircraft going into the backlog for some time because again we won't put them into the backlog until we see assigned specific serial numbers.
And we'll do that on an aircraft-by-aircraft basis.
We will not put that entire order into the backlog at any point in time.
It will come in on a aircraft-by-aircraft basis.
Research Division</strong> And one other just sort of brief follow-up.
You mentioned the aftermarket performance at Cessna.
I wonder if you might comment on what you're seeing on that front at Bell? Bell aftermarket performance was good as well.
Yes kind of still good growth there.
Research Division</strong> Similar to the mid-single digit at Cessna? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Scott last quarter you talked about the price environment being tough being a headwind last quarter.
Could you address pricing year-over-year and sequentially at Cessna? I would say still a difficult pricing environment.
As I indicated on the call in the last quarter we saw tougher pricing on a year-over-year basis than we would like to have seen as we're kind of battling our way through things.
In terms of sequential we actually saw some modest improvements.
We actually put a couple of those price increases out there in the market and then pull back on some of the allowances.
And I think our sales team has done a nice job of closing a lot of orders and getting a little bit of price back.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the Cessna you noted your conservatism obviously with all the macro issues.
But could you maybe talk about where you are in terms of being sold on the rest of the year relative to whatever delivery number you have baked into the revenue guidance and how that would compare to the last couple of years when you were midway through the year? No we're not talking about unsold positions at this point David.
But as I've said I mean I think the reality of the market where we are and have been now for some time is that it's safe to assume a lot of the aircraft are going from an order sales process that's in the 3- to 6-month kind of time frame typically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one Frank on the pension side will you guys benefit at all from the recent change in the pension legislation smoothing the discount rate? From a funding standpoint I think you were looking at pretty meaningful contributions on a go-forward basis.
Yes.
No it won't have a big impact from a minimum-required pension contribution.
It helps us to the tune of $30-ish million or so so it's not a big number.
And we've been making contributions just because of our funded status at levels as you know well above our minimum contribution levels and kind of we anticipate and continuing to do that for a bit longer.
So it doesn't have really any impact on how we think about that.
And our next question is from Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Scott could you give us some color on the demand at Cessna both by product by geography and kind of the pace going through the quarter? Did it sort of slow down as I would assume kind of in the last part of the quarter early July? You know Cai we didn't see much of a slowdown.
I would say in terms of geography both our orders and our deliveries at this stage of the game are kind of sitting in the 60-40 60% domestic 40% international kind of market.
And I would say it was pretty steady through the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And by product I mean we've been hearing that maybe the mids and super mids are firming a little bit.
You seeing any sort of areas stronger or weaker? It's relatively balanced.
I mean the XLS plus had a very good quarter.
We continue to see strong position in the CJ4s.
There were some CJ2s 3s.
Mustangs were about flat so it's pretty well across the portfolio.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then help me understand your comment the guidance is the same and yet your corporate expense is way down.
And unless you're assuming your stock price surges it looks like that's going to come in a fair bit lower than you expected.
And you indicated expecting some more favorable adjustments on liquidation.
So it looks like TFC is going to do better than expected even if it about breaks even for the year.
So is this really conservatism or help us understand why that guidance didn't change.
Well I think that if you would accuse me of conservatism Cai I would say that it probably is conservative on our view of how we will do on Cessna for the balance of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
You're right that there's obviously some of the upside we've seen at TFC associated with the Golf Mortgage liquidations.
Kind of when you look at our overall guidance I mean that will tend to push us towards the high side of the guidance based on that number being a number that is stronger than guidance.
And I would -- I'd say that's going to be true but I still think we're going to be a little conservative if you're on the total of your Cessna number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
Now you mentioned that R&amp;D is going to move up in the second half up sequentially from where we were in the second quarter.
And was the second quarter may be not up much from the first and not up much year-to-year so it's really the R&amp;D profile has something to do with the numbers of the full year? Well we've never talked about quarterly kind of R&amp;D because it does fluctuate Cai depending on kind of different things that are going on with different programs.
But it will -- and we always expected it to be a bit back-end loaded relative to the first half of the year.
Your next question is from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So I guess firstly just on Bell commercial you've been fairly positive on that for sort of 6 or 9 months and it certainly seems to be coming through in your numbers.
Could you talk a little bit about your expectations for volume delivery growth in Bell commercial over the next sort of 12 months? And also what's happening on the pricing side there given that you've had this inflection on volume? Well I think on the volume side of Bell the year is playing out very much as we expected and guided so we are going to see for the total year significant growth in terms of Bell deliveries.
And I think you're seeing that here in the second quarter as we had pretty strong deliveries on the commercial side.
I expect that will continue through the balance of the year.
I think we'll see particularly strong mix increase on the 429s and our 407s.
As I said I think both products are doing very well in the marketplace and pricing has been good.
The market -- the demand is strong around the world and so as you would expect there's been some pricing power as well.
Research Division</strong> And then just sort of yet another question on Cessna unfortunately but if -- I just wondered how you're thinking about the sort of business jet taken from landing data to the sort of the traffic data and how that affects your outlook for the second half? Because I guess the U.S.
you had good growth for sort of 3 years and that's largely expired.
The U.S.
traffic seems to -- in Europe sorry traffic seems to be down a little bit.
So how does that -- when you're thinking about I guess second half or the next 12 months the core assumption around traffic growth versus market share gains that you can get from price how do you think about those 2 drivers for Cessna volumes? We don't look at that a whole lot in terms of volume driver.
I mean we certainly look at average deal utilizations and there's some tie-in in terms of looking at the service business and there are people using their aircraft or not using their aircraft and that's been pretty steady in the last year or so.
It went down a lot obviously from the '07 '08 kind of numbers.
But the number that we see right now in terms of the ADUs for the quarter are very consistent with what we saw last year.
So people are using their aircraft and as a result they're coming into the service centers and they're – having maintenance work done and upgrade work done.
So I think it's -- that that piece of utilization is something we look at more around what is it driving in the service business as opposed to new aircraft sales.
On new aircraft sales side we tend to look more at the metrics around what's available in the used market and what percentage of the fleet that's out there is available for sale.
And those numbers continue to go the right direction.
We were down -- we believe our fleet now is down somewhere just above 12%.
And in particular if you look at the models that are still in production models and what's available for sale in the market of those model types for most of our models that's now down in the mid-single digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then finally just on the industrial business very good core growth sort of 11% much better than a lot of other industrial companies this quarter.
What's the update there on the sort of the investment program there and how you're thinking about the cost base? I mean are you investing sort of substantially to make sure that type of growth continues or is it sort of largely a one-off court and do you think the growth will normalize from here? Well I mean a lot of the growth is driven.
I mean if you look at our Golf and Turk markets those were pretty hard hit.
Those have started to rebound a little bit so I think we saw good performance in the E-Z-GO business across not just Golf but also the commercial and consumer markets.
We had a reasonably strong quarter with Jacobsen.
You see more people going back and having to replace mowing equipment.
The industrial tools business did well.
I mean we had some FX challenges there but volumes and profitability continue to be recovering in the industrial tool world.
And Caltex we've kind of hung in there.
As we said we've seen some softness in Europe which is our probably our biggest market for that business but that was offset by a continued strength in the North American market.
And I would say probably growth is not as strong as it has been in Asia but it's still growing in Asia in terms of the automotive market.
And our next question is from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Scott I think you're probably going into or in the 2013 strat planning sessions and looking at Cessna and coupling that with your commentary about the second half's economic geopolitical uncertainty.
Are you still looking for higher production at Cessna into 2013 that you'd kind of preliminary pass along to the supply chain come September? Well I mean you're right.
We have -- we are in that process.
In fact we've just completed doing that with all the businesses so we are developing a view I would say at this point in time.
But I would say we're not at the point where I would start to talk about issuing 2013 guidance on the businesses.
Research Division</strong> I guess the near-term activity if you decouple it to that second half kind of event risk situation I mean would that still make you comfortable that you're in what you've talked about before of kind of consistent recovery maybe it's slower than previous cycles but still a recovery nonetheless? Yes absolutely.
I would say the macro level I wouldn't change the tone of our view that we will expect sort of a steady slow recovery in the market.
The issue of course is that can have some peaks and valleys along the way and so we always have to keep an eye out for that.
But no there's certainly -- in terms of talking to customers and looking at the activity that's going on in the market looking at demand and where it is we don't have any reason to feel differently than this like the midsized jet market will continue and make a slow steady recovery.
And obviously part of what we factor in is with a lot of the new products that we're putting out in the marketplace we would expect -- certainly expect to see some share growth over that period as well.
So I don't think anything versus what we've told you in the past is different in terms of sort of macro mid- to long-term view of the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a clarification I guess on delinquencies.
I know it wasn't a big pickup sequentially but I think it's the first one that was seen in the last couple of years if not longer.
And I think you said it was aircraft customers.
So I'm curious when is the trend going to start going the wrong way? And is that indicative of either higher-risk customers coming into the portfolio or customers who've been in there a while starting to show weakness? No I mean you're right.
The 60-day delinquency trend was driven by a couple of sizable aircraft accounts.
I mean I never liked to see a data point that goes the wrong direction but I mean it did go the wrong direction but I don't think that's going to be a trend.
I mean these are customers that we know we understand there's a couple of specific issues that are going on but I don't think they're -- I don't find it personally alarming at this point.
I think it's something that we'll be able to get under control and get the delinquency heading back in the right direction.
Research Division</strong> And these aren't necessarily customers or are these customers who entered the picture in the last 24 months or customers who have been in there longer? No no no.
For the most part these are guys that have been on the book for quite some time.
And our next question is from Steve Levenson with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think all the good questions have been asked.
I just wondered if you had any commentary on the developments around Hawker Beechcraft the price discussion and if you think the door is absolutely closed to any sort of participation by Textron? Well the HB process is certainly not closed to anyone at this stage of the game right? I mean they basically have entered into a negotiation process with a what is effectively a stocky horse in the normal bankruptcy process.
So I don't think it's certainly technically not closed to anyone.
On the other hand I'd say the number that's out there is a number that's a pretty high number so we obviously as everyone will kind of watch it as it goes through in a pretty public process and just going to see how it plays out.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess you might like to get that valuation for Cessna.
Well I -- we think we should.
Our next question is from the line of Ron Epstein with BofA.
Research Division</strong> It's Elizabeth in for Ron this morning.
Just a follow-up on the last question.
What implications do you think there could be for Cessna from the recent deal to sell Hawker to the Chinese with your Chinese partnership? Well I mean again this is a process that I think is still fairly early on.
We'll see how things work out.
If in fact the Chinese do buy Hawker then it means Hawker's still in the market.
So we've been competing with these guys for a very long time and we'll continue to do that.
Frankly I think if you look at the investments that we're making and things like the Latitude and the Longitude the things we're doing with our service network for the reasons that we've been very successful versus Hawker Beechcraft in the last couple of years are the reasons that we would continue to be very successful against those products and that capability in the marketplace regardless of who happens to be the equity behind it so...
Research Division</strong> So what about your deal to build a new airplane with the Chinese? Well yes I mean we're still continuing our discussions with AVIC.
I think the Chinese market is going to be a big market.
And there's going to be a lot of competition in China.
Obviously the things that we've been trying to do with AVIC is to give us capability in the country that we think will be attractive to customers to help make us competitive in China but I don't think by any means do we think we'll ever be the only guy to oversell in China.
I mean everybody sells in China today and I think everybody will sell in China tomorrow.
We continue our discussions with AVIC to see if that's not something that gives us a competitive advantage in that marketplace.
And so from that perspective I don't see that as a change.
And we have a follow-up question from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Yes just a couple of -- it's probably more nitty things.
But was there any LIFO benefit at Cessna in this quarter like you had in last year's second quarter? No.
Okay.
And that's a -- there was a slight sequential decline in the margin at Bell even though revenues were higher and maybe it's too small to worry about going from 14.6 to 14.4.
Any reason for it because commercial was better? Well I mean commercial obviously the commercial mix is usually somewhat dilutive in our margin.
We did have -- when I talk commercial I'm talking about OE right? So when you see more unit volumes things like 429s and 407s in terms of the original equipment sale those tend to have some dilution.
But you're right we get into 0.001 site I wish I was that good George.
Yes that's what I figured.
All of our businesses as we've seen have a fair amount of quarterly volatility to them.
There's lots of ins and outs.
And we do have another follow-up from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick one back to the Hawker Beechcraft process.
Obviously the defense piece of that portfolio the trainer businesses is still out there.
I wondered if you might comment on whether that's something you'd still be interested in or any comment would be welcome.
Carter I think that we have the same general view.
These are assets in which we have an interest but again it would have to be at a value that we thought was appropriate.
In general I would say this whole situation with HB we've always expressed an interest.
I think some of the assets of the company are interesting and would be a good fit in our company and that we could do the right thing for their existing customers and our customers.
It would all work.
But at the same time whether it's the overall HB situation or the defense piece these are things that I think given the investments we're making given the position where Cessna is today I feel great about what our team is doing.
So we don't have to do something here.
If it's the right value and it will be accretive for our business then absolutely we're interested.
But if it's not something that's going to be a good financial deal and it's not going to be a good investment for our shareholders then we'll pass on these things.
Research Division</strong> Is it your perception that that piece is going to have a sufficient number of interested parties? It's a good question I don't know.
I mean you can imagine a couple of people that would be interested in it but I think we'll have to wait to see how that plays out.
We'll go to the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs for a follow-up.
Research Division</strong> I just had one follow-up on systems.
You've obviously put up a number of nice wins there that start to flow through beyond 2012.
And right now we're seeing the business show negative growth.
And beyond the 2012 period you probably still have a number of headwinds.
I know you don't want to talk specifics beyond 2012 yet so I wondered if you could just say with everything you want and everything you know about the legacy business do you think systems is up or down in 2013? Well again Noah I think it's -- it would be premature to get into 2013 guidance at this stage of the game.
The only thing I'd really talk to is around 2012 and we are behind a little bit where we would like to be on the revenue side of things for '12.
But I think with some of the wins we've had and some of the dynamics of the business right now that we still think we'll probably get back to about flattish for the year.
Research Division</strong> And can you comment on just directionally positive or negative next year or too early to do that? I think it's too early to do that.
I mean a lot of these programs we've talked about on Ship-to-Shore is a relatively small impact to this year.
It's a little bit bigger impact to next year but again primarily driven around research and development.
TAPV there are -- is a fabulous program win but that really is production volumes that are -- later on I mean we're already kind of where we need to be in terms of maintaining productions as we go through next year.
So the TCDL win obviously is something that will help a little bit next year.
So I think -- I don't think you're going to see a big swing one way or the other in 2013.
We'll go to the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just one last question here on systems and I apologize if you've already answered this question but I didn't quite hear the details.
The outlook for the rest of the year to get back to roughly flat can you just give us a little bit of detail Scott on what needs to happen in the back half of this year? What programs specifically do you think are going to see an acceleration in the revenue outlook for the back half of the year? Well we had a couple of programs that drove some of the -- caused us to be under where we are today primarily driven around some FMS transactions where it was a matter of getting through the finitization of contracts and getting things signed which I believe have happened now.
So I think we will be able to firm up more in the back half of the year.
I guess I'd rather not go into a specific contract-by-contract basis.
There's a lot of contracts going on right? I mean we have talked about some of the larger and more strategic wins.
But when you look at things that are going on options that are being exercised on armored security vehicle business upgrades that are going on in the UAV business some FMS sales in our precision munitions business these are all sort of full business if you will.
But those things many of those things have been just difficult to get through the whole process and get the finitized contracts done.
So the things that we knew we were going to have there was no question about was the program going to happen or be funded or not it was just a matter of getting under contract getting finitized and getting everything lined up so that we can get about with doing the production and test and sell them.
The slowdown that was what caused the first half to be a little softer but I think we'll recover that in the back half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to your question -- your comment on pricing it says in some of the price increases is that fairly broad based at this point or is that kind of model specific? It was pretty broad based.
The price increases were on a couple of specific models.
But incrementally on a quarter-over-quarter basis we saw some pricing improvements in virtually all models.
And I think there's only one model I can think of where the pricing was sort of flattish or -- versus before.
But on a quarter-over-quarter virtually all the models were off a little bit in price.
Okay thank you ladies and gentlemen for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen today's conference will be made available for replay after 10:00 a.m.
today until October 16 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T executive playback service at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 225826.
International participants may dial 1 (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Textron Third Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Doug Wilburne Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Terry and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Moving now to third quarter results.
Revenues in the quarter were $3 billion up 6.6% from a year ago.
Our income from continuing operations was $0.48 per share up from $0.45 in the third quarter of 2011.
Third quarter manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was $153 million compared to $339 million in last year's third quarter.
We contributed $16 million to our pension plans during the quarter.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
Our third quarter results reflected strength in our helicopter industrial units continued favorable liquidation activity in our financial portfolio and good execution at Cessna in what turned out to be a weak business jet demand environment especially in July and August.
The quarter also reflected charges 	associated with our new fee-for-service unmanned aerial systems programs as well as lower volumes in the Systems business.
As you know earlier this year Systems won 2 contracts associated with our Aerosonde platform to provide UAS services to the DoD on a fee-for-service basis.
Cost estimates for these programs were based on our extensive experience offering Shadow Systems for the DoD under government-owned contractor-operated contracts.
We thought most of the operating expertise would be directly transferable to the Aerosonde platforms but it turns out the operating know-how did not transfer well and we had significant start-up issues during the quarter as we began systems deployment.
To address these issues we augmented training procedures added resources and adjusted our estimated costs to support the programs such that we expect they will operate at a loss during the initial phase of the contracts.
Consistent with contract accounting rules in the third quarter we recorded charges of about $14 million representing the expected losses on these contracts.
So we anticipate the Aerosonde activities will be recorded at breakeven through the next 3 quarters having already booked the estimated losses.
We are also experiencing some delays in our TCDL and SFW programs.
Therefore I think it is likely that we will miss our original full year guidance at Systems for flat revenues by about $100 million to $200 million.
Looking forward we will focus on improving program execution at Systems.
Moving to our Finance segment.
We had a successful quarter liquidations as we reduced noncap to finance receivables by another $161 million including a $90 million reduction in our timeshare portfolio which included payoff of the largest remaining individual timeshare credit plus a $60 million reduction in our Golf Mortgage portfolio primarily as a result of loan sales.
Our noncap to finance portfolio now stands at $458 million.
Shifting to industrial.
Volume has reflected normal summer seasonality but we continue to see year-over-year volume growth in our golf and turf and auto fuel systems businesses with an overall organic growth rate for FX of about 7.5%.
We do believe that we will see some volume softness in the fourth quarter as it appears that the European export auto market and the Japanese OEM auto business reflecting current Japanese-Chinese tensions are expected to be slower in the fourth quarter.
Moving now to Cessna.
We delivered 41 jets in the quarter down from last year's 47 reflecting the weaker summer market.
Specifically July and August were very quiet order months with a pickup of activity in September.
In the meantime we believe that generating essentially flat segment profit with fewer jet deliveries demonstrates the progress we're making with our overall cost structure at Cessna.
We also made good progress on the new product front during the quarter starting with an announcement that we increased the range of our Latitude by 25%.
Latitude will now be a 2 500 nautical mile airplane which we believe significantly enhances the value of this offering to our customers.
Our design team was also able to announce a new top speed for the new Citation Ten at Mach 0.935 preserving its gestation as the fastest commercial jet in the world.
We also had important announcements in the quarter with 3 new global company-owned service centers.
Most recently we announced the acquisition of a service center in Doncaster U.K.
which followed the announcement of a new service center in Valencia Spain.
During the quarter we also announced the opening of a new joint Cessna Bell Service Center in Singapore.
These investments in aftermarket infrastructure are extremely important to both Cessna and Bell as they capture future annuity streams in the form of service revenue and create a stronger touchpoint with -- for our customers for future sales.
To wrap up with Bell on the military side we delivered 11 V-22s and 5 H-1s versus 9 V-22s and 7 H-1s in last year's third quarter.
We saw another significant increase our commercial business with 46 units delivered in the quarter up from 26 last year.
This growth reflects continued overall strength in global helicopter markets as well as the ramp-up in our 429 program and the success of our new 407GX.
To wrap up the quarter we continue to make great progress strengthening the portfolio with Finance on favorable terms.
At Systems we experienced some execution difficulties during the quarter and we are addressing those.
Industrial has maintained growth and good operational execution in an otherwise challenging economic environment.
I believe Cessna did a good job in the quarter closing new orders in a very thin market.
And they have made such substantial progress with their overall cost structure over the past year.
Bell continues to execute well in both its military and commercial businesses.
Finally across our manufacturing units we remain committed to making investments in new product development sales capabilities service capabilities and manufacturing productivity.
With that I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thanks Scott and good morning everyone.
Manufacturing segment profit in the quarter was $254 million down $6 million from the third quarter of 2011 on a $154 million increase in manufacturing revenues.
Let's look at how each of the segments contributed starting with Cessna.
Revenues at Cessna were up $7 million on a year-over-year basis primarily reflecting higher used jet sales which more than offset lower new jet and other product line sales.
Aftermarket sales were up approximately 2% which was against a tough comparison as aftermarket sales were up 13.7% in last year's third quarter.
Segment profit was $30 million down $3 million from last year's third quarter.
At Bell revenues were up $181 million primarily due to the higher deliveries of commercial units and V-22s.
Segment profit increased $22 million reflecting the higher volume.
At Textron Systems revenues were down $62 million primarily due to lower volumes.
Segment profit decreased $26 million reflecting the fee-for-service charges Scott described earlier and lower volume.
Industrial revenues increased $28 million reflecting higher volumes across most of the businesses partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange.
Segment profit increased $1 million primarily due to the higher volume partially offset by cost inflation in excess of price increases.
Moving to finance.
Total finance receivables ended the quarter down $233 million from the prior quarter.
Non-accrual accounts ended the quarter at $145 million a decrease of $107 million from the prior quarter.
60-day delinquencies were $114 million a $55 million improvement from the second quarter.
Moving to corporate items.
Corporate expenses were $38 million in the quarter up significantly from the second quarter primarily the result of higher prevailing share price which increased compensation-related expenses.
Interest expense was $35 million flat with the second quarter.
Moving now to cash flow.
On a year-to-date basis cash flow from continuing operations of the manufacturing group before pension contributions was $168 million versus $455 million at this point last year.
The most significant drivers affecting the lower cash flow this year are lower advance payments on military contracts at Bell an increase in Cessna used inventory reflecting higher trading activities and the wind-down of our Citation air fractional program plus an increase in inventories at Systems related to delayed program activity.
For full year 2012 manufacturing cash flow we are maintaining our target of $700 million to $750 million.
To conclude in anticipation of continued positive performance at Bell and our outlook for jet demand at Cessna in the fourth quarter we are increasing our full year EPS guidance from $1.80 to $2 a share to a range of $1.95 to $2.05 a share.
That concludes our prepared remarks so operator we can open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask about Cessna demand and orders.
In the past couple of quarters you talked about cancellations still impacting the Cessna backlog.
I wondered if you could speak to where gross orders and cancellations were this quarter versus last.
And then in the context of that I believe you've commented that Cessna book-to-bill could go above 1 before the end of this year or sometime soon simply by having cancellations come down if gross demand doesn't change.
I wondered if you thought if you still think that could happen next quarter or in the next couple of quarters.
Well Noah I would say that in terms of cancellations the cancellation number continues to come down.
It was down again in the third quarter.
This issue for us of course is the third quarter was fairly light in terms of gross orders so order activity as I said was very very light in July and August.
We did see it coming back in September.
So if you look at the gross book-to-bill number for the quarter was probably somewhere around 0.85.
So obviously for it to get above 1 we need 2 things to happen.
We need to see a continued reduction in the number of cancellations.
I feel pretty confident that trend is obviously going to continue.
We expect the cancellations will continue to come down and are really at a point where they're becoming pretty de minimis here going forward.
But we need to get better gross orders.
And certainly what we're expecting is that despite a pretty tough market here in the past quarter that we'll see a more normal gross order level activities in the fourth quarter as compared to what we've seen in say '11 and even '10.
So that's I think a reasonable assumption in terms of what we see going on in the market.
And September was certainly better but in terms of gross orders recovering from a very very quiet July and August just really wasn't in the cards.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And so I guess when you put all of those considerations in anything you can share on the current thinking for where you'll put 2013 production versus 2012? Well I mean we're certainly not at a point where we're ready to give guidance yet on 2013.
We'll do that in January but I mean I think it's obvious as you watch through the course of the year and not knowing what's going on exactly in the market at this point you' probably think something that's going to be around flattish but we'll give a more refined guidance for you when we get into our January call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more on the Systems charge.
Did you say $13 million 1 3? $14 million sorry 1 4.
Research Division</strong> So the margin would have -- I guess the operating margin would have been somewhere a little north of 8.5% excluding that.
That's kind of trending below where you've been the past few quarters.
Is that sort of the run rate going forward? Or are there other reasons that should come back up on an adjusted basis? Well I think that if you think about next quarter in particular the revenues that we book associated with that program being in the 0 margin that's probably not a bad way to think.
But in terms of a longer-term run rate no I think we'll still expect to be higher than that.
There were a couple of things obviously that hit us in the quarter.
One was as you know the charge associated with these programs which is frankly are just an execution problem and one that we have to go work on.
But we also had delays in some volume deliveries of programs that are good programs and will deliver.
But we have deliveries that were supposed to be in the third quarter which are now moved into the fourth quarter and even into 2013 that are good normal margin programs.
And that was also a part of what was leading to the drag on the margin rates.
Next we'll go to the line of Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you tell us how many used Citations you did deliver during the quarter and maybe the sales and earnings associated with that? Sure Pete.
This is something that I think is important to understand when you do the analysis on Cessna margin rates.
The revenues were roughly flat but that's because we had an additional $30-some million of used aircraft sales.
So really what happened here in the quarter is that as a result of the light orders early in the quarter our deliveries as we said was down to 41 versus 47 on the new side and that revenue or bulk of that revenue was made up for with used jets.
Now it's good that the used jet market is moving and that we're able to start -- to move more used aircraft.
But the way that we account used aircraft is basically we end up selling those at 0 margin.
So that's a particularly bad mix when you see fewer new deliveries and more used deliveries.
And so you effectively had $30-plus million of 0 margin business in there.
When we bring used aircraft in we book them at their market value and generally that's about where we sell them.
So it's really a 0 margin mix.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood understood.
And then in terms of the gains on canceled jets less than $5 million? Or was that any meaningful number? Not a meaningful number.
Yes not a meaningful number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then I guess I just wanted to ask you one thing I'm trying to get clarity on could you update us on the status of the business jet depreciation rules as we go into 2013? Does accelerated depreciation end at this point? And if so what kind of impact do you think that will have? I think it's still 50% first-year depreciation.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no meaningful change kind of going into next year? No no.
and I think the one thing other thing Pete when you talk about one of the dynamics in terms of these cancellations and forfeiture deposit gains and the other dynamic of course is valuation of used aircraft.
As we've said over the last year or so these numbers have become small numbers and they are still small numbers.
But I do think you have to [ph] understand that I think if you went back to the third quarter of 2011 these were sort of mid-single digit number gains primarily driven by the fact that what few deposit forfeitures you had left was greater than revaluations.
You look at this third quarter again it's still a mid-single digit number but it's a mid-single digit number the other way okay? Because there are very few forfeiture of deposit gains owing to the fact that cancellations are way down.
But there's also a little bit -- again these are small numbers in terms of revaluations but when you add a small number the right way and the small number the wrong way you end up with a number that's sort of like a $10 million number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood understood.
And if I could just sneak in one last one I promise.
The FAA denying the 429 weight increase.
Can you talk about the impact to sales there going forward and the probability that you can work around that and maybe the timing? Because it does sound like that could be a catalyst if the FAA does approve it.
Well we certainly would see it as a catalyst if they do.
I mean obviously Canada which is the primary touch [ph] certificate holder has approved it.
We've had about I think we're up to about 10 other countries now have approved it based on the Canadian approval.
And so we have seen some sales.
I mean because we're able to market the full performance of the aircraft in those countries.
As you know the FAA has denied that extension.
Obviously we're appealing that and we're working with the FAA to try to find a path to do that whether that is through just a straight appeal on the exemption or whether there's some changes in how they view the part 27 part 29 certs.
I think the FAA is trying to work with us and understand the situation and see if there's not a path to get there.
But that will take obviously some period of time.
But in the meantime in quite a number of international markets we're able to market and sell the full capability of the aircraft.
And obviously we hope to be able to do that in the U.S.
as well.
Next we'll go to the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Scott just a couple of quick questions again on Cessna.
First can you describe the pricing environment for new aircraft? And then secondly what the fourth quarter's shaping up to look like from a seasonality perspective? Sure Jason.
So I mean pricing remains difficult in this environment.
It's still a pretty thin market and very very competitive.
There are some models that saw some better price and there some models that saw some worse price.
And I think that's kind of been the story here for a little while and I would expect it to be a still a bit of a struggle going forward given the market.
In terms of the seasonality of the fourth quarter again what we're assuming in our plan is that we'll see a fourth quarter in terms of order rates and activity that was similar to what we saw in the fourth quarter of 2010 and '11.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just got one last one on Cessna.
Can you just describe where we are in China from a market development perspective and just offer up some updated thoughts there? Sure.
So we are actively engaged.
As you know we signed a sort of a framework agreement with AVIC.
We are in active discussions on 3 separate -- with -- the structure of these is that you've got the AVIC and ourselves and then whatever municipal government associated with particular product lines which are in different regions of China which was part of the plan was to have us be in several different operations.
All those 3 negotiations are I would say progressing well.
I think we're very close to getting the finalized agreement on at least one perhaps two here in the fairly near future.
And the third which was sort of on the back burner for a while has kind of come back to a more active state of negotiations.
And I think we'll get that done in due time as well so they're all progressing as we expected.
And as you can appreciate getting through these negotiations and setting up new operations in -- with 3 parties at the table is not easy.
But we're -- been working through that and I think we're making good progress.
Next we'll go to the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you might talk about the -- I think you mentioned briefly what you saw on services.
But I wondered if you could speak to Bell and what you saw in terms of spares in terms of commercial versus military what kind of trends you're seeing there.
We don't usually break out the commercial versus military...
Research Division</strong> Were they directionally different? I'm just trying to get -- some other competitors have talked about weak military spares.
Is that a trend that you're seeing in Bell? It is not a trend that we're seeing Carter.
Year-to-date we're up high-single digits overall in aftermarket at Bell.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And briefly you mentioned in Industrial some anticipated softness there later in the year.
I wondered if you might talk to sort of the magnitude of that what you may be seeing in terms of order trends especially on the automotive side.
Well on the automotive side of course I mean fourth quarter seasonally is always a lighter quarter on the automotive side of the business in general because they tend to shut down towards the holiday seasons.
We're expecting it actually to be a little bit lighter than it normally would be and it's really driven by 2 things.
As we've gone through the year Europe which was supposed to be very soft all year we certainly saw some softness in Europe but some portions of Europe particularly those models of vehicles some of the large sedan higher-end vehicles that are very export-driven continued to be pretty strong through the year.
And we've seen some softening of that here and we expect some softness of that in the fourth quarter as the export market is a little bit slow and as opposed to most of the softness being sort of within the European consumption.
So I think that will be a trend of some softening in the fourth quarter.
And then the other which is a very sort of event-driven exercise is that this latest flare-up between China and Japan has effectively led to sort of a unofficial boycott of Japanese product in China.
And so the Japanese still an export but in particular some of our larger customers in China are Japanese OEMs that have manufacturing facilities in China.
And they're taking their volumes down dramatically as a result of Chinese people not buying Japanese-branded product even those that are made in China.
So I don't think that's necessarily a macro trend.
And some of that share will certainly shift to other places but it is a -- I think it'll be a bit of a problem in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And just one last quick one.
With respect to the DoD contract environment and the fourth quarter activity usually a big quarter for the government at the end of the fiscal year.
Did you see anything that looked different either better or worse given sequestration sitting out there? No I can't say that we've really seen anything very different.
It is still very difficult to get through the contract-negotiating process and the order processes.
It's taking extraordinarily long periods of time to do that but that's a trend that we've seen for the last couple of years.
On the sequestration front you hear sort of anecdotal things from different people about people either trying to accelerate getting something under contract or delaying something under contract and everybody wants to attribute to sequestration.
I'm not really sure you can do that.
I think people are sort of trying to read the tea leaves or read things into different activities also say with sequestration.
Our view on sequestration is in light of the fact that the government has not guided DoD DoD has not guided the contractors that we need to just let this thing play out.
Obviously some of our larger programs like the multiyear that we currently have with V-22 we would not expect any impact on sequestration on that.
We don't see it as a huge issue for us in the very near term.
And so rather than worrying a whole lot about it I think we need to wait and let's see what happens as we go through November and we go through the lame-duck session and get to where sequestration is either invoked or not invoked or how it's invoked.
I would say the good news for us is we will give you our guidance in the mid part of January.
And by that time I think we're going to know a whole lot more about where this sequestration process is going.
But for us [indiscernible]...
Next we'll go to the line of Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Scott I thought I'd kick off with Cessna.
You mentioned you had some an increase in used sales this quarter.
But I was wondering if you could comment on the broader used business jet market how the inventories are looking how the pricing is looking and perhaps how financing is tracking as well? I would say the used market if you look at it it has picked up.
The number of transactions has increased across the whole market.
Obviously we see that in our business.
In terms of pricing it remains quite flat.
And also when the books come out each quarter there's obviously there's normal depreciation of valuations but we haven't seen big moves one way or the other.
I mean we've seen some models where they've ticked up slightly and we've seen others where they've ticked down slightly in terms of how BRF and the Blue Book guys view the aircraft.
But so I would say on the positive side transactions are happening the market is moving.
But again I think there's still -- even though the numbers have come down dramatically it is still probably in all fairness more of a buyers' market than it is a sellers' market.
LLC Research Division</strong> And on the financing how easy is it for customers to get financing for used aircraft do you think? I'm not aware that there's any particular issues.
I mean again most of the aircraft that we deal with particularly the older aircraft are probably at a price point right now where it doesn't take a whole lot of money to get a reasonable LTV on a note and people seem to be able to get financing.
LLC Research Division</strong> And secondly on Bell you mentioned that the civil helicopter market showing some good strength there.
I was wondering if you could comment on how your market share has been tracking and what your initial thoughts might be for where 2013 could go on the civil helicopter market? Well I think the market has remained strong.
We feel pretty good about how our products are doing out in the marketplace.
I would say that we believe we are still continuing to gain some share and we'd like to think that we'll continue to do that.
I think the 429 has proven itself to be an outstanding helicopter and is doing very well and competing and winning around the world.
Things at the new 407GX that came out is doing is ordinarily well I think and continues to pick up share in that segment.
So when you look at some of those new products that are out there and I think John and the team have done a very nice job of sort of doubling down on our sales efforts and increasing the number of resources we have out there to make sure that we're covering all the regions.
We continue to do very well and I think we'll -- I feel pretty good that we'll stay on the trend.
Next we'll go to the line of Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Just a couple of other things coming back to Cessna.
Scott just thinking about Q4 you characterized some more seasonality to 2010 and 2011 but those were actually very different years right? In 2010 we had a triple in Q4 versus Q3 with that big back-end load and then last year looked a little bit more normal.
I just wonder if you can put a little bit more of a fence around this and give us some color on what to expect in Q4 what's anticipated in your guidance for Q4 for Cessna.
Well look Jeff I think we have been sort of guiding for the total year to be up modestly.
And I still believe that's where we're going to end up is up modestly.
As you know we've tried to work hard all year to get this thing to be more level loaded.
We certainly did not want to have the kind of a hockey stick delivery year that we saw for instance in '10 and to some degree in '11.
Obviously we were successful at doing that in the first couple of quarters.
We saw deliveries that were well ahead of the pace or deliveries that were well ahead of the pace of what we've seen in those previous years.
I would be kidding if I didn't say I would've hoped the third quarter would have been a little bit stronger in terms of the number of deliveries but the summer months were pretty tough.
But again as I -- seeing what happened in September and we look at what we need our deliveries to be to be up modestly over last year I think that that's still a reasonable plan.
So it'll be a few more deliveries in the fourth quarter than I would have liked to in terms of trying to level load this thing a bit more given a few deliveries light in the third quarter from where I would like to have been.
But I think given the order environment and what's going on I think that's still in the cards.
And then just thinking about the outlook going forward and obviously everybody's crystal ball is pretty darn cloudy.
But you made the comment after kind of a slow summer you see some return to kind of normalcy.
I mean is there something your customers in particular are pointing at? I mean does the market get better in your view regardless of who wins the election for example? Is it -- what kind of body language if you will to the extent that there is any do you get from the customer base and the outlook the next quarter or 2 in order intake? Well Jeff I would say that if you look -- and again Cessna our primary customers are small and mid-size businesses.
And there's no question that a lot of these guys are looking at a very uncertain next few months right? I mean you've got an election coming up here in a few weeks.
You've got the whole so-called fiscal cliff you've got tax policy you've got sequestration.
There's plenty of reasons to right now and say "Jeez I don't know what's going on." I personally believe that -- well okay so a lot of these guys would probably prefer to see one outcome versus the other in November but on the other hand I think people will wake up the morning after the election they may be happy they may be unhappy but to some degree people are going to have to dust themselves off and say "You know what I got to get on with my life." Right? So I think that a lot of these things that are giving people pause right now will -- people will get over these things right? I mean so as I always like to say it's -- you'd rather have good policy than bad policy but at least have policy know where things are going.
And so I think that the election will play out somewhat like that.
It'd be better to go one way than the other but either way I think it takes some uncertainty off the table and that's probably good for the market.
And just finally from me and I'll yield the floor.
Just can you give us any color on where the 2013 delivery of -- deliverability of backlog stands? In other words how much long-tailed stuff is still in backlog and how much is conceptually deliverable in '13? Jeff we have not been given our sold-outs or anything like that.
I think that -- I mean you guys see the backlog number from a dollar basis continuing to come down.
I think that the market the way I would see it in 2013 at this stage of the game is going to be very much a repeat of the 2012 market.
So the bulk of what's out there the bulk of the activity that has to happen in terms of selling aircraft is going to involve getting orders for aircraft.
So that's the way we've been playing here for a while and I think at this stage of the game that would be my view of how 2013 continues to play out.
Next we'll go to the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> How much of the $28 million in profit at Finance was gains on liquidation sales sales of assets? And do you expect TFC to be in the black in the fourth quarter? So Cai I think TFC is probably closer to breakeven in the fourth quarter and kind of there were the -- of the profit at TFC about 2/3 of that profitability was non-captive in the third quarter related to both kind of good liquidation activities at Golf as well as some non-accrual returns in the timeshare business.
So the captive business was about 1/3 of the profitability.
There was kind of some good credit performance embedded in that as well as just kind of more normalized profitability level out of the captive business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay terrific.
And getting back to Cessna Scott could you give us some -- you've done a fairly good job but maybe some more color with respect to strength or weakness by geographies and by product? I mean certainly looking at your mix in the quarter the big stuff was up year-over-year.
The little stuff wasn't in terms of the jet.
So give us some color on where you see the weakness.
Well I think on the -- if you look at the deliveries of jets themselves Cai you're right the mix is favorable in that it's been tending more to the sort of CJ4 XLS Sovereigns and the Mustangs in particular.
So that is good mix for us.
In terms of the question around geography our deliveries in the quarter were about 2/3 in the U.S.
and about 1/3 international and that's versus a trend we've had that's been more like a 60-40 trend for the last few quarters or so.
So if you look just at the jet deliveries themselves I think that was a positive for us in terms of mix.
The issues that were a little more trouble was having a lot of used aircraft in there okay which is very bad mix in that they're basically just a pass-through so they're not a margin.
A little bit of obviously I would say net pricing continues to be a challenge.
So even though you had some good mix in there I think we continue to still battle a little bit with some loss of price.
And then as I said earlier while they're small numbers they do matter in terms of the overall result at this point just because the overall number is small in terms of percent of naught percent are things like the residual and the fact that thankfully as a result of cancellations going down we're not seeing a whole lot of forfeiture gain.
So those are sort of the primary issues that are going on in terms of mix Cai that sort of nets out to where the operating margin landed good on the new jets challenged by used and again some relatively small numbers but things that are headwinds associated with price and just sort of the other items like residuals values and gains associated with deposit forfeiture.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I look at the sales it looks like either the prices were down or the parts and service were down because given on those deliveries I would have gotten a slightly higher sale so is that the case for parts and services down? And secondly was R&amp;D up sequentially in this quarter? No R&amp;D was not up sequentially so that was not a headwind for us.
Parts and services were up but only by a very small 1% or 2%.
And again we didn't see a real change in dynamic in the service business in the quarter but we're just comparing against the third quarter last year where it was up about 14%.
So and I would expect in the fourth quarter our parts -- we'll continue to see the rate of parts and services which was healthy in the quarter but it was just on a V basis a smaller piece of it [ph].
LLC Research Division</strong> And then you had the spectacular performance at Bell on strong V-22 deliveries.
Can you comment on how large were your cum catch profits on that program in the quarter? And how much more gas is left in that tank? There were not cum catch adjustments or EAC adjustments on those programs that had any impact on the numbers.
Next we'll go to the line of Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the core kind of gross margins in Cessna because I guess it sounds like R&amp;D isn't doing very much some effect from the used aircraft which you've discussed a lot.
But I guess overall when looking at the gross margins in that business do you feel that there's still a lot of room operationally to push that higher? Or now it's really a function of waiting for volumes? And I guess on pricing you had mentioned on the last earnings call that your sales force had tried a couple of price increases.
The rhetoric this time is very different.
So I guess if you could give an update on how that went on the price increase efforts and when you think you'll next try those same efforts again.
Well I think we made some moves on a couple of aircraft types where we saw demand that we thought warranted the market tightening up enough that we could get some price through and we have seen that on a couple of models.
But we continue to have some other models where we're not able to get price through.
So it's sort of a -- there's definitely mix within each model type Julian it's not that we don't believe we can get the price through on each model.
I mean so yes we've had some success but in some areas we have not had success in driving that price.
And that very much has to do with just the dynamic of the market right now and the number of opportunities out there and what the competition looks like.
So obviously that's something we'll continue to work on and I think that getting a little bit of stronger demand obviously would help that in the marketplace.
In terms of our gross margins we continue to work the gross margin side of the business.
I think we have made some overall improvements in the total cost structure of the business both fixed and variable and we'll continue to drive that.
So we're not going to wait for volume to save us on that thing.
I mean we continue to drive productivity across all sides of the business and I think there's still some opportunity for us to get better at that even with flat volume.
Obviously our plan here is try to position these things with a cost structure so that we get very good leverage when the volume comes back into the business which I think is inevitable.
But we're not going to just simply sit and wait for that either.
So the cost activities will continue regardless.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just quickly I wondered on the Hawker assets I mean you gave some update last time if there was anything to add this time in your thinking.
No there really isn't.
We haven't -- we continue to sort of watch what's going on and obviously as everyone knows they've been in sort of an exclusive negotiation period with the Chinese buyer and to the best of our knowledge that process is continuing.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then finally just quickly on Bell commercial in a lot of industrial end markets you're seeing some slowing in larger project CapEx.
It sounds like Bell commercial though in terms of order intake still very very good.
I just wanted to make sure that that was the case you haven't seen any slowdowns or deferrals there.
No we haven't.
Our order intake and strength in the market on the commercial side seems to be sustaining.
Next we'll go to the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
One more on Cessna and then a couple of others.
Was there any LIFO benefit last year or this year? Yes -- there was not a LIFO benefit this year.
There was a kind of mid-single-digits benefit last year.
Okay.
And then actually one more on Cessna.
And then Scott as you looked at September this year how did it compare to September last year? And I don't know if this is -- you can say it or not but if you got similar orders the rest of the year that you got in September on a month basis would the book-to-bill be above 1 in that situation? Well before Scott answers because I -- let me just say that trying to go down to a month-by-month compare [ph] is a very slippery slope because when an order comes in one day to the next and so forth I think that's a difficult thing.
But obviously you picked up September recovered.
And if that continues that would certainly be what we hope for.
Yes.
George I mean I just again -- Doug's right I want to be careful here not to get into quarterly order flows but let's say from an overall color standpoint the third quarter this year was certainly very September-loaded.
If you consider sort of that rate then that's kind of the market dynamic we think we need to be able to meet our total year guidance of up modestly.
So the answer is kind of flat.
Yes.
Right? I mean if we can maintain the order rates that we saw in September through the balance of the year then I think we end up meeting our guidance of being up modestly for the year and that's kind of our expectation.
September this year Scott compared to September last year was better I assume? George I'm sorry I do not have the month-to-months on this year versus last year.
The third quarter this year was just slightly below the third quarter of last year but I'm sorry I don't know.
I just don't recall off the top of my head the dynamics of the exact number of aircraft orders per month in the third quarter last year.
Okay.
And then switch to the Systems.
The charge that you took on those contracts Scott I thought those contracts were like 3- or 5-year contracts.
Are they broken into yearly pieces so you'd have a 0 margin for the first year and then the opportunity to make money in the second year of those contracts or...
Yes that's correct.
I mean they're -- effectively George they're broken into options okay or task orders is the way they do it.
And so -- but if you look at the task orders they roughly break down to sort of 1-year duration task orders.
So we have already been operating under the first couple of task orders associated with one contract.
We've just begun the first task order of a second contract.
And so these charges pertain to those initial task orders.
And so we have effectively we -- and the way we do our program accounting the way we treat our EACs all the stuff that we would normally look at we treat looking at those on sort of a task order basis.
So yes the charge relates to our view of those task orders the costs associated with those task orders and that's how we drive the charge.
So you're right.
These are depending on those numbers of task orders that get exercised they're probably more in the 3- to 5-year sorts of ranges.
And so obviously these can still turn out to be good programs.
But our execution here in the initial phases of executing these first few task orders has not been good and that's what's reflected in the charge and obviously we're going to do everything we can to work hard and be able to meet that even booking of the balance of these initial task orders and obviously to position ourselves in a way that we get the kind of profitability that we expected on those future task orders.
And then maybe one for you Frank.
I mean just give us an update of what pension might look like for next year if you had to mark [ph] them up today? Sure.
And obviously it's -- there's a lot that can happen between now and year end and we haven't kind of run any of the numbers definitively.
If we maintained the existing assumptions from this year kind of going into next year there'd be a slight headwind associated with next year's pension number a kind of $15-ish million type number.
Obviously it remains to be seen kind of what the underlying assumptions are ultimately related to return and discount rate.
On the discount rate side we've given some sensitivities in our 10-K but kind of for instance a 50-ish basis point change in discount rate has a $30-ish million kind of impact on pension expense to give you some sensitivity around kind of those assumptions.
So that's kind of generally the framework.
And obviously there's kind of fair amount that can happen between now and then in terms of what those numbers ultimately look like.
Next we'll go to the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> As you talk about Cessna being flattish into '13 I guess I would have thought you'd get some contribution from the Citation Ten and M2 coming into the market.
Are those not going to be big contributors? Or is the rest of the core business more where you're seeing the kind of the puts to the gains on the Citation Ten and M2? Well we will see some Ten activity although that is very more sure as the latter part of 2013.
We will have we think a reasonable volume of M2s as that comes into production.
But we're still -- and then this is why -- I mean I'm trying to be careful because I'm really not trying to guide a number okay? But I mean just given the overall market dynamic there can be some positive contribution by the fact that we have some of the new product getting out there but we're also seeing not a market recovery through the course of this year that we would necessarily have liked to have seen building the kind of momentum into '13 that we would have hoped for.
Now maybe that'll change as we go through the fourth quarter right? So fourth quarter is always a very important quarter and we'll get a lot of these other issues around elections and fiscal issues and whatnot out of the way.
I think we'll be able to provide you a lot more visibility into our thoughts and rationale for how we get into 2013 guidance.
Research Division</strong> The other one Frank you talked about the reason for lower manufacturing cash flow year-to-date.
And I think you cited Bell advances higher Cessna use Systems inventory growth.
I'm just curious 4Q looks like it'll have to be as good as what was last year's 4Q which was really quite impressive.
I'm just curious are there any of those things that you talked about as being weak points in the first 9 months that are the triggers for reverses to get you over the hump in the fourth quarter? Or just what's the put and take to kind of get you where you need to go? Yes.
I mean as you kind of do the numbers essentially we're looking at a fourth quarter this year that was similar to fourth quarter last year.
And that's -- we always have a seasonally very strong fourth quarter.
Obviously the seasonality at Cessna some seasonality at Bell contributes to that the timing of some of the kind of group payments coming from the military customers in terms of performance-based payments and just other contract activity and we generally see significant inventory liquidation because of that seasonality.
And kind of other seasonality with some of our other businesses result in the fourth quarter.
So kind of we do expect that we will see similar cash performance this fourth quarter as we saw last fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Is there a big tick up in Bell backlog in the fourth quarter? So Bell backlog remember there's always a couple of things that happen with Bell in the military side because we take things into backlog as they're funded.
The one issue that I think we should be sensitive to is that last year was the last year of the funding of the final year of the multiyear one contract okay which generally goes into our backlog in the fourth quarter.
Given that the next funding increment to go into backlog will be associated with the next multiyear contract which I don't believe will be definitized and completed into -- some time in the first even second quarter next year that will come to backlog but I don't believe it'll come to backlog in the fourth quarter like it generally does.
Research Division</strong> But that's not a big year-on-year headwind to cash? No no no.
That wouldn't be calculated [ph] at all in terms [ph] of the order.
I thought you said -- the question was order so...
Research Division</strong> It was yes.
Yes okay.
The order seasonality will be a bit different just because of the dynamic of the next multiyear but that should have no impact on cash.
Next we'll go to the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Scott back to Cessna a lot of questions on what your guidance was for the fourth quarter but I think last you had out there you had Cessna revenue guidance for the full year of $3.4 billion.
Does that still imply? Because if it does it seems like it implies a fairly big delivery number in the fourth quarter.
Yes David Doug here.
I think that our guidance will be more around a $3.3 million [ph] area plus or minus depending on where the exact deliveries come in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then while we're on that subject because I think you said Systems now $100 million to $200 million lower what about Industrial and Bell relative to the prior guidance? I think Bell will come in maybe just a little bit higher than its original guidance of $4.2 billion and obviously at this point will probably exceed the top end of our range of margins maybe by about 50 basis points.
With respect to Industrial I think that we had originally guided to an approximately flat revenue of $2.8 billion.
That'll probably come in about $100 million greater even with the softness in the fourth quarter.
And margins there should be at the top end of our range of 6.5% to 7.5%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on Systems if -- taking your full year guidance it seems like it implies a fourth quarter that's flat to up versus last year as compared to this quarter that was way down.
I mean what changes in the fourth quarter relative to what we saw in the third quarter? Our catching up with some deliveries David.
Yes there were some deliveries that were pushed on the volume side from third quarter to fourth quarter.
Some of those actually will go all the way into 2013 but certainly there's some of that delivery that moved from third to fourth is what contributes to that.
Research Division</strong> Can you tell us which program Scott? Primarily around our TCDL program for the Shadow data link updates.
Research Division</strong> And then last question thinking about 2013 and cash obviously you have a fair amount of debt that matures early in the year.
But thinking beyond that could maybe Frank talk about pension contribution next year and then maybe addressing the dividend and what you're thinking on potential share repurchase for next year? Yes.
Certainly on the pension front we first of all obviously kind of will give guidance in January and we'll talk about that.
We're still going through our budgeting cycle.
We will continue to contribute to the pension plan in 2013 and we will continue to prioritize as you mentioned cash towards debt pay down early in the year where we have a significant amount of maturities coming due.
But we certainly have cash on the balance sheet and cash from operations to satisfy that.
And then from there we'll look at other applications of cash.
And kind of we're just going through our planning cycle right now so it's too early to kind of talk about what that looks like.
And the focus certainly for the first part of the year will continue to be on that debt reduction and contributions to the pension plan.
We talked in our disclosures about kind of over the next number of years continuing to prioritize some amount of cash towards pensions in the amount of kind of $50 million to as much as $400 million a year to continue to fund those liabilities.
And that all depends around in part the interest rate environment and the discount rate environment and therefore kind of the funded position as well as the performance of the portfolio.
So we'll continue to look at that as we plan out next year as we go through the next couple of months.
Next we'll go to the line of Steve Levenson with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us figures what percent of the fleet at Cessna is available for sale? And within that what percent is current models? Steve I have to get the numbers out here because I don't want to quote an incorrect number but there has not been a huge change really since last quarter.
We were still sitting in the 12% total fleet but I don't know that we give it on a model-by-model basis but of the in-production models the number has really been sitting down around the 6% or -- kind of range.
Mid- to low-single digit depending on the model.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's good enough.
And do you find yourself any closer to potential orders for V-22 internationally? I would say that the international V-22 opportunities are in my view still looking very feasible.
There are several that are in process with customers that appear to have a very high level of interest and are requesting information and sort of initiating that process.
These are all FMS programs so they have to go through the LOA/LOR notification -- going through that whole exercise but they are in various states of making progress.
Next we'll go to the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> You -- on the last call you had talked about R&amp;D ticking up in the second half of this year at Cessna and just -- I know you don't want to talk about specific dollars or percent of sales but can you just talk a little bit about how the R&amp;D profile looks now with Latitude Longitude Ten and others? And then year-over-year how should we be thinking about next year's growth in R&amp;D? Well as you said we don't like to get into the numbers on a business-by-business basis.
I would say that like everything else one of the things we're trying to do is make sure that we're being productive and efficient in our R&amp;D spending.
So it is still a very high level of spending compared to revenue.
But I do think we've reached a point where it's probably not a headwind when we think about our percent of sales on a go-forward basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I know we've talked a lot about Cessna but just as you look at the fourth quarter there's really only 10 weeks to go do you have unsold positions remaining this year in this fourth quarter? And is in the Cessna all of the variance between -- in the $0.10 between the low end and the top end of the EPS guidance? Yes there are unsold positions and that's been sort of typical as we've gone through the last few years.
There are obviously a lot of discussions going on with customers.
And so the process we go through to determine what we think the deliveries will be is in fact based on some orders converting to sales within the quarter.
In terms of the variability of the range -- I mean there's a couple of moving parts in there.
Certainly Cessna is part of that.
If we were to come up light on deliveries that would obviously be part of that.
There are still a lot of things on the systems side of the business that have to deliver in the quarter.
And that drives part of that variability.
That's probably the bulk of the range.
But for sure Cessna is always in the market that we've been in a significant piece of the variability of our range.
Next we'll go to the line of Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on the used aircraft sales at Citation I was just wondering is the majority of that related to trade-ins on the large NetJets order that you guys had? And if so I'm just wondering what the profile is going forward.
Should we assume that that $30-something million is kind of constant over the next couple of years? Or do you expect that to come down? Just any kind of color there if you're able to.
So as Frank said I mean there's a portion maybe 2/3 of the used that's going on in inventory in terms of our increase in sales that's associated with trade-in aircraft.
And I think that trade-in aircraft is a bit of the reality of where we are in the market right now because when you talk about relatively short-cycle sales the ability for people to go out and externally market that aircraft wait for it to sell before they take delivery is challenging.
And so as a result we've been doing that and then we take it and turn those aircraft over.
The other part of the used in terms of inventory and obviously some of the sales is the unwind of our CitationAir fractional business.
So those aircraft are put back and we unwind those fractional transactions those also go into our used aircraft and then we turn around and need to go market and sell those aircraft.
So I don't know -- I mean I would say right now that we probably have had more trade-ins on a per aircraft new aircraft transaction than we typically do and we would expect over time to see that number start to come down again.
But yes there are certainly...
LLC Research Division</strong> You'd expect it to be less of a headwind in 2013 is that a fair statement? We would like to see [indiscernible]...
LLC Research Division</strong> Marginalized? 2013.
Yes we would like to see fewer trade-ins.
And just to be clear that $30 million was the year-over-year change in used.
That's not the total used.
The total used is a larger number than that.
Total used...
Right.
That's a -- when I gave the $30-some million number that's a year-over-year comparison that we had in -- greater $30-some greater in used aircraft sales as opposed to new jet sales.
We'll go to the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick one.
What is your year-to-date return on your pension plans approximately through September? Cai I think we are kind of low-teens type number.
All right ladies and gentlemen that concludes our call today.
Thanks for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay starting today at 10:00 a.m.
and going through January 17 2013 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 225827.
For international participants the number is 1 (320) 365-3844.
[Operator Instructions] That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen we'd like to thank you for standing by and welcome to the Textron Fourth Quarter Earnings Teleconference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's recording conference call will be recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host and your facilitators as well as your Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Doug Wilburne.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Steven and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Moving now to fourth quarter results starting with Slide #3.
Revenues in the quarter were $3.4 billion up 3.3% from a year ago.
Income from continuing operations was $0.50 per share compared to a loss of $0.06 in last year's fourth quarter which included net charges of $0.55 per share.
This year's EPS included a previously disclosed $0.06 after-tax charge at Cessna related to an unfavorable business arbitration award.
Also this year's fourth quarter per share results are based on an average share count of 291.6 million shares which reflected the repurchase of 11.1 million shares made over the course of the quarter under our 2007 board authorization.
Moving to cash flow.
Fourth quarter manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was $625 million bringing our full year manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions to $793 million.
Full year pension contributions were $405 million which reflected an additional contribution of $224 million made during the fourth quarter.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
Despite weakness in our automotive and business jet markets we grew manufacturing revenues in the quarter as a result of strong military and commercial demand at Bell along with increased deliveries at Textron Systems E-Z-GO and Jacobsen.
Operationally results were excellent at Bell and in line with our expectations elsewhere.
Obviously we had a couple of disappointments in the quarter with respect to the arbitration charge at Cessna and in other issues that emerged at our fee-for-service UAS program at Systems.
While we've made good progress with the training and interior operational deficiencies we discussed during our third quarter call we have experienced some aircraft engine performance issues in the fourth quarter which resulted in a pretax charge of $19 million.
We believe we've identified the underlying causes that are affecting engine performance and have committed the resources necessary to address these issues.
Looking forward with these charges we've taken we now assume both of these programs in ISR Services will generate 0 profit for 2013.
Positive news at Systems in the quarter was that we had better overall delivery performance resulting in record quarterly revenues and significant deliveries for Shadow retrofit units and Senzor Fuzed Weapons.
Therefore as we look to 2013 we see a return to top line growth and a significant improvement in margins led by growth in UAS revenues primarily from delivery of TCDL systems.
Switching to Industrial.
As expected we saw volume soften in the fourth quarter at Caltex as a result of both European and Chinese automotive markets.
Greenlee was essentially flat while E-Z-GO and Jacobsen both saw good growth reflecting new product introductions and ongoing efforts to expand our distribution channels for customers.
For the year we posted a 10 basis point improvement in margins at Industrial on 4% revenue growth.
Looking at 2013.
With continuing uncertainty in European markets we're taking a conservative view and expect a slight increase in revenue and margins.
Moving to our Finance segment.
The fourth quarter capped a 4-year effort to liquidate our noncap to Finance business.
During the quarter we reduced our total Finance receivables by another $65 million bringing our 2012 liquidations to $820 million and our 4-year total to $8.7 billion.
That leaves only $370 million in noncap to receivables which we will continue to reduce opportunistically.
This is the last call in which we will plan to highlight receivable liquidations as the size of our noncap to portfolio is now essentially immaterial.
Moving now to Cessna.
With the U.S.
presidential election and fiscal uncertainty intensifying this -- during the quarter we saw an unusually slow business jet demand resulting in 53 jet deliveries down from last year's 67.
In total for the year we delivered 181 jets versus 183 last year again reflecting that economic and political volatility that developed during the second half of the year.
Looking toward 2013.
We're planning on deliveries to be modestly higher than 2012 although we do expect a back end-loaded profile.
This is essentially the result of our new model rollout plan this year with new Sovereign first delivering in the third quarter and the M2 and new Ten in the fourth quarter.
We also believe we'll see a degree of uncertainty in the jet market as Washington works through its fiscal challenges but we believe demand will solidify as those uncertainties are reduced.
On the aftermarket front we acquired 2 European service centers one in Zürich Switzerland and one in Düsseldorf Germany bringing our own global owned service center footprint to 15 facilities.
We also signed 2 joint venture agreements in the quarter with our Chinese partners for final assembly and sales activity in China for the Caravan and the XLS plus as we continue to believe that China represents a significant growth market for our Cessna product family.
Longer term we're still expecting overall jet growth to develop as global economies gain momentum emerging markets develop further and our new products roll into the market.
Wrapping up our operations review with Bell.
Execution across programs continue to be outstanding and which reflected our strong margins in the quarter.
We delivered 9 V-22s and 6 H-1s and 65 commercial helicopters versus 7 V-22s 6 H-1s and 62 commercial helicopters in last year's fourth quarter.
For the full year we delivered 39 V-22s and 24 H-1s compared to 34 and 25 last year.
During the quarter we received an undefinitized V-22 contract for lot 17 and long-lead funding for lot 18 which we're hopeful will lead to the signing of a second multiyear procurement contract once the DoD receives authorization to approve new multiyear contracts.
We also continue to actively pursue FMS opportunities for both the V-22 and the H-1.
On the commercial front for the full year we delivered 188 helicopters up 50% from last year's 125 units reflecting our investment in new products and increased focus on the commercial helicopter market.
For example we just received an order for 5 429 helicopters from the Turkish Forestry Department which follows on the Turkish order placed in December of 2001 for 15 429s for their national police force.
The 429 also continues to receive regulatory approvals for additional 500 pounds of lift capability bringing total certification to 14 countries including Canada Brazil China and most recently Chile.
The new 407GX is also selling very well with the recent order for 20 units from Air Methods.
Demand is also solid for our 412EP with contracts recently signed with the Colombian Navy and oil production transport companies in Mexico and Egypt.
Looking to 2013 based on our commercial backlog and an active order pipeline we expect a solid increase in commercial deliveries once again.
In summary despite continued volatility in the global economic environment I think we had a solid year.
Our business units: Textron Systems had a number of important program wins including the Canadian TAPV contract 2 UAS service contracts and the Navy Ship-to-Shore development program.
At Industrial last year's 4% top line growth reflected our continuing investment in new products and distribution.
Cessna improved margins expanded its service footprint with new service centers initiated our China growth strategy announced the new Citation Sovereign and expanded their product launch family with the new long-range Citation Longitude.
Bell achieved record full year performance announced the new 525 Relentless super-medium helicopter won the #1 customer service rating for the 18th year in a row and opened a new joint service facility with Cessna in Singapore.
At the Textron level we continue to strengthen our balance sheet as we liquidated most of the remaining portion of our non-captive to portfolio while generating nearly $800 million in cash for our manufacturing operations.
Consequently we reduced our consolidated net debt by $974 million to $2.6 billion even after making discretionary contributions into our pension plan.
We also returned $272 million to investors through repurchased shares during the fourth quarter.
Yesterday our board approved a new $25 million share repurchase authorization under which we intend to purchase shares to offset the impact of dilution from stock-based compensation and benefit plans as well as for opportunistic capital management purposes.
To wrap up with our 2013 guidance.
We're projecting an overall revenue increase of about 6% and EPS from continuing operations in a range of $2.10 to $2.30.
Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions is expected to be $500 million to $550 million reflecting a significant increase in expected cash income taxes.
With that I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Manufacturing revenue was up $85 million in the quarter generating an increase in manufacturing segment profit of $11 million.
Let's look at how each of the manufacturing segments contributed starting with Cessna.
At Cessna revenues were $901 million in the fourth quarter a decrease of $110 million on a year-over-year basis reflecting a 21% decline in new jet deliveries which more than offset a 12% increase in aftermarket revenues.
We posted an operating profit of $23 million down $37 million from the fourth quarter of 2011 reflecting the $27.4 million in pretax arbitration charge and lower deliveries.
At Bell revenues were up $139 million primarily due to higher volumes.
Segment profit increased $10 million on a higher volume and mix.
At Textron Systems revenues increased $58 million primarily due to higher UAS and SFW volumes partially offset by lower ASV deliveries.
Segment profit increased $44 million reflecting charges of $60 million in last year's fourth quarter and the higher volumes this year which were partially offset by this year's $19 million charge.
Industrial revenues were essentially flat while segment profits decreased $6 million due to cost inflation in excess of price increases.
Moving to the Finance segment.
Credit quality continued to improve with 60-day delinquencies of $90 million $24 million lower than at the end of last quarter.
Non-accrual accounts were $143 million down slightly from $145 million at the end of the third quarter.
The Finance segment reported a profit of $2 million which reflects earnings in the captive business and a break-even results in the non-captive portfolio.
Moving to corporate items.
Corporate expenses were $43 million up from the $39 million last year primarily due to the impact that higher share price had on compensation expense.
Interest expense was $38 million up $11 million from a year ago primarily as a result of $7 million in interest income booked in last year's fourth quarter associated with the collection on an asset sale.
Our tax rate at 27% benefited from the impact of foreign taxes.
2012 results do not include the benefit of recently extended R&amp;D tax credit as that will be recorded in the first quarter of 2013.
Turning now to our 2013 guidance beginning with pension expense and looking at Slide 9.
We're reducing our discount rate assumption which results in an increase of just over $50 million in 2013 pension costs.
Turning to Slide 10.
We're planning an increase -- to net increase R&amp;D expense -- our spending to approximately $515 million or 4% of sales.
We also plan to increase our CapEx this year to about $550 million compared to $480 million last year.
These investments support our new product development and cost improvement strategies.
Now flipping to Slide 11.
Here is a summary of 2013 segment guidance.
We're expecting about 9% revenue growth at Cessna reflecting growth in jets and aftermarket with segment margins in the 4% range.
At Bell we expect overall revenues to grow approximately 5% reflecting a modest increase in our military revenues and good growth in the commercial side of the business.
We're expecting margin headwinds at Bell this year primarily due to lower military margins as well as slightly higher spending on R&amp;D and S&amp;A resulting in a margin range outlook of 13% to 14%.
At Systems we're looking for top line growth of about 9% led by growth in the UAS revenues with segment margins in the range of 9% to 10%.
As Scott mentioned we're expecting revenues and margins to be up slightly at Industrial reflecting continued softness in Europe offset by growth in other regions.
At Finance we expect that captive business will generate profit in the range of $10 million to $15 million in 2013 while our non-captive portfolio is expected to approximately break even.
Moving below the segment line and looking at Slide 12.
We're projecting about $160 million of corporate expense which primarily reflects the impact of an assumed higher share price.
Our interest expense estimate at about $115 million is down primarily as a result of scheduled debt retirements most notably our convertible notes which mature in May.
We're expecting a decrease in our tax rate to about 29% primarily reflecting the impact of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit extension.
We're estimating that credit will provide a total benefit of approximately $22 million in 2013.
Looking at Slide 13.
We're assuming an average 2013 share count of about 281 million shares which reflects the share buybacks we made during the fourth quarter the expected retirement of our convertible bonds and associated collar on May 1 and share repurchases in 2013 sufficient to offset dilution from share-based compensation and benefit programs.
With respect to our EPS guidance take a look at Slide 14 which explains the $0.23 change from our 2012 results of $1.97 to the $2.20 midpoint of our 2013 guidance range.
First there is a headwind of $0.12 due to lower earnings at Finance; the increase in pension costs is $0.11 per share; R&amp;D and depreciation represents a headwind of $0.05; lower interest expense provides a pickup of $0.06; and projected tax rate provides a benefit of $0.07; and the lower share count adds about $0.10.
Therefore we expect our underlying manufacturing business to generate an approximate $0.28 increase in EPS.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Steven we can open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Peter Skibitski of Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions I guess on Cessna.
Scott are you thinking that for the first half of next year maybe deliveries could be down year-over-year just because of what you mentioned the lateness of the new model deliveries? I do.
I mean I think Peter if you think about the year as being up slightly and obviously last year the first half of the year was probably stronger than normal the second half of the year was weaker than normal I would expect more or less the inverse of that this year in part driven by the fact that all those new models are second half-loaded.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you got you.
Okay.
And then can you give us a sense -- I know trade-ins are becoming such a bigger part of the business.
Can you give us a sense of the revenue of trade-ins in 2012 and maybe how you see that going forward? Well I don't know if I'll do the exact number but yes trade-in sales were up on the -- well particularly on the quarter.
And I think generally they will continue to be up.
We have seen a fair bit of trade-in activity Peter.
A lot of that is driven by people that are placing orders and buying aircraft on relatively short cycle and they do need to monetize their existing aircraft for those folks that have aircraft.
So we have been taking a higher ratio in terms of number of trades than we normally would.
I'd say the good news is the aftermarket used aircraft market is doing okay.
It's moving pretty well.
So most aircraft that we're taking in we're turning them over in sort of that 1- to 6-month time frame and I would expect to continue to see that.
So there will be higher churn of used aircraft going through our book but I think that again the market is doing fine and we are able to turn those aircraft around.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay very good very good.
And then in terms of your guidance next year at Cessna you talked about modest unit delivery increases but it looks like about a 10% revenue increase.
Is that just continued aftermarket strength as well as maybe a little bit of a mix shift to the higher price point models? It is.
I think you're going to see sort of low double digit on the aftermarket side and slight gains in both the new aircraft as well as probably an increase sort of reasonably strong increase in the used aircraft market.
Our next question will come from the line of Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question is on the cash flow outlook.
Scott you noted that the higher cash taxes are taking a big bite.
Could you just give it a little bit more context as to is this the year that we get to sort of -- to become a full taxpayer on a cash basis? And any other items that are -- that we should think about in terms of the bridge from 2012 to 2013 cash flow? Well that's really the primary driver so you're right.
I mean I think that we certainly feel we'll be paying our fair share this year in cash taxes.
And that's really been just timing associated with other things over the last few years so we have not paid as much cash tax.
That certainly catches up with us this year.
We're talking about used aircraft.
I do think that we will see some positive cash flow as we work some of the used aircraft balances down.
But other than that it should be relatively straight conversion of NOP [ph] into cash.
Obviously as Frank said we will have some higher CapEx spending this year.
And again that's primarily driven by a number of new product programs that are going on particularly at Bell and Cessna and as a result of some facilities capital that we're spending with Bell as we consolidate what was multiple facilities in the Fort Worth area into principally one location.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You noted that your new models your 3 more new models -- or 1 new model with 2 updates are important to your forecast this year.
Can you speak to how those -- how they're tracking particularly the M2? I was thinking that might be delivered in Q3.
It sounds like Q4.
So is that slipping or is everything on track there? Well first of all the programs are going extremely well.
Flight test activity is underway with all the aircraft.
We have not run into any issues so we're pleased with the performance and how they're doing.
Of course we do have to go through the FAA certification process.
That seems to be tracking reasonably well at this point.
The M2 is one that we'd like to get some third quarter deliveries but I think the way the certification date is going to fall that's going to be difficult to do.
So I think that most if not all will be in the fourth quarter.
But again the program and the product has been well received and it's not having any impact in terms of our expectations for the number of units that we'll ship in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally could you just expound a little bit about upon the Systems and the UAS issue? And I guess specifically is this a continuation of what we saw last quarter or are these discrete and new issues that popped up? No it's a good question.
I mean the issues that we initially ran into on the Services contract were with respect to our ability to get people trained to the appropriate level to be ready for the increase -- basically just the ramp of the program in terms of people going in theater and operating the aircraft.
We put a very robust training process in place and we have not seen any continuation of that.
In fact the off tempo has gone up significantly both at -- or in the UAS program as well as our ISR program so for both customers.
And the good news is on the second program on the ISR Services side we didn't see any training-related issues because we had learned from the initial launch on the MEUAS program the training programs have been effective and worked and as a result we seem to be in good shape even as we added a significant number of resources for ramping those programs up.
What's new unfortunately is that as we started to fly on the first Services contract we have run into what I believe is a number of different issues associated with the propulsion system on that aircraft.
And so we were losing more aircraft than we had in our plan.
We have engaged our folks from Lycoming obviously who are experts.
They've been doing a lot of testing and evaluation.
We believe we understand the critical issues that were resulting in the early failures of these propulsion systems.
We have been able to implement a number of fixes already.
The good news is that we are seeing improved performance in the field in terms of the MEUAS program.
We are not seeing those problems with our second customer again as a result of things that we have learned on the first program.
But at this stage of the game we don't have enough hours really logged on the second program so when we think about estimating our cost to complete we really have to look at the total of the combined programs.
So obviously we're disappointed.
We did not anticipate having these kind of problems associated with the engines.
We've taken significant charges as a result of that but I do think we're seeing progress in terms of our ability to understand exactly what were those problems and put fixes in place that appear to be having an impact in the field.
Our next question will come from the line of Julian Mitchell of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on your Cessna sort of outlook.
I mean your -- if I look at the guidance I mean the incremental margins in Cessna have been running at around about 19% to sort of 20% in the last 2 years.
I guess your guidance implies it stays around that level in 2013.
I just wondered if you felt there may be some more volume leverage given you're in the fairly early part of the recovery and whether that incremental margin is conservative or is it the fact that you think that earnings will be extremely weak in the first half and that's why the incremental margins for the year as a whole are only going to be maybe 18% 19% on your guidance? Well I think Julian part of what you're seeing is there an increase next year in used aircraft as part of that revenue.
And sort of by design the way we typically bring those aircraft in and how we book them those are typically sales at 0 margins.
So that obviously has a dilutive impact on the overall margin rate.
That's principally what guides that number to sort of net out around that 20% -- 19% kind of range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what sort of pricing trend in Cessna does the guidance embed? Flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then lastly just on the Systems business.
If we think about the guide for '13 you're implying a sort of 30%-or-so incremental margin.
How much of that is just coming from normalization following the charges in '12 and how much you're assuming sort of underlying business gets a little bit better on margins? So I think Julian if you -- the way to think about the business is we had guided last year that '12 margins would have been in sort of that 9.5% to 10.5% kind of a range.
If you take out these charges unfortunately with our Services contract that's really where we were.
And I think if you look at next year the reason we guide more in that 9% to 10% range is because we have the revenue associated with those programs basically at 0 margins.
So I think the margin performance on the balance of the business is where we expect it to be and would have been consistent with this year's guidance.
The reason you see a slight decrement to that in terms of our '13 guide is because you do have the revenue associated with those Services contracts and they're 0.
Our next question will come from the line of Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Scott the Cessna backlog is down again sequentially.
I know you guys have discussed how Cessna has shifted from a backlog business to a shorter-cycle business.
But presumably this backlog can't go to 0 and it become just an inter-quarter sales business.
So how much lower can backlog go before you have to lower production? And you sort of alluded to it in your prepared remarks but what's embedded in your 2013 production in terms of how you think orders will compare to production throughout the year? Well I mean look Noah we would certainly like to see some backlog start to build obviously as we introduce and get closer to the launches of things like Latitude and Longitude we would expect to see some build in that area.
We announced the new Sovereign relatively late in the year obviously and not in a great environment in terms of what was going on in the economy.
But I would expect to see a start to build some order book of the new Sovereigns.
But the bottom line is I don't think people should be terribly surprised.
I mean the fourth quarter -- frankly the second half of the year was not particularly strong in the business jet market.
That being said there's no reason to believe that there's going to be a -- that's not going to normalize and we're going to get back to sort of where we felt in the beginning part of 2012.
With respect to production rates again we look at this on a very regular basis and anticipate what the order flow is going to look like based on what's going on with customer activity and that is what is setting our production schedules as opposed to looking at backlog.
This is a classic example.
If you look into 2013 we're guiding to what we believe will be a modest increase in a number of jets.
Obviously that's based on what we see going on in the market what our anticipation is in terms of order flow.
It takes into consideration though as we set production rates how many aircraft went from '12 to '13.
As you know we've been trying to make sure that we're forecasting this very accurately.
There's no question that we would have expected higher sales in both the third and fourth quarter than what we actually saw and we've adjusted our production rates in 2013 accordingly.
But we still believe if you look at the market you see what's going on with customer activity where we believe the cycle is that we still think it's appropriate to build towards a modest increase in deliveries in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that's helpful.
And can I interpret that to mean we should expect Cessna backlog to continue to decline in the first half and then potentially start to build in the second half given everything you just said? No no.
Look we're guessing it obviously right? So yes I think as we get closer to making deliveries in having the availability of the new Sovereigns that I would expect to see some order book built for that product.
We have a limited number of Sovereigns to sell here in the next few months because we've stopped production of the Sovereigns right? There's only a few aircraft that are left frankly.
So as we start to talk customers about Sovereigns they're all going to be moving into aircraft that are not going to be available for delivery until third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can ask one more if I'm looking at your Slide 11 the segment revenue and margin outlook.
If you had to identify the one number on here that has the most upside potential and the one number on here you're the most concerned with to the downside what would those be? Well yes I'm always most concerned about Cessna just because the sensitivity around what's going on in the market.
We don't have a whole lot of control over what the market is doing.
And as you know the backlog it's not something we're  -- we can just ride the backlog.
It does depend on orders and conversion to sales.
So that's I would say probably the highest risk item.
But as you guys know we have over the last year few years tended to over-perform at Bell.
I'm sure people will think that there's over-performance opportunity at Bell.
I think we can probably push Bell towards the top of the range.
But we are going to have -- we're stopping the ramp here right? So the ramp on the V-22s and the H-1s is kind of coming to its conclusion so I don't see a lot of leverage on increased volume and we are seeing continued growth on the commercial side of the business.
And how that mix plays out will largely impact I think what opportunity we would have to outperform on the Bell side.
Our next question will come from the line of Mr.
Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> I just wondered if we can just delve a little further into Cessna margins in the quarter.
Was there any particular or unusual items with used aircraft gains or other adjustments or was that a good representation of what was going on just operationally in the business? I think it's pretty representative of what was going on operationally in the business.
There was a little bit higher sales in terms of used aircraft on a year-over-year basis but not a huge number.
And obviously the thing that really impacted us the most Jeff was the arbitration settlement at $27 million.
So you put that back in there I mean I think what the team has done frankly as I said obviously we had lower revenue lower jet -- new jet deliveries than we would have expected.
And I think what you're seeing is the team's doing a nice job on costs.
They're doing a nice job on efficiencies within the business.
And we moved some volume through there.
I think the guys are ready to make it a much more profitable business.
LLC</strong> Yes that's certainly my point.
I mean revenues were down $200 million and you got a high mix of Mustangs and basically held margins flat year-over-year plus or minus a few basis points.
Is there something to read into the Mustang strength? If you look at the historical relationship between business jets and profits it has broken down where certainly the lead lag is extended relative to prior cycles.
Is there something going on to read into Mustangs being actually reasonably decent and maybe strong here in terms of just the lower end of the market actually firming up? Jeff it's difficult to say.
I mean I really -- to be honest with you as we go from quarter-to-quarter it seems we see moments in time where the lower end of the market be it Mustangs or CJs seems like there's more inquiry and more demand.
And then we have quarters where it seems to be more on the Sovereigns and the XLS side.
So I think the market is still a little bit skittish so I don't know that I would look at one or the other.
It really does seem to swing as we go through the year.
It's peculiar that we seem to see spikes in interest in different sizes and different classes of aircraft but I can't say that I've been able to figure out how to correlate that to anything.
LLC</strong> Yes.
And then just on kind of the whole production question back to that.
You finished the year strong on cash flow.
It does look like inventory did not decline as much sequentially as it typically does.
Is there a dozen or so whitetails or maybe they're greentails maybe they're in whip or something but is there a little bit of backup in the system to think about as we move into the first quarter? Yes there is.
I mean without a doubt we would have expected more fourth quarter sales at Cessna and those aircraft which really are sort of the greentail.
I mean obviously as we are working around customers we focus our completion center activity around the demand that is there.
But there's no question there's more inventory tied up in that -- that latter stages of whip and going into the completion center than we would have expected.
We always have had these discussions around the fact that we are building to a forecast and that's what we're going to continue to do.
We've generally speaking been about where we expected.
There's no doubt we were light in terms of sales activity in the fourth quarter.
But again it does take a bit of a hit on the inventory side but these are perfectly good aircraft.
And obviously we're selling them as we speak.
So it's more of an issue of looking forward and adjusting what we need to do in terms of 2013 production to accommodate the fact that we did have more whip that rolled from '12 into '13.
LLC</strong> And just a quick one for Frank if you have the number.
What -- where did you end up on just your final pension funded status for the year? Yes we're at a deficit of about $1.3 billion.
So the obligation is about $7 billion and the assets at $5.7 billion or so.
Our next question will come from the line of Jason Gursky of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Scott you mentioned that the pricing assumption for this year at Cessna is flat.
Can you let us know whether that represents an improvement relative to what you saw in all of 2012 and particularly the fourth quarter? I'd say that price has been relatively flat.
We've seen some models better than others.
I would say frankly in the fourth quarter we certainly had some opportunities to sell some aircraft that would have reflected some significant downward pricing.
I mean people are trying to play that game.
And I think our decision was we're going to walk away from some of that.
So part of the behavior here in terms of pricing I think does have to get out of trying to move aircraft and that's behavior we're trying to see.
So there's no question there were few aircraft that could have resulted in negative pricing in the quarter that we're just not going to do.
So but I'd say generally speaking it has been flattish.
And as we said earlier that's kind of how we're thinking about it in terms of how we guide into next year.
The map on this is -- Jason the map on this is a little bit not straightforward because we got the new Sovereign coming in and the M2.
So how you kind of look at that versus last year becomes definitional.
But we'll expect better pricing on those 2 relative to what's been happening generically otherwise.
Research Division</strong> Yes I agree.
No it is helpful to look at it on an apples-to-apples basis I hear you.
And then Frank in your prepared remarks and maybe it was in response to a question you suggested that there was some cost inflation in the Industrial division that hurt margins on a year-on-year basis.
Do you have any numbers to back that up or you could provide to us? And then can you describe the types of things which you're doing to help offset any of those types of headwinds? Yes.
I mean it was really year-over-year on a quarterly basis.
And what -- we typically do see some kind of inflationary headwind relative to price particularly the Caltex business and we look to offset that with performance.
And so that can kind of jump around quarter-to-quarter.
We also under our Caltex contracts recover some elements of cost inflation but there can be a lag to doing that.
And so we do get some quarterly fluctuation in that and so we just had some fourth quarter fluctuation.
But generally between kind of performance and price we're able to offset the inflation and that's what you'd see if you look at the full-year results for Industrial.
And then for the quarter it was between $6 million and $7 million yes but it was not a big number.
Our next question will come from the line of Robert Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Scott on the Cessna front you mentioned that you've been getting things done on the used market.
I was wondering if you've been seeing any improvement over the last 3 months in the used pricing or the used fleet that's out there? Yes we have seen better deals on pricing in the used market so -- and I think that that just in terms of publicly available data that's out there I think it would corroborate that people are seeing a little bit of an uptick in used aircraft market.
It's not overwhelming.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
And what about the fleet for sale has that changed at all? It's continuing to marginally drop not a huge change though.
It's around 12%.
And we're just -- I mean we continue to see very good turnover.
As I said earlier most of aircraft that we're bringing in in a 1- to 6-month cycle we're moving them back out.
So from our perspective obviously the rate of turn to move these things is what's most important because we are basically providing a service to our customer to modify that aircraft allow them to get a new aircraft and then we want to move that aircraft on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And then at Bell you mentioned about V-22 you've had some success in signing up further lots.
But it looks like the multiyear has slipped out.
If the sequester kicks in does that impact the ability of the Marine Corps to sign up to this multiyear? And at what point would you start to get concerned if it doesn't get signed? Well the issue with the multiyear is that as long as we're operating under a CR they do not have authority to sign multiyear contracts.
There was actually an attempt in -- to put that in and make an exemption so that you could do multiyear and that did not go through.
So they had no authority to sign any multiyear contracts be it our programs or any other programs.
So it really has to do with getting legislation passed that actually gives them a budget and gives them budget authority to do multiyear contracts.
LLC Research Division</strong> But in terms of your timing if we were still here in the middle of the year would you start to have problems with long lead items? No.
So what they've done is they've gone ahead and awarded an undefinitized contract for lot 17 which would be the first lot of the next multiyear as well as the long lead material procurement for lot 18 which would be the second year of the multiyear.
So because they do have authority under the CR to award individual contracts on a year-over-year basis they are continuing to do that.
So what you're seeing with the award of lot 17 and the award of long lead material under lot 18 is on schedule and gives us the ability to deliver to what the multiyear plan would be.
But just because of their contracting authority they can only do it on a year-by-year basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And are the terms on that comparable to what you've got on your current multiyear? Well there was a price negotiation that was undertaken and is concluded with respect to the next multiyear.
Certainly the margins as part of that negotiation have been reduced as you would expect normally happens when you've driven a lot of productivity and you end up with another contract.
The issue of course is with a multiyear deal now it's incumbent upon us to go try to figure out how you get those margins back to where they were.
Our next question will come from the line of George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
Scott I wanted to -- at Bell the guidance to 13% to 14% margin where you almost did 15% in '12 and you're one year closer to the end of the current multiyear with the V-22 you think you'd get a margin pickup are you being conservative or is the mix between commercial going to be that much higher that you're figuring there's a lower margin? And if you could just go through what was your commercial book-to-bill in '12 and kind of what are you looking for in '13? Well on the military side in terms of delivery George it's going to be relatively flat on the V-22 and H-1 front and it is increasing.
Again we think we'll see another year of solid growth in terms of increases in the number of commercial deliveries.
Also as I said as we increase our R&amp;D spending and we stop having the leverage on the military side of increasing those numbers our costs are somewhat higher in terms of what's embedded in overhead rates and therefore that is putting some pressure even on the military margin rates on a year-over-year basis.
Okay.
And then one on Textron Systems.
I mean where is the growth actually coming from? I mean it looks your guidance are like a little over 9% up year-over-year and in military business that most people will be down 5% on average.
And the margin there it seemed a little aggressive to me given that the growth is probably coming from the TAPV some of the 0 -- low to 0 margin programs.
So just wondering where you're getting the profit guidance there? Well we expect to see increased deliveries in a number of areas in our UAV business and our -- I would expect to see some increased revenue in our Sensor Fuzed Weapon business.
The TAPV and the Ship-to-Shore which of course are still in the early stages and the development phases do not contribute a lot of revenue in terms of deliveries in 2013.
So it's really the core parts of SFW and the UAV business that we expect to see driving revenue growth.
And then just one on Cessna.
Did you see any difference in the bookings after the election versus prior to the election or in January? Have you seen any difference where they did not change the depreciation rules so there wasn't any adverse impact on general aviation? Well George unfortunately we were hoping to see a bit of an uptick after the election got behind us.
I would say that didn't happen and from -- at least from our perspective and certainly talking to our customers.
All the stuff that was going on with the so-called fiscal cliff most people chose to sort of wait that out and so they did.
So the normal -- I mean frankly the number of customers that we have sort of in the discussion phase all look very normal.
The amount of activity going on are all very normal.
But the mess that happened as we went through December I think -- November December just led people to say they'd stand back.
So we have seen delivery.
We have seen orders obviously here as we've gone into the beginning of the year.
I'd say we probably have had more order activities than we're used to seeing right at the beginning of January but I would say that's probably a result of people waiting out to see what was going to happen.
Remember they didn't come to a conclusion and decide at least what they were going -- what little they were going to do on the fiscal cliff until beginning of January.
So that clearly was a problem.
Okay.
But the fact that the tax laws were effectively not changed for general aviation did that provide a little bit of a trigger here you think in terms of your comment that you're seeing a little better order activity here in early part of January? George I always think the bonus depreciation is sort of beneficial but on the fringe right? It's not going to cause somebody to buy an aircraft or to upgrade their aircraft.
I mean you've always been looking at a 5-year depreciation schedule here.
So whether you're doing 20% a year over a 5-year period or whether you get half in year 1 it's not a huge issue.
So if people have room in tax we've seen that drive their behavior.
As you know we always tend to see a stronger fourth quarter because people have always wanted to get that first year depreciation in the current tax year and so that's always driven some cyclicality into this business.
But the difference between 50% 20% yes beneficial but I still believe sort of on the margins.
People don't buy an aircraft because of tax depreciation in terms of bonus.
Our next question will come from the line of Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Quick -- a couple of quick clarifications and then a question.
Just briefly on the Cessna margin for next year if we -- obviously we add back the arbitration charge from the quarter you'll be for this year close to the low end of where the guidance is for next year.
And as you sort of go through the headwinds and tailwinds for next year it would seem that used aircraft will be a headwind R&amp;D is potentially a headwind mix is potentially a headwind but volume is your tailwind.
Is there any -- are there any other tailwinds there other than just improved performance out of the team that you're looking to to see the margins come in a little bit better? No I think you've capped it pretty well.
Mix is relatively neutral.
We continue -- I think if we look at our forecast for the year the mix won't help or hurt a whole lot.
Obviously some new models coming in is beneficial to us particularly with the Sovereign block point in the latter half of the year.
So the headwinds really are increased used which does not carry much volume or margin with it a little bit of R&amp;D headwind.
But primarily this is going to be how does the team do operationally.
And again I think our momentum going into the year is good.
The activities that Scott and the team have been driving in terms of operational efficiencies are working.
And we get some additional volume obviously that will be a good leverage.
Research Division</strong> And presumably aftermarket is a bit of a mix benefit as well so...
Yes it is.
And I think we'll see again solid growth in the aftermarket.
Research Division</strong> Great.
With respect to Bell and the margin in Q4 was there anything to note in terms of cumulative catch-up that benefited the margin to speak of? Yes there's always some cume catch in terms of the program.
You see accounting in the quarter.
I think in terms of year-over-year we had a pretty tough comp.
We have very good mix of commercial aircraft in the fourth quarter a year ago.
We probably did not have as good a mix in terms of the types of commercial aircraft that shipped in the fourth quarter this year.
But overall over the span of the year obviously it was a very good year on the commercial side and I think we'll see that momentum continue into '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And lastly on the repurchases and the outlook for that for next year or for 2013.
I wondered if you might share some detail on the decision repurchases versus dividends and why you chose what you chose in terms of opportunistic capital deployment on repurchases instead of maybe upping the dividend? Well I mean there's a couple of things going on.
Obviously one which we mentioned is we feel like it's appropriate to be offsetting the dilution associated with the employee compensation and benefit plans the 401(k) matching and things of that nature and so that accounts for us somewhere in the neighborhood of a few million shares a year.
And so that's one thing that we want to make sure that we offset.
In terms of summer activity this year we know we have a convertible coming up here in May and we want to try to be offsetting some of the dilution associated with the retirement of that instrument.
And in terms of going forward again we'll continue -- as a minimum on the anti-dilutive offsets and based on our perspective in terms of the company and where stock is what do we think is in the best interest of the shareholder.
And I think at this stage in the game our conclusion was allocating some of that cash to retiring some of the shares is probably the most share-enhancing strategy in terms of capital deployment right now.
Our next question will come from the line of Cai Von Rumohr of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Last year on the fourth quarter call you projected R&amp;D in 2012 at $590 million.
You just reported net R&amp;D of $504 million.
So what's the difference between R&amp;D and net R&amp;D? And on a net basis what did the R&amp;D do in 2012 and where was it up if it was up? So Cai so the R&amp;D was up.
It was up principally driven in Bell.
At Cessna we were not up as much as we probably originally thought.
That's driven primarily by the fact that if you look at our programs and the fact that we were taking Sovereigns basically out of production to bring in the new one and a number of other changes we made and particularly around deciding to do the Longitude program and therefore not a couple of the things that were more shorter-term upgrade programs we were able to shift a lot of our engineering resource from what would normally be sustaining minor change things into our primary new product programs.
So we were able to staff a lot of those major programs without having to increase a lot of our R&amp;D dollars.
We would expect the same to continue to next year.
So we'll see modest increases in R&amp;D and again principally driven by increases at Bell and some increases at Cessna as we ramp up those programs.
In terms of this net R&amp;D we're trying to show what is the true headwind if you will from an EPS perspective as opposed to not sort of all engineering as opposed to necessarily the R&amp;D tax credit-type things that benefit or specifically fit the R&amp;D definition.
So it's reflective of all our engineering.
Because what basically happened Cai is we're letting table a lot of our engineering that really is associated with not historically R&amp;D but a lot more sustaining engineering and instead move those funds and resources into our new product programs.
Just to be clear on the net versus what we called R&amp;D before they're the same.
We just put the word net in there to clarify that it does not include those items that are reimbursed by third parties like the government.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay but so you reported $504 million.
The year before you reported $484 million.
You were going to be up $100 million.
You were only up $20 million is that correct? That's right.
And that's principally driven as I said by the fact that we've been able to take a lot of our other engineering resource which was not engaged in R&amp;D programs it was doing sustaining  develop -- sustaining support of our production programs and moved a lot of that resource into the R&amp;D area.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then as you look at the mix then in 2013 you said it would be neutral.
But I mean should we assume I mean that Mustangs might be flat to down in the mix? I would assume that M2s will be up plus in the mix that Sovereigns and the Tens would be up or is that incorrect because they go toward the end of the year is that likely not to benefit 2013 that much? Well I think if you look at it Cai so absolutely our view would be that Mustangs will be down.
M2s obviously will -- are new.
So I think if you look at volumes of what was Mustang in that sort of the lighter end of the market will be made up this year of instead of just Mustangs it'll be a combination of Mustangs and M2s.
So there's a slight mix shift up there okay but then you're talking about $3.2 million aircraft versus $4.5 million aircraft so in the grand scheme of things it doesn't change the mix shift very much from the perspective of the overall mix of the business.
We will have the Sovereign deliveries but I think if you look at combined Sovereign and Ten sales last year versus this year they are relatively equivalent.
And then you look at the balance of the portfolio through the CJs and the XLSs again it's going to be roughly a similar kind of number.
So that's why I say I don't think you're going to see a huge mix shift in terms of the overall average dollar waiting if you will per aircraft in 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's very good.
But you did mention that the Sovereign and the Ten happen in the second half.
So is the fact that the volume is relatively flat a function of when the deliveries begin and that therefore the market allowing 2014 should be an up year or is it just that demand is essentially flat? Well so I mean we see demand as being relatively flat.
Obviously we'd like to think that 2014 will be an up year but that's a guidance question for another 364 days from now.
But yes I mean it really is principally driven by demand at this stage of the game Cai.
Our next question in queue will come from the line of Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question on Cessna.
Given the back-end load of the deliveries in 2013 I mean the usual question is will it be profitable in the first quarter.
I guess the question here is will it be profitable in the first half given 3Q-4Q mix? And then CJ4s are they a pressure point? Do they come off kind of being a new product? And how much per pressure point if at all? Well I think that we would certainly expect to see profitability in the first half of the year.
And CJ4 I don't expect -- in fact I think if we look at year-over-year volumes look like they're pretty flat on CJ4s.
So it's only an aircraft that's been in the market for a few years.
It's still doing very well from a competitive standpoint.
It's performing -- the performance is outstanding.
Customers are very happy with it.
So it continues to be frankly probably the most from a volume standpoint probably the most popular aircraft we have in our portfolio right now.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one follow-up.
On aftermarket at Cessna what was the growth in the quarter? And what's the expectation implied for '13? The Cessna aftermarket was 12% in the quarter and it's now kind of 10-ish percent for next year.
Our next question will come from the line of Brian Jacoby of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one on the upcoming debt maturities at both the parent company and PIMCO what's your plans there? It looks like you could handle it with cash but obviously the markets are pretty attractive from a debt funding perspective.
Yes the way we think about the balance sheet is that we will handle those with cash.
And kind of with that debt pay down we will have a total debt level that is a level that we think is the right type of level for the business in its current size.
And so the intent would be to pay that down and not refinance it.
Our next question will come from the line of Steve Levenson of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You've answered pretty much all the questions we had.
But in terms of the percentage to fleet for sale can you say about how much is current models and what you don't think is an issue? I'm sorry I haven't looked at that data.
Just recently it's been -- things have been fairly stable in terms of available for sale.
So I think as Doug said with the whole fleets around 12% kind of a number as we look at that data through the course of the year the models are still in production relatively recent aircraft has really been more in the low to mid-single digit in terms of percent per sale.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with the changes at Hawker Beechcraft are you seeing any change in the market picking up any business or are those used jets causing an issue? I guess we'll have to wait to see all of the gamma numbers here.
But I guess my sense is in terms of new aircraft clearly we feel we've been picking up some share over the course of the year.
Part of that obviously is Hawker going out of the market and it was a pretty tough year when you have a competitor that's exiting a business line.
But I don't think there's lots of aircraft left so I would expect that not to be much of an issue on a going-forward basis.
Our last question will come from the line of Ronald Epstein of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Kristine Liwag calling in for Ron Epstein.
Our question is how many whitetails or greentails do you have at Cessna? We don't do the greentail or whitetail number specifically.
Just in terms of direction as I said we clearly would have expected some additional sales in Q4 that we did not see given everything going on.
But as I said in the past we're trying to build or forecast and estimate it as well as we can.
The only downside risk if you're off on that number is you take a little bit of inventory risk and that's exactly what we did and what happened.
And those aircraft will obviously sell off here in the very near future.
Okay ladies and gentlemen that concludes our call.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen on behalf of today's panel I'd like to thank you for your participation in today's conference call.
Thank you for using AT&amp;T.
Have a wonderful day.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Textron First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Doug Wilburne Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Brad and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to mention we'll be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Moving now to first quarter results starting with Slide #3.
Revenues in the quarter were $2.9 billion approximately flat with the year ago.
Income from continuing operations was $0.40 per share compared to earnings per share of $0.41 in the first quarter of 2012.
Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was a $425 million use of cash.
First quarter pension contributions were $140 million.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
Manufacturing revenues were up slightly in the quarter based on strong commercial demand of Bell increased deliveries of Textron Systems and sales growth at E-Z-GO.
Unfortunately demand for business jets was soft again this quarter.
We were hopeful that demand would recover as the impact of last year's election and fiscal uncertainties were behind us.
We also thought the recent strength in U.S.
equity markets would have supported improved business confidence and therefore business jet demand.
Sales dialogue and customer recruit was reasonably active during the quarter.
However customers especially in the light jet segment who tend to be small business owners continue to defer purchase decisions reflecting continued concerns about their financial outlook.
As a result we delivered 32 new jets in the quarter down from 38 a year ago resulting in a segment loss in the quarter of $8 million.
On the positive side we continue to see good volume in the used market leading to a significant increase in used jet sales which resulted in higher overall Cessna revenue despite lower new deliveries.
Looking forward given the lack of recovery in the business jet market we're reducing our 2013 business jet delivery outlook and now expect that deliveries will be down this year compared to 2012.
This reflects our expectations for lower deliveries in the light category partially offset by growth in the midsized category.
Accordingly we're adjusting our production schedules and implementing other appropriate cost actions at Cessna.
In addition we've initiated a salary workforce reduction program the largest portion of which is a voluntary separation plan.
While we are taking these immediate actions we believe the global business market has significant long-term growth potential and we remain committed to our new product plans which include the introduction of the M2 and the new Sovereign and Citation X models later this year as well as Latitude in 2015 and the Longitude in 2017.
Moving now to our finance segments.
Slowness in the business jet market resulted in only a few new loan originations during the quarter.
However segment profit benefited from good performance in our captive portfolio and a number of small asset transactions in our non-captive business.
Shifting to industrial.
We saw lower volumes in the quarter at Caltex as growth in North America was more than offset by weakness in both the European and Asian automotive markets.
Greenlee and Jacobsen were down slightly reflecting weakness in European markets while E-Z-GO saw good growth reflecting the success of new product introductions.
Moving to systems.
Revenues were up reflecting growth in our UAS and weapons and sensor product lines.
We continue to see operational improvement in our fee-for-service UAS programs but as previously discussed these are essentially break-even programs for us at this time.
Finishing with Bell operational results reflected good program execution in both military and commercial product lines.
We did experience a decline in aftermarket deliveries during the quarter.
This a result of the conversion to a new ERP system.
I would note that the underlying aftermarket order flow actually remained quite strong.
The global commercial original equipment demand environment also remained strong as we delivered 40 commercial helicopters in the first quarter versus 30 in last year's first quarter.
We also had a very good showing at this year's Heli-Expo announcing 2 new products the Bell 412 EPI and the Bell 407 GT.
The new 412 EPI includes a fully integrated glass flight deck and 1 400-pound increase in maximum hot and high payload capacity.
These are significant enhancements to the value of what is already one of Bell's most versatile and reliable helicopters and the customer response so far has been very positive.
Likewise the new Bell 407 GT which is an armed version of the 407GX incorporates an integrated glass cockpit and a fully configurable weapon system.
We believe the GT will be an effective and affordable platform for foreign military and paramilitary applications.
We also featured our new Relentless 525 flight simulator at HAI demonstrating the steady progress we're making toward first flight next year.
Overall we had a very successful show capped by the signing of 50 new commercial orders including an agreement with Air Medical Group to deliver 30 helicopters over the next several years.
During the quarter the 429 model continued to add jurisdictions certifying a 500-pound increase in useful load.
The most recent came from Indonesia an important and growing helicopter market making it the 17th country to approve the increased maximum gross weight.
In the military business we delivered 9 V-22s and 6 H-1s in the quarter consistent with our customers' quarterly delivery schedules but down slightly compared to 10 V-22s and 7 H-1s in last year's first quarter.
We are on track to deliver 40 V-22s and 25 H-1s in total this year.
We also delivered our 100th H-1 marking an important milestone toward fulfilling the total program record of 349 units.
We also delivered the first HMX V-22 units which will serve presidential and other special missions.
And finally at last week's Army Aviation Association of America meeting in Fort Worth we introduced the V280 Valor as our entry to the Army's request for joint multi-role future vertical lift aircraft.
The Valor concept is a third-generation tiltrotor featuring a fixed engine configuration with a target cruise speed of 280 knots and a combat range of up to 800 nautical miles.
We believe this platform will prove to be the highest performance most cost-effective solution to the Army's future mission requirements.
To wrap up despite a challenging first quarter most of our businesses were on track for a solid year with the notable exception of Cessna which necessitated a change in our operational plans and our overall outlook.
On this basis we're reducing our guidance for earnings per share from continuing operations to a range of $1.90 to $2.10.
We're also lowering projected cash flow from continuing operations of the manufacturing group before pension contributions to about $400 million as a result of the lower expected Citation deliveries.
We remain focused on continuing to improve our operational execution and cost productivity while at the same time we're also committed to continue our investments in new products and sales capabilities to grow the business over the long term.
With that I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Segment profit in the quarter was $235 million down $24 million from the first quarter of 2012 on approximately flat revenues.
Let's look at how each of the segments contributed starting with Cessna.
At Cessna revenues were up $39 million from this period last year primarily the result of $81 million increase in preowned aircraft sales.
We also had an $18 million or about 9% increase in aftermarket revenues.
The segment had a loss of $8 million compared to a loss of $6 million a year ago.
This reflected lower new jet deliveries and pricing including the impact of selling our 5 remaining legacy Sovereigns and higher pension cost partially offset by an improvement in mix.
Looking to the second quarter keep in mind that there will be no new Sovereign or X deliveries and we expect to record costs of about $25 million for the workforce action that Scott discussed.
At Bell revenues were down $45 million on decreased V-22 and H-1 deliveries and lower commercial aftermarket sales partially offset by increased commercial unit sales.
Segment profit decreased $16 million from the first quarter in 2012 primarily reflecting the lower overall volumes.
At Textron Systems revenues were up $52 million reflecting higher UAS and weapons volumes.
Segment profit increased $3 million.
Industrial revenues decreased $28 million reflecting lower automotive volumes and a $4 million negative foreign exchange impact.
Segment profit decreased $16 million mainly due to lower volumes and unfavorable mix.
Moving to Finance.
Revenues decreased $19 million from last year's first quarter reflecting lower finance receivables while segment profit was up $7 million.
Credit performance remained relatively steady during the quarter with non-accruals of $147 million and 60-day delinquencies of $80 million.
Lastly moving to corporate items.
Corporate expenses were $55 million and we remain on track for our full year forecast of about $160 million.
Interest expense was $37 million up $2 million from a year ago.
On the tax line our rate reflected benefits primarily related to the impact of the reenacted U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit.
We're still on track for our original full year tax guidance of 29%.
Moving to our consolidated cash flows which is the last schedule attached to our press release.
We ended the quarter with $791 million in consolidated cash down $622 million from the end of the fourth quarter.
The drawdown in cash in the quarter reflected a net reduction in debt of $236 million; inventory increases primarily at Bell; $140 million in contributions to our pension plans; slower payments on military contracts; and seasonal incentive compensation payments.
During the second quarter we will retire $250 million principal amount remaining on our convert at the Textron level and we have $371 million scheduled debt repayments at TFC.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
So Brad we can open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to our first question from Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Scott I was wondering if you'd kick off with Cessna.
Last quarter you commented that there had been a pickup in used activity and also used pricing.
Now it seems used activity has continued in Q1.
I was wondering if you could clarify how the used pricing has progressed.
Rob I'd say the pricing has been pretty flat.
I mean the market is -- definitely continued to be strong in terms of the number of transactions.
Obviously you see that in our numbers this quarter as we've sold a lot of aircraft.
I think the market -- the used market in total continues to move.
I think that's representative.
We've seen a little bit of a tick-down again in terms of used available for sale.
But I would say we still see it as pretty challenged in terms of the pricing itself there in the used market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly on Cessna you said it's going to be down this year in terms of new deliveries.
I was wondering if you could give us an idea of just about how much it's going to be down.
Well look I mean we try to stay away from exact numbers on this Rob.
But I think when you look at how we would guide we're probably talking about a couple of hundred million dollars or so on the top line.
It's mostly in the light jet markets.
So I'd say from there you can kind of probably make reasonable estimations in terms of the number of aircraft that we're talking about cutting back.
And that's really kind of our revised forecast as much as we hate doing this.
And by the way we're still out there selling hard.
I mean we're going to do everything we can do to sell aircraft.
We're pretty happy I think with the effectiveness of what our sales teams are doing.
I think our share feels good.
But we just have to be open about the fact that that light market just hasn't recovered at this point contrary to our expectations.
And so we're going to scale back some of the production and reduce the number of aircraft that are out there in that space because I think the demand just isn't there.
And our next question is going to come from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the reduction in the cash flow guidance which you said was attributable to the lower Citation deliveries.
Does that reflect a more sizable cut to your anticipated deliveries versus production? How should we think about the mismatch there and if that's really just inventory that will build up over the course of the year? Yes it just really is inventory.
The challenge obviously as we sit here at this time of the year is to make a substantive change to the production schedule on those aircraft.
An awful lot of that material is already in-house.
Clearly one of the things that we'll do as we go through the production change is we'll build things out to logical points in their build cycle so those aircraft are sort of in an appropriate stage of work in progress before we shut down various portions of the production line.
And that just means we're going to have inventory clearly that's going to roll over to the end of the year as opposed to going out in sold aircraft.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with respect to the Cessna margin in your previous guidance it looks like the cost actions are worth about 1% but you've lowered the guidance by $0.20.
So if it's all related to Cessna it sort of implies margins that are closer to breakeven.
Is that correct? It's principally related -- almost all of the $0.20 is related to Cessna that's correct.
And our next question is going to come from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Scott I wondered if you could help me think about backlog.
I know we've asked this before and the discussion is that it's just not as important right now.
But first Cessna specifically.
The Cessna backlog was actually more stable in the quarter than it's been in a while.
I mean implied dollar bookings and dollar book-to-bill was as high as it's been in a while.
Can you just talk about what the moving pieces were in that backlog and how it's possible that you are kind of okay with production levels while backlog kept coming down and now that it's sort of finally seeing some stabilization that's driving the production level decrease? Well Noah look we've always -- first of all if you look at backlog in the quarter I mean basically what it reflects is that we're taking orders and delivering in the same quarter.
So there's not a whole lot of stuff going in and out of backlog right? You're taking an order for an aircraft and you deliver the aircraft so there's not a whole lot of change going on in the backlog.
In terms of...
Research Division</strong> But [indiscernible] right? And the degree to which that happened in the quarter was at least less than it's been over the past several quarters right? I mean that's been the mode that we've been in right? So I mean we have been obviously building to a forecast as opposed to building a backlog for the last several years.
Our initial intent as we went into this year is given the dynamics that we saw in the marketplace that we would start to see stronger demand than we saw in the second half of last year in terms of the lights and we're just not seeing that manifest.
So at this point I think it's appropriate for us to say we're not seeing that volume and we just don't see the number of customer discussions going on that we believe are going to come to closure that would justify continuing at that build rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess I'm also wondering is this very specifically Mustang? Because when I look at the deliveries in the quarter that was very light whereas some of the bigger metal or a lot of the bigger metal was really kind of flat or even up year-over-year.
But I know you don't make much money on those and you're lowering the margin outlook so that would imply it's not just Mustang.
I know you don't to want to get specific on aircraft but can you...
Well it's okay.
I mean when we talk about the light category we're talking about Mustang through the CJ4.
So -- and look part of the dynamic is when you look at what's going on in the marketplace there is obviously tighter pricing here as well right? I mean so I think that one of the things that we see that's becoming more and more difficult and sort of more and more difficult here in the first quarter is that in order for transactions to happen there are expectations of lower and lower price.
And I get to a point here where we're not going to play that game anymore so we're going to take some of the capacity out of what's out there trying to transact because we're not going to do deals at price levels that people seem to think that our level is -- has to be for them to make the transaction happen.
Research Division</strong> Have some of the aircraft beyond Mustang through CJ4 been a little better than you expected or no? I don't know that they're better than we would've expected.
The XLSs have been doing well.
We did sell the last 5 Sovereigns that we had of the pre-block-point-change model.
That of course is never a particularly strong pricing environment when you're trying to get that lesser-grade aircraft.
But it's -- people know they're buying the last of that model type.
So I think that XLS activity was good.
And obviously there's a lot of discussion going on around the block point change for the Sovereign and some orders we're starting to take for that.
So again I -- we really do see -- the market behavior in that medium segment has been more consistent with our expectations whereas the light side has been weaker.
And again it just seems for transactions to happen it's at a price point that I don't think we want to play.
And we'll go on to the next line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Scott on Cessna just one more there.
What are your customers telling your sales force exactly as to why activity -- why does your sales team believe that activity did have a slower start to the year than you were expecting a couple of months ago? Well Joe I mean there's kind of noise all over the place right? There's -- These are mostly small business guys so their taxes have gone up.
They read all the political nonsense all this corporate jet loopholes which by the way they mean depreciation which I'm not sure why that's a loophole since it's actually in the tax code and always has been.
You've got this new proposal on user fees which I think is very unlikely that's actually going to go through.
But again it's get thrown on the table to whack everybody $100 for every flight on top of all their existing operating costs.
And people are still a little concerned about where the economy is.
So -- and you also have the pressure.
It ties back to commentary earlier on the used aircraft pricing.
As long as the used aircraft pricing is pretty tough that means the collateral value of their current aircraft is not as strong as they'd like it to be.
So when you look at all those kind of moving pieces it just -- it kind of leads guys to say "I'll wait a little while and/or give me a lower price to help incent me to do it." And that's the part of the -- I think it's to say if that's really where the market is then we'll back off on production and just accept that there's less demand out there in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the restructuring actions that you're taking the $25 million is that mostly labor or do you have an opportunity to take out other fixed costs besides just labor? No the $25 million is virtually all related to severance of employee costs and obviously as a result -- salary cost.
And so as a result that will obviously accrete back over the balance of this year into the beginning of next year in terms of lower payroll.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then...
There aren't any -- there's no write-offs of equipment or things like that.
It's just running at a lower rate.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then just finally on the sequester could you help size -- it doesn't look like you saw much impact in the quarter if any.
But could you help size as we think about the Bell military aftermarket what that business looks like for you right now in terms of size and profitability and what you think -- how you're looking at the rest of the year playing out? And if there's any thoughts on systems along the same lines.
Well sir you're right.
I mean I think at this point we're seeing sequestration issues sort of on the margins if you will.
I would expect it in the aftermarket side of Bell.
There will be some pressure in that area.
And some of it's going to be OPTEMPO related as things continue to wind down and some of the conflicts.
Although I don't see that as being a material number or something that would give us any pause in terms of either our guidance this year or frankly our own -- our internal thoughts in terms of our long-range plans.
So yes some impact here and there but nothing material.
I think on the system side as we talked before the issues that -- or the areas I worry about is that we could see a little bit of impact probably around some of our UAS business and some of the programs associated with that because they are year-to-year funded.
And I think it's quite conceivable that in some of those programs there could be a slowdown of deliveries on some of the upgrade programs or refurbishment programs.
There can be some things in some of our intelligence software-related businesses where some of those agencies have taken a bit of a haircut on sequestration and it wouldn't be surprising to see them scale back accordingly on some of their acquisitions of some of their intelligence software and upgrade products and things like that.
So -- but again I -- we don't have at this point any visibility whatsoever that would say that we have a major program that would be impacted by this or cancellation or anything of that nature so I really do think that at least this year and what visibility we have in those programs as they go into the 2014 timeframe.
Will there be some pressures? I think everybody will have some pressures but they're all sort of on the margins not a significant or major program cancellation.
And our next question is from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Actually Jon Raviv in for Jason.
A quick question on V-22.
I was just wondering given the recent budget of V-22 was in line but going longer term out to '15 what are you thinking in terms of international orders and how that impacts expected volumes when the multiyear resets in 2015.
Okay.
So obviously the current multiyear is unaffected.
The next multiyear 2 [ph] which have been negotiated it's now in the process now the government has authority to go ahead and enter into that contract.
That's working its way through the process and should be done here I would guess within the next 30 days or so.
It goes through the normal congressional notification and there's just timelines associated with that.
But I think that will be signed here shortly.
In terms of foreign opportunities there has been no change in that regard.
We have a couple of customers that are already in I would say detailed discussions with respect to buying V-22s.
Those discussions continue to progress quite well.
I wouldn't expect to see any kind of a formal announcement until you get to the point where this is something that's going to be notified to Congress.
I mean these will be FMS transactions obviously so they have to go through that process.
But in terms of anything that's going on from a budgetary standpoint we haven't seen any impact to bring in those deals to conclusion.
And then just in terms of volume in 2015 what are the sort of pluses and minuses in terms of where we might go to from like 40 [ph] this year? Well the 2015 number is unchanged and I wouldn't...
24.
Yes it's 24 and I wouldn't expect that frankly at this stage to be changed by one of these Foreign Military Sales opportunities.
It's just we're getting too close to the timeline in terms of production volumes to make any kind of a material change to that.
I do think it's possible in one or maybe even both cases of the deals that are sort of in the works that it's possible that our customer may allocate a couple of those aircraft to start the initial deliveries with a foreign customer.
But it's too soon really to know.
But I think that I would not expect to see much change to that number of 24 in 2015.
So in the FMS volumes once we get under contract would really be added onto the volumes in the -- probably the '16 '17 timeframe.
And our next question is going to come from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Scott I wanted to pursue one more with Cessna.
When you announced on April 2 that you were going to have a reduction in indirect people at Cessna you made a comment production rates are unchanged.
And now 2 weeks later they're coming down.
I was just wondering if anything happened significantly in the last 2 weeks to have that change.
Look George I would say that the conversations that Scott and I had which frankly go back into March around what was going on in the business what we were looking at in terms of market recovery and such that we really probably need to take another look at the underlying cost in the business okay? Because even at that time we're expecting 2012 -- '13 to be kind of flat to '12 okay? So it's not like there was an expectation of a big recovery and we decided that we needed to take some cost out of the business to give ourselves some headroom.
We don't like coming in to every quarter -- and at that time we're trying to figure out "Okay are we going to make money? Are we not going to make money?" We decided to do some resizing of the business to make sure that even in the event of 38 jets we made sure that we had a profitable business.
And so the decision was taken at that time to do a voluntary reduction program.
We have an awful lot of stuff going on at Cessna as you guys know right? We have a lot of new product programs.
We have a lot of people working hard to do a lot of good things and we are trying to balance getting some cost out of the business without frankly putting the business through a very traumatic time.
And we've already gone through an awful lot of layoffs and reductions at Cessna over the last years.
So we concluded to do the voluntary program and we've put that into place okay? So when you talk about that April 2 that's when we actually announced it to employees and kind of opened the window to the voluntary program.
What happened with respect to production programs George is that we got to the end of the quarter and frankly all the way coming up to the end of the quarter we thought we had visibility to getting the 38 jets that we had in the plan.
And we just had too much activity particularly in the light side of the business with customers who were talking about doing a deal talking about doing a deal who again are looking for more price at the end to close those deals.
And as you can see we ended up with 32 not 38.
So we're not going to do that and that's when we countered the decision.
So look guys this is -- we're trying to put -- we're trying force transactions that just don't need to happen right now and that's when we undertook the decision to go in on the light segment and make a material change to our production plans.
And therefore we need to tell you guys we made a material change to our production plans on the lights and have reset our sales targets and goals.
And again as I said earlier it doesn't mean we're not going to be out there selling.
We're continuing to grow our sales force.
We're going to continue to do all those things so we don't miss any deal.
We've maintained our share.
We'll continue to do that.
But I think what we concluded by seeing the dynamic as we came into the end of the quarter is that the market really hasn't recovered or frankly stayed as stable as we'd like to see and we ought to react to that by taking down on our production.
Okay.
And a couple more on gross book-to-bill Scott was that much different than slightly below 1 net book-to-bill? I mean we've done with these older cancellations that we...
Yes there were only a couple of cancellations in there.
So I mean gross book-to-bill was actually just a bit above 1.
Okay.
And can you share what percentage of the deliveries for the rest of this year you might expect to come out of the current backlog versus how much yet you still need to get orders for? No I don't think we'll...
[indiscernible] We've got the new products -- obviously the M2s which are in the third and fourth quarter the Xs that are in the fourth quarter I mean these are orders that are already booked.
So they're -- certainly all the new models are coming out of backlog.
And we began to build some on the Sovereigns.
Okay.
And so we'll see no more Sovereign deliveries until the new ones because you basically stopped production and you're done with the inventory.
Would the...
Yes that's correct George.
We had 5 Sovereigns that were the last 5 of that model type.
All 5 of those aircraft sold in the first quarter and so you'll start to see deliveries of block-point-changed Sovereigns in Q3.
Okay.
And one last point if I might.
Industrial that was weaker than I thought.
You mentioned mix.
Do I assume then that relatively speaking China was worse than Europe? Because I thought you do better in China than you do in Europe? It was.
The -- and the specific issue in China is that our strongest segment of our business in China is our manufacturing that's in China for the Japanese OEMs.
And as we said at the end of last year we saw -- well in the last year we saw a dramatic softening in that business as a result of some of the friction here between China and Japan.
In essence there was some boycotting of Japanese product even though it's manufactured in China and that continued into the first quarter.
Just to be clear George our results in the first quarter CapEx were not inconsistent with our expectations.
We expected -- I mean we knew based on what was happening late last year George that that -- it was very likely that the friction with respect to Japan and China would continue and affect the sales of those models in China and it has.
And our next question is going to come from Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a couple more questions on Cessna.
Could you tell us what was the size of the preowned loss in the first quarter? Was R&amp;D up? And give us some color on the pattern of the P&amp;L for the year.
I mean is the second quarter likely to be in the red as a result of the $25 million charge? Oh yes I would absolutely say so Cai.
And again recognizing that $25 million is something which will accrete back over the balance of the year.
But absolutely when we take the costs of making those severance payments in the second quarter that will for sure push Cessna into the red.
On top of that we have no Sovereign sales in the quarter because we don't have any block point until the third quarter.
And yes we've had some R&amp;D and SG&amp;A growth.
Again we're putting more sales and resource out there on Cessna which I think we'll need to continue to do.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to the question of preowned losses.
How large were they? Yes.
The used kind of net of any forfeitures was mid-single digits and there was a low-single digit headwind year-over-year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then update us -- I think you mentioned M2 in the third quarter.
At one point I thought that was going to be in the fourth.
And [indiscernible] Yes I think Cai you and I have communicated incorrectly multiple times on this.
And I'm not sure whether you started it or I started it but the M2 will start deliveries in the third quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the Sovereign is in Q3 early Q3.
And when are we talking about the TEN? The X by the way we've gone back to just calling it the X because despite our best efforts people just want to call it the X so we've conceded that.
The X will be the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you had a strong profit maybe as indicated but the profit at TFC how -- what was the reason there for that profit and the outlook for selling any additional markdown assets? Well there were a couple of relatively smaller transactions in the non-captive business where we're still closing transactions particularly in the Golf Mortgage portfolio where we have been able to close those at better values than were on the book and so those resulted in some gains.
In terms of the captive business while there weren't a lot of originations in the quarter the losses and provisioning and just general operation of the business was pretty solid.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then normally you provided kind of updated sales and profit guidance for the year.
I mean can you offer any of that? You said Cessna is down a couple of hundred million in light jet sales.
But any other color on any of these businesses? I mean...
Yes the only changes that we see in terms of our -- well what led to our change in guidance Cai as I said you're probably talking about a couple of hundred million dollars or so of revenue at Cessna which will translate to a low very low-single digit margin.
And that really is the lion's share of the $0.20 reduction.
So I mean I think that math is easy to do.
We probably will have and the revised guidance does reflect about a $10 million improvement in the knock that we would expect out of the Finance segment.
The rest of the guidance in terms of revenue margin rates are unchanged.
LLC Research Division</strong> So really the shortfall of Bell was related to the ERP issue and you expect to catch that up over the remainder of the year? Yes absolutely.
We were light on commercial spares.
We shut the plant down for a week to make this transition so that put some pressure on us.
But I'd actually say that the change has gone fairly well considering big changes usually don't go well but it's gone fairly well.
But we got a little behind on a number of issues.
Just kind of working our way through the bugs in the system that impacted spares both military and commercial but commercial probably most significantly.
The demand in terms of orders on the commercial spares side actually was strong and I would expect here over the next couple of quarters we will get those spares that are sort of in arrears if you will delivered.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then the last one any change in the tax rate expectations? You mentioned corp expenses still the same.
Any other changes to the P&amp;L we should be aware of? No we don't expect -- as Frank said I think the year -- the total year tax rate should be in line with what we expected.
Obviously this quarter because of the full year last year of R&amp;D tax credit as well as this quarter of the 2013 year it just resulted in an unusually low number.
But we would expect on target for the total year.
And our next question will come from Peter Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess no Cessna questions left at this point but let me just ask another one on Bell.
Could you just remind us the expected year-over-year decline in margin rate at Bell? Outside of this Q1 issue what's driving the expected margin rate decline? Sure it's mix largely driven by growth in commercial original equipment sales.
So we expect to see a significant growth as we saw this quarter right with 40 commercial aircraft versus 30.
We expect to continue that sort of trend through the balance of the year.
And as we've also talked about in the past we have pretty significant increases in R&amp;D largely attributable to the 525 also a fair bit attributable now as you see on the V-280 Valor for the future Army program.
And we see some increases obviously in SG&amp;A as again we continue to expand and drive sales to keep growing in the commercial sector.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no real change to military OE this year? No.
As we've said before there's always a pressure point on that as we renegotiate contracts around the next multiyear on V-22 which will really be a 2015 impact.
Every year we go through renegotiation on rates on the H-1s.
But at the same time we're also trying to drive productivity and figure out how to recoup some of those costs so there's always some pressure on the military side.
But really what's driving the margin here in 2013 is just disproportional growth on the commercial original equipment side combined in particular with the R&amp;D growth for 525 and the V-280.
And our next question will come from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> On the delivery guidance at Cessna are deliveries -- non-Mustang deliveries going to be actually lower year-over-year? Or are we -- just most of the year-over-year decline is related to the Mustang? No this includes Mustang but also the CJ2 3 and 4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Scott I think from what I've gathered you've had some fairly high-level departures sales force departures at Cessna.
Can you just talk about maybe what's going on there how you're restructuring the sales force at Cessna? Well we've had a lot of changes in the sales force at Cessna over the last few years and I would say probably the most challenging for some of our people has been the fact that we're adding a lot of sales people.
So we've taken regions and we've broken them into considerably smaller regions because we feel we need to do that to get better coverage.
I think most of our sales people understand that and they recognize that having a smaller region and getting better coverage will ultimately lead to more overall sales for the company.
But obviously it puts pressure on individual guys because they don't have as big an area to work with.
And most of our folks have been good with that.
We've made it a good transition for them and we've added some real talent in terms of the sales team and the number of people that we have in the sales team.
But frankly we've had some people that have a hard time getting their head around that right? They say "Well jeez I used to have 10 states now I only have 3 states." And that's hard for some of them to accept that.
And obviously we try to work with them and say "Guys this is not about you.
It's not that you're not doing a good job.
It's that we've asked you to cover a sales territory that's just bigger than one human being could reasonably cover and really talk to customers and know what's going on and find new opportunities." And as I said most have been great about that.
And we've made adjustments and I think it's working if you look at our share for what market is out there.
But in some cases it's just too much for somebody to get their head around and so be it.
And next we'll come to Julian Mitchell with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on Cessna I just wanted to follow up on the delivery sort of outlook commentary in that business.
I mean your deliveries were down sort of double digits in Q1.
Revenues were up slightly so I'm just looking at the rest of the 9 months.
I mean what kind of slope of year-on-year change in Cessna deliveries are you embedding? Are you embedding the fact that the year-on-year trend should be fairly similar to what you had in Q1 or with the new jets with the easy comps you'll actually get a decent recovery in the second half? Well I think given our revised guidance and expectations around the light segment of the market that you would expect to see given that we'll be down in total year-over-year that we'll continue to see fewer jet sales per quarter.
Now one thing to keep in mind is I think it will be particularly low in the second quarter because you don't have any Sovereigns in that quarter.
As you get to the third and fourth quarter it's likely to be closer.
Keep in mind there's always variability here from quarter-to-quarter.
So I mean this is all sort of rough numbers for you but clearly given the revised guidance in total for the year you'll expect to see a smaller number of jet deliveries for the total year.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
But the guidance I guess does it therefore embed based on what you just said that in Q3 and Q4 it's down somewhat as well year-on-year? I don't -- I have not -- we don't have that quite that refined a process.
But I mean certainly it was down in the first quarter.
I would expect it to be down more so in the second quarter particularly with the Sovereigns not being in there.
And so third and fourth quarter will probably be close in terms of number of actual deliveries.
But it's just hard to estimate that at this point.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
And then just on capital allocation and so on I mean the manufacturing cash flow guidance has obviously been adjusted.
I just wondered what the updated thoughts were on things like the dividend outlook and so on in light of that the weak cash flow you had Q1.
Well the dividend outlook I think remains.
Our position is right now our capital requirements are to continue to pay down debt.
We did that in the first quarter.
We have some fairly significant paydowns that happened here in the second quarter and we have not published or decided on any revised dividend strategy at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly just thinking about the cost base for businesses beyond just Cessna.
Obviously the South Korean contract has been somewhere else in the last day or 2.
The Industrial profits are down 20%.
I mean it sounds like the trends in things like Bell and in Industrial are in line with what you had thought at the end of January.
But I wondered if there was any sense of sort of preparation of plans for other segments in terms of cost reduction beyond just Cessna at this point.
Well so I mean I think if you look at all the businesses at Bell in fact there are some cost-reduction programs that are already underway in anticipation of some of the lower military volumes that we see as we go out into that '15 and on timeframe.
This thing you mentioned with South Korea is certainly not something we've had in our plans either near or long term.
That's very much -- the product that was ultimately selected there is already very very embedded in the country and utilized there.
So it wouldn't have been a huge transition frankly I think to have gone a different direction and going with the Apache in South Korea so that was never in our plans.
And so there's no action we would take as a result of that.
There are a number of other FMS opportunities.
They're obviously in awards that we think will be things that we have a very real shot at winning on one front.
But anyway we have cost takeout plans and programs that are already underway at Bell to cite that business consistent with the military ramp-down somewhat obviously offset by the fact that we have a growing commercial business.
On the Industrial businesses we're always looking very hard at the costs of that.
We did have a much lower margin rate than we would like to have had on a normal basis in the quarter although we sort of expected that given the dynamics of what was going on particularly with automotive business in Europe and even more so in Asia but again consistent with our plans.
So I don't think -- there's not a need or plan at this point that we'd announce any kind of a major restructuring in any of those areas.
I think we're just going through some unusual market dynamics and we'll work our way through that.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly on Bell the margins there.
You mentioned sort of specific issues around commercial aftermarket.
And so -- I mean is the assumption that those are now sort of finished and so Q2 you should see a decent margin ramp off the Q1 margin level that you saw? Or are they going to be similar? Well the issue with respect to the systems transition in the first quarter was around commercial and to some degree military spares.
And certainly over the next couple of quarters those things will catch up.
There will continue however to be pressure on Bell in terms of margins.
And that's factored by the fact that I think we'll continue to see growth in the commercial original equipment market and we'll continue to have the same pressures that we saw in this quarter in terms of increased R&amp;D spending associated with our new product programs.
So I don't think there's anything -- there's nothing to happen in the first quarter or any dynamics or changes that we see that are inconsistent with the guidance that we provided for Bell Helicopter for the year.
And our next question is from Ron Epstein with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Scott so not to beat a dead horse but kind of back to Cessna what kind of indicators would you need to see to -- you take the cost out of the business through the voluntary stuff to start going the other way? I mean what would give you the confidence to say "Hey you know what actually things are getting better?" What would you need to see? More customers signing the bottom line on the deal.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And the whole...
I mean I don't mean to be trite Ron.
I mean you know this is a tough situation right? But this is -- I just want to be very clear.
This is just our view of the market.
And as we went through the quarter despite -- Ron you've been in this game a long time as well right? You look at what's going on with used aircraft sales you look at used available for sale.
I mean all of the corporate profits.
You look at all of the sort of what would be the leading indicators and all those leading indicators would tell you this market's turning.
And yet we didn't see it turning.
And so I think that we have just to sort of face the facts and say "Guys it hasn't turned yet." Now I don't know in 3 months 6 months it's -- we can't guess.
The good news for us if you want to look at it as the good news is we have the inventory.
So the material is there.
If in the next 3 months or 6 months or 9 months we start to see more demand where those customers particularly in that light side of the market are saying "Okay it's time for me to trade my aircraft." And again most of these guys now have had aircraft much longer than they usually have aircraft.
But once we start to see that we have the ability to react to that.
We have material in-house.
We have the ability to do final assembly.
We can put these things together.
We can sell these aircraft.
So we won't change our strategy in terms of increasing our sales resource out there.
So we're talking to these customers we know what's going on we know where they're at.
The only difference here is we're not going to try to grow forced deals.
We're going to let the market recover and want the deals to take place.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes that makes sense.
So just another quick question so in the quarter I mean the cash flow you talked about it a little bit I just want to see if I really understand what's going on.
So inventory went up so a lot of that cash that was used in the quarter was just inventory at Cessna.
Is that right? Actually some at Cessna.
Really the big inventory build in the quarter was at Bell and that's really because of the original equipment.
Obviously we had a fair number of dollars here of spare parts that didn't get shipped okay.
So there's a chunk of it that's just -- stuff that's sitting there.
As we put the new system and just getting stuff shipped build and moved is an issue.
So that stuff sitting inventory which should have translated into revenue and that will happen here over the next couple of quarters.
But also the fact that we're ramping the number of commercial helicopters.
And again the market on the commercial side I think is strong.
I think we're going to continue to see good order and sales flow through the balance of the year.
And we had what is unusually high amount of inventory build going into Bell but it's mostly driven by -- again some of it is sales that should have happened on the spare parts.
But a fair chunk of it is just stuff now going to the work in process that will sell out through commercial helicopters in the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then maybe one more if I can.
Maybe a much bigger-picture question and I'm not asking you for guidance for future years.
I know you can't do that.
But when you think about your plan for the company what if the business jets stayed slow for a while I mean longer than anybody hoped and you do get into an environment where V-22 numbers start coming down? This next multiyear is smaller right? Probably the same thing happens to H-1.
What do you do then? I mean how do you think about growing the business in that backdrop? Well obviously that's a challenge right? I mean I think look if you look at Bell '13 is quite solid '14 is quite solid.
It's really when you get into 2015 that we have this transition where you see the V-22 numbers coming down.
There's not a big transition at H-1 at that point.
But part of it obviously is Bell on its own what are we doing in terms of driving growth on the commercial side.
The 525 program really kicks in I think and we'll start to see revenue generation and margin in the '16 '17 timeframe.
So I think Bell on its own continue to be -- can continue to be a company a business that grows.
But there's no question that '15 will be a challenging year for them because you're really transitioning out of the V-22 volumes and you're not yet into the 525 volumes.
Now obviously we're working hard on 412s and you're looking at the 407s.
A lot of things we just announced is designed to drive commercial helicopter growth even before we get to the 525.
But there's no question that 2015 is a bit of a swing year in there for Bell.
On the Cessna front I think we're in the fifth year -- it seems like about 20 but I think we're in the fifth year of sort of no growth in the business jet business.
We still sort of have to believe this thing.
It is a real market.
It's a place that at some point needed to get back to growth and I think every market forecast would tell you that.
So does that not happen? I mean we thought surely that happens in '13.
If it doesn't happen by '15 I think that's -- again that's way too far out for me to figure that out.
Obviously with the block point stuff coming in here at the end of the year we think we've done some revamps to the product line that will help us.
Also by the way when you get out to 2015 you've got the Latitude coming in which is a fantastic new product.
And this is an industry where new products do tend to drive growth so I think we'll see that.
So I think as you say it's too early certainly for us to even think about any kind of guidance in that range.
But there are things that we're doing to try to drive growth through that 2015 around not just hoping the market does things but also trying to do things in terms of new product.
That's probably all I can say about it at this point.
And our next question will come from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification first the couple of hundred million that's relatively isolated to the light market it sounds like which just back of the envelope would look like a pretty significant kind of a 25% 30% reduction year-on-year in your light market deliveries.
Is that about what you're looking at x M2? Yes that's probably about right.
Correct x M2.
Research Division</strong> So I guess at a high level Scott I'm sure you're getting tired of transition years in Cessna so I'm curious is this new look at production kind of a different approach a way to purposely undershoot the demand curve maybe claw back some pricing.
And is the market now rational enough without Hawker out there that you could do that and this is actually maybe a positive? Well I mean I am a believer in supply demand.
And I think we are at a point here where we're going to try to have to rationalize that and make a better estimate of trying to match supply and demand.
I would say there's no question in my mind that as we look at the first quarter our expectations for demand were nowhere near as strong as we thought they would be and we had too much supply.
And when you have that situation I don't think that's particularly healthy from a pricing perspective.
So there's no question that this is an effort on our part to do a better job of matching up supply and demand.
Research Division</strong> I guess the question is more about are you trying to purposely undershoot demand so that you can effectively take some medicine now allow the absorption to happen and then have a better profile going forward hopefully as the market rationalizes.
Well look I think we're trying to match it.
If we go under it a little bit I'm not sure that's all bad.
And we'll move on to the next line coming from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-ups to all this.
One of my questions is kind of analogous to the prior question.
If you look at kind of 3 years here in a row of kind of 180 units plus or minus and now we're going down I mean to what extent do you think the market actually was not allowed to clear over this timeframe through the actions of yourself and others on creative trade-ins and other things? And can you actually -- I'm sure you understand the gist of the question.
Can you judge really the magnitude or if that is in fact an issue when there's a period of kind of further burning off kind of maybe the overproduction -- although it seems crazy to think 180 was overproduction but burning off the overproduction of the last few years? Well Jeff I mean obviously it's very hard to gauge that.
I don't think there's any question that the market was quite soft.
As you say it's hard to believe that 180 is too much right from our standpoint.
And keep in mind people don't push somebody's arm to buy a jet right? I mean this is a significant capital outlay so it's not like you're going to force somebody to do it.
But I do think that as a result of trying to sell aircraft when you do have a little too much supply you're going to do things from a pricing standpoint that probably you should not do.
And I think if you look at -- shares and whatnot have largely held steady through these phases.
And I think we're just at a point right now where from my view clearly we were going to have too much supply and that was going to create a lot of downward pressure on pricing in an industry that's already been a tough spot on pricing.
So I'll just to some degree say "Okay guys look we just -- we don't have this lined up right this year and we're going to make an adjustment." So look I don't want to be in a situation necessarily where if you have a customer that really wants to buy an aircraft that we don't have an aircraft available.
But on the other hand I think we have to balance that with not having to go out and try to incent deals to happen that would not otherwise happen.
So I mean it's very -- there's no facts in this right Jeff? I mean I do think we -- supply demand is a very real thing.
And I would probably say yes there has been too much supply not enormously too much supply probably I mean as these transactions happen.
But it looked to me like we're in a situation here where if we maintain the rates we have we clearly are going to have too much supply.
LLC</strong> Is the overhang from kind of plummeting Hawker used aircraft prices a big part of what's going on with your outlook for the year? Or is that more just kind of a headwind an issue around the edges? Well I think the challenge for customers okay for guys that are operating Hawker aircraft obviously at some point these guys are going to trade those aircraft in and buy new aircraft just like any model of aircraft.
There's nothing specific or unique going on there.
But there's no question as I said earlier if you look at what's happened to the residual values of some of those aircraft that is creating a challenge for some of those customers.
Because that spread between what they can get for that used aircraft and what a new replacement is is greater.
So yes I think that that -- what we've seen in terms of those residual values is going to be frankly a long-term challenge for a lot of those customers because their collateral is just worth less.
They're still going to want to upgrade.
They're still going to do that over time but it is going to put some financial pressure on them.
LLC</strong> Right.
And then finally just on FMS for V-22.
Obviously on the second multiyear the margins to the U.S.
DOD come down should we assume FMS margins come down similar -- obviously they're ahead of that from the sale yes but will FMS margins be similar to the new lower DOD margins? Or will they be somewhere in between the new margins and maybe where you're running today? Jeff obviously not having done one yet we don't know for sure.
But my expectations is that these FMS deals would effectively look like options exercised on top of the multiyear.
So you would expect price and margin to be consistent with the current sales under the multiyear 2 [ph] program.
All right ladies and gentlemen that brings us to a wrap on the hour.
Thanks for joining us.
I know that we have a few follow-up calls in queue and we'll make those callbacks at the conclusion of this call.
Thank you very much.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be made available for replay after 10:00 today running through July 16 at midnight.
You can access the AT&amp;T Executive playback service at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 265925.
International participants may dial 1 (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thanks for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Textron Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Doug Wilburne.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Tani and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in our earnings release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Moving now to second quarter results starting with Slide #3.
Revenues in the quarter were $2.8 billion down 6% from a year ago.
Our income from continuing operations was $0.40 per share which compares to $0.58 in the second quarter of 2012.
Moving to cash flow.
Second quarter manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was a $362 million use of cash and second quarter pension contributions were $17 million.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
We saw solid revenue growth at Textron Systems in our Industrial businesses as well as strong commercial orders of Bell.
On the business jet front demand continued to be soft.
As we announced in April we took cost production and pricing actions appropriate for this market environment.
Specifically we re-lowered our light jet production line rates reduced associated direct headcount downsized our indirect workforce and reduced our jet discount allowance.
As we expected reduced discounting to entice customers into the market did result in lower sales volume as we delivered 20 jets compared to 49 a year ago.
However we achieved positive new jet pricing on both a sequential and year-over-year basis which was our intent.
We still believe the overall market demand will eventually recover as global economic -- the global economies continues to expand.
With respect to the rollout of our new M2 Sovereign and Ten product lines we're making good progress with certification testing.
The aircraft are performing extremely well although minor delays in avionics software certification has slightly delayed initial delivery dates.
We would now expect M2 and Sovereign to begin shipping in the fourth quarter this year with the new Citation Ten early next year.
This will reduce total expected 2013 shipments resulting in a new full year Cessna revenue outlook of just over $3 billion.
Looking longer term with new products we're making good progress on our Latitude and Longitude platforms planned for service entry in 2015 and '17.
In fact the first Latitude fuselage and nose sections were mated last week and we're on track for flight test early next year.
Market receptivity for this new model has been a very good as we conducted a 19-city tour with our mock-up during the quarter.
Finally on Cessna we're making excellent progress in implementing our Chinese strategy to build and market Cessna Aircraft through in-country joint ventures.
We completed the equipment and tooling installation for our new Chinese Caravan facility and expect deliveries to begin before year-end.
We're also installing equipment and tooling at our newly constructed business jet facility and expect deliveries of XLS to begin next year.
Moving to our finance segments.
Slowness in the business jet market resulted in only a few new loan originations during the quarter.
However our segment profit benefited from good credit performance and a number of small-ask [ph] transactions in our non-captive business.
In our Industrial businesses we saw good growth in each of our businesses reflecting strong auto markets in North America and new product introductions and expansions of our global distribution channels.
We also had good execution with an overall incremental margin conversion of 39%.
We'll continue to invest in new products in our Industrial businesses as we believe that's the best way to win in the market and create high-value growth.
For example during the quarter we did introduce our redesigned TXT golf car updating the model's curb appeal and proven performance while delivering new features as well as increased durability and simpler maintenance.
During the quarter we also closed on the acquisition of Sherman &amp; Reilly a manufacturer of aerial and underground electrical power distribution and transmission products which significantly expanded Greenlee's electrical utility product line.
Moving to Systems.
Revenues were up reflecting growth in our unmanned air systems and precision munition product lines.
We continue to see operational stability in our fee-for-service unmanned air vehicle systems contract.
But as previously discussed this eventually -- is essentially a breakeven program at this time for us.
Our other major UAS contract is the Shadow Tactical Data Common Link retrofit program.
This program is still in the development phase and it now appears the completion of the development program will not occur in time to allow shipments of the production units that were planned for this year.
As a result Systems' 2013 revenues will probably be about $200 million lower than we previously expected.
On the precision munitions front we continue to ship product for the Saudi program under an undefinitized contract and expect a boost to Systems backlog in the third quarter as we recently came to agreement on final pricing.
At TMLS we're making good progress on our Canadian TAPV program as we deliver our preproduction vehicles for initial performance testing.
Across Textron Systems we have a substantial amount of global sales activity underway for our products and continue to believe this business can maintain a flat to slightly growing top line over the next several years.
Finishing with Bell we delivered 9 V-22s and 6 H-1s in the quarter flat with delivery in last year's second quarter.
We signed a second V-22 multiyear contract to deliver 99 units beginning in late 2014 with options for 23 additional aircraft with 1 already exercised.
We're also in active discussions with several potential FMS customers.
This should lead to additional V-22 volume in the second multiyear timeframe.
Last month our Bell V-280 tiltrotor platform was selected to participate in the U.S.
Army's Joint Multirole Technology Demonstrator program.
We believe the V-280 offers the Army the highest level of performance at test [ph] as well as the best overall value in terms of capability procurement costs and operating costs.
On the commercial side we delivered 44 helicopters in the quarter versus 47 units in last year's second quarter.
While deliveries were down this was a result of commercial delivery timing and not a reflection of demand as commercial order flow remained strong in the quarter.
On the last earnings call we indicated a transition to a new ERP system had negatively impacted our productivity in aftermarket shipments.
We have improved operations such that we are now shipping spare parts at levels higher than before we implemented the new ERP system while we have further work to do implementing these systems and we'll be focused on improving operating productivity and output to reduce spare parts backlog and return to internal production schedules.
On the new product front we made a strategically important announcement at the Paris Air Show when we unveiled our new short light single which essentially replaces our Legacy 206 JetRanger.
With our recently upgraded 407 and 412 models our new 429 and the planned 525 the new SLS will fill out our product line at the lower end.
With over 4 400 JetRangers currently in service there's meaningful existing upgrade market to support this demand.
We're expediting development to bring this product to market as quickly as possible with the expected first flight late next year.
To wrap up we expect slightly lower full year results at Cessna and Systems and slightly higher results at Finance and Industrial.
We're maintaining our guidance for 2013's guidance of $1.90 to $2.10 per share.
We're also maintaining our projected 2013 cash flow from continuing operations of the manufacturing group before pension of about $400 million.
In summary we remain focused on improving our operational execution and cost productivity and we remain committed to continue our investments in new products and sales capability to grow the business over the long term.
With that I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Segment profit in the quarter was $213 million down $97 million from the second quarter of 2012 on a $880 million decrease in revenues.
Let's look at how each of the segments contributed starting with Cessna.
Second quarter revenues at Cessna were down $203 million on a year-over-year basis reflecting lower jet deliveries.
The segment had a loss of $50 million primarily due to lower volumes along with the impact of $28 million in pretax severance costs.
We would expect that expense savings would offset most of the $28 million by the end of the year.
At Bell revenues were down $31 million primarily due to lower commercial helicopter volume.
Segment profit decreased $17 million reflecting the lower volume and an unfavorable mix in our commercial business.
At Textron Systems revenues were up $33 million primarily due to higher volumes in our UAS and weapons and sensor product lines.
Segment profit decreased $6 million reflecting a larger mix of lower-margin service contracts.
Industrial revenues increased $45 million reflecting higher volumes across most of the businesses and an increase from acquisitions.
Segment profit increased $18 million primarily due to improved performance and the higher volumes.
Moving to Finance.
Revenue decreased $24 million from last year's second quarter reflecting lower Finance receivables.
The segment had a profit of $15 million.
Credit performance continued to improve during the quarter with non-accruals of $124 million and 60-day delinquencies of $65 million.
Moving to corporate items starting with cash flow.
Looking at our cash flow reconciliation which is at the bottom of the manufacturing group cash flow schedule which is attached to our earnings release we've had a year-to-date use of cash from operating activities before pension contributions of $787 million.
As reflected on our June 29 balance sheet also attached to our press release you can see that a significant portion of this cash use was driven by an increase in working capital.
This was driven primarily by operations at Bell and Cessna.
At Bell this was the result of inventory builds for higher second half military and commercial deliveries and the productivity issues that Scott discussed earlier.
At Cessna the cash use reflected ramp-up of production for new M2 Sovereign and Citation Ten and lower-than-expected deliveries in the first half of the year.
We expect these working capital increases to reverse during the second half of the year as we deliver the higher volumes at Bell and as we certify our new models and deliver higher volumes at Cessna.
Moving back to the P&amp;L.
Corporate expenses were $20 million flat with the year ago.
Interest expense was $30 million down $5 million from last year's second quarter primarily due to the benefits from the payoff of our convertible notes on May 1.
Our diluted average share count during the quarter was 283.8 million shares which was 11.7 million shares lower than last year's second quarter primarily reflecting the share repurchases in last year's fourth quarter and the convertible notes settlement.
Finally our EPS guidance now reflects an annual effective tax rate of 28% down from our previous guidance of 29%.
This reflects lower domestic income at Cessna and Systems which is subject to higher U.S.-based tax rates.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
So operator we can open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Scott or Frank just to make sure I've got the production flow at Cessna about correct here.
If I slide the Ten out and the Sovereign out as you just indicated versus my prior model I show second half total deliveries down kind of 5% to 10% and full year '13 down something like 20% to 25% versus '12.
Does that sound about right? It's probably about the right order of magnitude.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then can you just go back to the avionics delays that you mentioned are driving that? And maybe give us a little more detail on exactly what's going on there? Sure Noah.
Look we have in both the M2 which is a Garmin 3000 cockpit and the Ten and the Sovereign which essentially have the same Garmin 5000 cockpit.
We're trying to have one basic certified software build that really underlies all 3 of those platforms.
The flight testing and the performance of the avionics equipment and whatnot for the most part has been quite good.
The aircraft are performing extremely well making great progress in all their flight testing.
But our supplier has struggled going through this first -- our 25 cert and just getting everything all lined up and getting us a build of the software that will pass through all the final certification testings.
We think we're there frankly.
I mean it hasn't really impeded the flight test program.
The aircraft have been continuing to run.
We do have the initial builds of -- or the initial versions of the latest build that are in our own integration laboratories on the ground and look very good.
The guys are very bullish that we think it has the things that it needs to have in it for the final cert and so it's a matter of just taking those now and getting them into the actual aircraft.
And then frankly going through the formal process and getting each of the aircraft through.
And the only reason the Ten is pushing into next year is just the timelines to get the M2 through the certification process get the Sovereign through it.
It's probably going to push the Ten into beginning of next year.
So it's relatively mild modest in terms of its schedule impact Noah.
We're originally hoping to get the first couple of sales of M2s and Sovereigns late in the third quarter and then we had always planned the Tens in the fourth quarter.
And I just think with some of the as I say relatively minor delays in getting this final software build it's pushed them out a couple of months but that's enough to push it all the deliveries of the M2s and the Sovereigns into Q4 and just realistically speaking as we focus on getting those through the process so it'll push the Tens into the first of next year.
Next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Scott or Frank just on the cash flow heard what you said on the inventory build at both Bell and Cessna.
I was wondering if you could give a little more detail on I guess what surprised you in the quarter? Or if it did at all are you back on track? I know you haven't caught up at Bell for the ERP implementation but are you back on track with where you originally would've thought you would've been? And then on Cessna how are you going to make back the inventory build by the end of the year if some of these deliveries are getting pushed into 2014? Well I think Cessna is more or less to be expected.
I mean we know we're ramping up M2s.
We're ramping up Sovereigns.
We expected as you know to take down the light jet production volume but obviously we are finishing out the aircraft that were in the queue.
So we certainly expected to see a significant inventory build at Cessna.
We still believe that we will get the M2 and the Sovereign deliveries that we had in the plan for the year.
It's just they'll all be fourth quarter instead of over the end of the third and into the fourth quarter.
So the only ones that are really moving out in total are the Tens moving into next year.
So for sure there is some pressure there.
On the other hand we think there are opportunities and we're certainly taking fewer trade-ins.
So as we continue to work down our balance of used aircraft inventory which we did again in the quarter we think that helps to make up for some of that cash shortfall in terms of having the Citation Tens delayed into the first quarter of next year.
So the Cessna situation I think is pretty well understood.
There's not a lot of surprises there and we'll work our way through that.
At Bell I would say certainly to our plan we're behind where we would like to be in terms of cash.
As I said in terms of how we're doing in this ERP system particularly with respect to a lot of our parts shipments be it into the spares or into our final assembly factories the improvement in that area is kind of back to plan.
But it did not catch up where we were behind in the first quarter.
And so that's the work we still have to do.
So we're -- the system is running.
I mean we can demonstrate that we can now ship the parts at levels at or above where we were before we put the system in.
But we haven't yet achieved the level where we were able to burn down that backlog.
But we certainly have expectations that'll happen through the course of the year.
And that also results in getting things around progress billings and things like that where you don't have as much in progress that has been accomplished and therefore you're behind on some government billings.
But again as we get that system recovering and get it stable and work our way through the rest of the year we think we will recover that.
Research Division</strong> So it's fair to say that we should see improvement certainly in Q3 particularly at Bell? And then a lot of the improvement at Cessna comes in Q4 because that's when all the new deliveries take place? Yes that's exactly right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then over in Industrial margins were quite good the highest in I think a very very long time.
You attributed it to performance and to volume.
How should we be thinking about the upside opportunity to what you've been putting up in the past is sort of the 8% level as we go forward? Or are we going to revert back to that level? Well as you know our Industrial businesses are each cyclical in their own nature.
So I think I wouldn't expect to see 9% almost 10% margins in the last 2 quarters.
But I certainly would expect to see margin expansion over what the margins have typically been in the third and the fourth quarter.
So I think performance will stay strong.
The strategy we have around there both in terms of productivity and driving more sales and new products is working and I think it'll continue to work.
So certainly there is the seasonality but I would expect to continue to see margin expansion in the Industrial businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more Scott could you comment on demand in particular for midsized aircraft? Have you filled those initial Sovereign slots for the new version of the aircraft and maybe just address XLS demand? So Sovereign demand I mean we are starting obviously to take orders for the new Sovereign.
We just got the first production aircraft off the line only a few weeks ago.
And that thing has been on a very very steady and busy tour of flying around and doing demo flights.
So we really didn't have the sales tool in place until here just very recently but the aircraft is out there flying a lot of customers.
And I'd say we have a pretty strong list of customers that are interested in the new Sovereign.
It's always been a very popular aircraft.
People that have them love them.
And it's a very nice refresh to the aircraft.
So as I said we have started to take orders and put them into the backlog but we've only really been out there able to show people the aircraft and demo fly it here in the last few weeks.
So it's I would say it's building some pretty reasonable momentum in terms of the customer prospect list.
XLS demand has been pretty steady through the quarter and no real change.
In terms of the light jet market as I said there's -- the market is still very soft.
And if you're not out there doing pretty aggressive discounting and trying to go to customers that are not ready to move yet you're not going to see a whole lot of volume.
That's exactly what we expected to see in the marketplace.
So there's obviously some activity but it's still pretty soft.
Our next question comes from the line of John Godwin [ph] with Morgan Stanley.
In the release you described the Cessna production cuts as the right actions.
I was just hoping you could elaborate on that a little bit.
Of course demand continues to be soft.
So I was just curious would continued softness in biz jet trends from here cause you to revisit production even further and potentially reduce it again? Or by right actions do you mean that the data that you see and the conversations that you're having suggest that you've really hit the right level given where demand is? Well I mean obviously this a very fluid situation so I don't think we'll ever say "Hey we're done one way or the other." So in the case of the lights we scaled back what we thought our target for the year would be around sales of those aircraft.
And I would say at least looking into what we are anticipating for the third and fourth quarter we think we're in the right place.
On the other hand if you look at M2s the market demand for that new product has stayed fairly strong and we've actually gone in and tried to figure out how to add some additional slots into next year because we're in a situation right now where we see some transactions happening and the M2 would be the right aircraft for the customer but it's -- we don't have available slots for them.
So we've had some adjustments obviously that we took down this year around some of the light models comfortable with where we are right now.
That doesn't mean we would change it up or down based on what we see demand changing in the marketplace.
But I think what we took those down to our view right now is that's probably the right number in terms of our current production role.
And then of course we have the M2 where we're going to go try to find a way to insert some more available slots into 2014 because we think the demand is there.
Okay that's very helpful.
And I was hoping you'd talk a bit about what the sales force is telling you the customer response was to the production rates.
Of course you had some good comments on incremental pricing.
Is that just sort of simple supply-demand rebalancing? Or is there any kind of new or renewed sense of urgency to transact that wasn't in the customer conversations before the cuts? Just any clarity or background there would be helpful.
Sure.
I know I would categorize it as a supply-demand balancing.
So the transactions that I felt that we were doing that we wanted to get away from doing we're trying to go in and do some additional discounting to get a customer who's ultimately going to upgrade their aircraft and trying to pull them forward to get them to upgrade now.
And so as we took that sort of aggressive discount out and didn't go try to pursue and try to get somebody to come into the market that didn't feel they were ready to come into the market obviously those transactions have gone away.
So -- and -- customers are fine with that.
When you have customers that say "Hey I'm okay where I am probably for another year or 2 " then that's fine.
They'll keep flying their current aircraft for another period of time.
Our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the Cessna margin in the quarter.
If you exclude the severance costs that you called out last quarter you're still decently negative.
I wondered if there were any other cost action items there? Or maybe you could comment on any impact from used aircraft in the quarter? Any color there would be helpful.
Sure.
So obviously the vast majority of it was associated with the severance costs which is the $27 million that we have in there.
There were about $8 million of used aircraft residual write-downs.
But other than that it was just a very very light delivery quarter.
And so there's just not a lot of cost absorption on 20 jets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a clarification when you say pricing improvement from the actions you took is that sequential improvement versus last quarter or year-over-year? Sequential and year-over-year actually.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one final one.
In Systems you mentioned the definitization of the Saudi contract.
Does that result in any material margin impact versus what you had under the undefinitized contract before? No it doesn't.
We were -- where we ended up was roughly the pricing that we expected in terms of how we've been booking the deal.
So I think the only real consequential outcome you'll see of that becoming a definitized contract is it'll all go into backlog as opposed to just what was under the undefinitized contract.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Scott I'd like to follow up on your comment earlier that you mentioned about continued softness in light demand of apparently a pickup in demand for the mid-cam [ph].
Do think there are some of the sort of structural change here in terms of the business jet market that is preferring these larger jets? Well Robert I think we just continue to have a view of the market that says the light market the light to small mid-market is really a small to midsize business person and they're more economically sensitive than large corporations and other corporate operators of aircraft that tend to have larger aircraft.
So I think the confidence in the economy around that small to midsized business community has been a little more subdued.
And so when you look at a large corporate operator they get so many years in they're going to roll that aircraft.
I mean they're very worried about reliability and availability and aircraft on ground these sorts of things and I think they're more inclined to accept a more difficult residual value environment and go ahead and roll the aircraft anyway.
When you look at a light operator that historically yes they like to roll it at 5 years or 7 years I think with residual values where they are right now they're inclined to say they'll stick with it for another year or 2.
So that's our general sense.
A lot of people we see coming in right now are coming in.
They're coming from the places they usually come from in terms of light jets right? They're coming out of a turboprop or a light single and something like that.
But you don't see as much activity of the people who are current CJ operators that are doing their upgrade.
Eventually they will come but I think a lot of it just has to do with where the residual values are.
And the used aircraft market certainly from a volume standpoint the number of aircraft has been dropping and dropping but it's still a fairly significant number.
And I think the biggest challenge is that we haven't really seen for sure have not seen a price recovery in terms of used aircraft values.
And I think those are the things that need to happen before you're going to see -- or a significant strengthening in the economy where people feel better about what's going on before you're going to see a lot of activity in the light market.
LLC Research Division</strong> And the second question I was wondering if you could comment on the demand environment in terms of geographical regions.
If you're seeing any differences versus maybe what you said 3 months ago in U.S.
Europe or Asia? No it's still very much U.S.-centric.
There's a little bit of activity in Europe very light activity frankly in Latin America some in Asia not very strong on the lights.
A lot of demand in Asia on the Caravan.
We're seeing a fairly strong demand for our turboprop business over there.
But in terms of the jet market it's very North American-centric.
Our next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> Let me just ask I guess a couple of Bell questions just for something different.
On the SLS Scott I mean some of your competitors sell helicopters in that range 100 to 200 helicopters a year.
Is that the kind of opportunity that you're thinking for that model? It is.
I mean I think our principal competitor in this market right now Peter really is the guys that have moved in into the Robinson R66s.
That's really the space that we're targeting.
It's kind of that price point.
I think we have -- it'll be a little different performance for us but it's in roughly in that price point.
And it's probably a 200- 300-helicopter-a-year market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Great.
And then any progress on the 429 weight approvals from the FAA? Not from the FAA.
We continue to get more countries that are approving it based on the Canadian certification.
So we see the market continue to grow internationally for it as it's approved.
I think the situation with the FAA Peter is that as you may have read there's really an activity going on right now within the FAA to look at this whole issue of is 7 000 pounds the right number to delineate between the current certification standards whether it's a 27 or 29.
And this has happened in the past by the way right where as technology changes and what's available in the market changes and technologies change from particular is it appropriate to have a specific weight that delineates the difference? If so is it the right weight? And so really what's happening right now is there is a broader review of this issue going on in the FAA and I suspect that where we'll end up will really be reflective of where the FAA wants to go in the future in terms of how they're going to delineate between Part 27 and 29 service.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just broadly on the Bell commercial helicopter I guess cycle you mentioned timing during your I think your opening remarks.
You don't sense that the commercial helicopter cycle is slowing at all? You just think you had a timing issue in the quarter? And overall the commercial helicopter up-cycle is sort of still intact.
Is that kind of your view? It is.
There's no change to our view.
The quarter actually was quite strong in terms of order rate so a lot of order activity.
We were light a few helicopters versus a year ago but that really just has to do with customer delivery timing.
And there's no change in our view of what's going on in the market nor our expectations in terms of our deliveries for 2013.
Our next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Scott you mentioned improvement in pricing at Cessna sequentially and year-over-year.
And yet if one looks at the used market it looks like those prices continue to kind of soften.
So do you feel you've kind of hit equilibrium here where basically the prices really have held and can get better from here? Or are you concerned that the weakness in the used market is going to catch up with you and so you're going to have continuing pricing pressures in your business? Well Cai I think that part of what's going on with the new aircraft pricing was also driving the residual value on the used aircraft.
So it's actually a little bit the other way.
And I guess one thing I want to be clear about.
I don't want to mislead anybody all right.
We got better pricing in the quarter with both sequentially and year-over-year but we're hardly taking aircraft back to list pricing.
These are still attractive prices for customers versus historical levels okay? So there is still discounting going on.
It's not like this has snapped back to all of a sudden people are going to be selling at list price.
So I do think that pricing will continue to reflect sort of the tone of what's going on in the market.
It was just our view that coming out particularly out of the first quarter and I looked at what was going on from a pricing standpoint was getting to the point where it didn't make any sense do these deals okay? So I mean we need to go back to a level of price that is still a fair an attractive deal for our customers but one which is also a reasonable deal for our company to be able to continue to invest in new products and et cetera.
So that correction I think was very important.
And I'm glad that we made it and I think it's appropriate that we make it.
But these products are still very attractive in terms of how they're priced at this point even going back modestly above where they were in 2012.
So used aircraft pricing Cai absolutely I think is still going to be a challenge.
But I think that there -- it's more of an impact to the ability for somebody to trade in and what their residual value is as opposed to how it should necessarily pressure new aircraft pricing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Was there any change as you went through the quarter in terms of the tone of demand in any respect? Not really.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you'd mentioned the avionics delay and obviously you already were planning most of the delivery of Sovereigns and M2s in the fourth quarter.
But obviously I assume some of those have slipped into next year.
Approximately how many of those new plane deliveries that you'd expected this year slipped into next year? As I said I really still expect that we will get the M2 and Sovereign deliveries that we were expecting.
They'll just be in the fourth quarter instead of getting some done in the beginning -- or the end of the third quarter.
The only aircraft that I really view as moving into the next year as a result of these delays are the Tens.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Frank just a quick question for you.
The corporate line in the income statement seems to bounce around from quarter to quarter.
I was wondering if you could give us an update on the second half and your view all else being equal at this point stock price and all the other inputs that go there what we should expect on the corporate line for the second half of the year? Yes I mean the corporate line kind of generally if you look at kind of how we guided it runs about kind of $35 million to $38 million on average.
And it bounces around as you say because of that kind of share price activity and what that does in terms of just the stock-based compensation expense.
And so if you kind of think $38-ish million type area per quarter that's a normalized type of level for that expense.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's what's baked into your guidance then for the full year this $38 million both in the third and fourth quarters each? Yes that type area $37 million and $38 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Scott just a quick question on Cessna and the margins there.
Can you just give us a little bit of color around your expectations on incremental margins assuming we get some year-on-year growth going again there? What we ought to expect from incremental margins on a go-forward basis? So I think you've talked about a range in the past and I was wondering if you could give us an update there.
Yes we generally expect to see 20% 25% incremental margin on volume growth at Cessnas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And these most recent actions don't change that at all the headcount reductions? No because it's largely trying to size based on what we anticipate volumes to be.
I mean those are the actions that we have to take if we're going to adjust the business accordingly in terms of what the revenues are going to look like.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay great.
And then last one Scott could you -- in the past you've given us a little bit of your expectations around the biz jet market in China.
I was wondering generally speaking you talked a little bit about your production actions but can you talk a little bit about the market itself and the development of the biz jet market in China and where we are today? Well we still have expectations that we're going to see growth in the Chinese market in terms of -- and remember I'm talking about our products which are primarily aircraft that would be flown within China not in and out of China so it's a domestic aircraft.
It is still today not an easy market from that standpoint because it's not easy to fly internal just in terms of the air space management.
But we have every indication and certainly see activities going on that would lead us to believe that that's going to continue to liberalize.
So there's a lot more liberalization of lower altitude airspace that's happening.
We see this in selling Caravans.
We see it in selling helicopters.
A lot of this air space is going to become more open.
But it's certainly our expectation that they'll start to open up and make it easier to fly within the country at the higher altitudes which is really obviously the land of the jets.
So our focus here right now is making sure we have a good sales team in place and start to do the market development activities so that as we continue to sell into that market we make sure that we're present and see every opportunity.
And obviously the XLS manufacturing in Zhouhai which we expect to kick in and start deliveries next year is specifically targeted at those opportunities.
Our next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes I had a question on the Bell margins.
In the first half they were down around 100 bps.
Year-on-year you had a sort of 40% 45% decremental.
If you're thinking about the second half I mean is there anything in terms of the phasing or the weighting of R&amp;D for things like the 525 the V-280 that maybe changed that dynamic? Or R&amp;D is fairly well smooth through the year? Fairly smooth Julian.
I mean we're still on track for our original guidance between 13% and 14%.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then in Cessna if we're thinking about I understand the push outs and so on.
I mean excluding that it sounds as if volume and pricing are tracking pretty much in line with where you would've thought back in April and May.
I just wanted to check if that's the case? And more specifically what's going on with Cessna aftermarket? I think that was up about 9% in Q1.
Just what sort of trend did you have just now? It's up again in this quarter in both parts and services.
So guys are still flying the aircraft utilizing the aircraft.
And we're seeing I'd say reasonable growth on the service side of the business.
And in terms of the volume of jet production as I said I think the numbers we're looking at right now in terms of the performance this quarter and our expectations here through the second half of the year we feel like our plans in terms of production that we laid in are probably about where they need to be.
So I'd say it's at this point we still have the same expectations that we had when we talked to you after the first quarter call.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then lastly just if you could -- obviously rates are moving around and so on just a reminder on what the anticipated pension effect on earnings is for '13? It's -- oh for '13.
'13 it was...
Research Division</strong> Yes if you're willing to talk about '14 that would be great but I just -- any view on either.
I thought it was 1 30...
Well no for '14 the pension expense was $225-ish million area which was a meaningful headwind to our 2012 level.
[indiscernible] expense budget [ph].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the expectation for the effect in '13? That -- I'm sorry so on '13 we had about $55 million of pension headwind and total pension expense was about kind of $225 million.
And in '14 we should no -- we would expect it depends on rates and lots of things between now and then but we would expect that we will no longer see a headwind.
We should see a bit of a tailwind.
And obviously that'll depend on kind of discount rates and returns for the rest of the year and lots of other factors.
But we as we sit here today we would not expect to continue to see a pension headwind as we move into '14.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just cleaning up a few things.
Used aircraft that charge of $8 million or write-down of $8 million is that on aircraft that are now no longer in-house? And can you give us some color on the size and dollars and/or units of your used aircraft inventory? Those -- that $8 million is a charge against our current inventory based on the residual values.
We obviously had some sales of aircraft in the quarter Jeff.
And I don't think there was an appreciable gain or loss on sale of those guys.
So they're marked to roughly the right spot.
I think there was a very modest gain this quarter.
But we don't talk about the specific numbers of aircraft on the used side.
We did sell -- we didn't sell quite as many as we did year-over-year but actually dollar volume of the sales was actually a bit higher than it was year-over-year.
And net inventory went down slightly Jeff.
Right.
Net inventory -- yes.
LLC</strong> Net inventory is down? Right.
LLC</strong> And then just kind of back to Cessna so effectively what you're telling us right is M2 was sold to your plan now through 2014.
I mean obviously I don't know precisely what your plan is but I'm hoping we can kind get kind of bigger than a breadbox type of thought process here.
If I think about M2 obviously clearly is going to hurt M1.
I think you would agree with that.
I don't know if you do.
But if I think about M1 plus M2 are we looking at unit volumes equivalent or maybe even better than kind of the 40-ish a year that we were seeing in 2011 and 2012? Well I think it's a fair way to look at it Jeff.
I mean it's sort of an equivalent number.
Mustang deliveries have been at a relatively low rate just because again we see a relatively small number of people coming into that market.
But certainly when you look at the total for the entry jet market there's now 2 ways to participate in that with us right? Either the Mustang or the M2.
And so yes you got to think about kind of annualized roughly the same number of aircraft with a I think at least in the early years a significant mix shift towards the M2.
LLC</strong> And then kind of along the same lines your confidence on clearing the WIP inventory in Cessna obviously comes around moving the Sovs and the Tens that you're building.
Can you give us some color on how you're sold on those relative to your production plan on whatever horizon you're comfortable talking about it whether it's through Q4 or into 2014? Well I guess just from color standpoint I mean the Tens are pretty sold.
That's been out there for a while.
We've been able to market and sell that aircraft.
On the Sovereign we still have a number of aircraft to go sell.
But as I said earlier we really have only had the first demonstrator aircraft to take out and start doing demos and flight tours here over the past month.
So as I said we have started to take orders.
We have started to close deals but we still have more aircraft to sell here for the 2013 plan.
But we think we have a pretty reasonable level of interest in the customer community and a lot of people that are talking to us a lot of people are doing demo flights.
But that process is still fairly early.
LLC</strong> Right.
And then finally for me just Bell commercial can you give us kind of just the rough percentage delta.
What you think full year volumes look like versus 2012? I think we guided we would be up significantly and I think that's how it's playing out.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So notwithstanding the little hiccup in Q2 the back half looks very strong? Yes I mean the Q2 is just -- we line up with customer delivery dates.
So unfortunately in Q2 there were a number of aircraft particularly larger aircraft that are heavily more heavily weighted towards the third and fourth quarter.
LLC</strong> And I'm sorry just finally one more.
So just thinking about all this actually the incrementals in Cessna with the charge and the used aircraft and everything aren't awful actually.
For as much as production is down I would say it's kind of admirable although it's a tough market for you.
But should we think of Cessna I mean Cessna should be breakeven or better in Q3? Is that a reasonable expectation? Again Jeff it's so sensitive to the volumes of aircraft and without having any of the M2s or Sovereigns in Q3 I think that's going to make that a challenge.
I mean obviously that's what we're trying to do.
I think look the bottom line here is that the team out there I think is doing a heck of job in a pretty tough environment.
They have driven a lot of cost productivity and I think that's part of what you're seeing.
I mean we're not just saying "Well it's a bad market so everything's going to a disaster." We can't possibly be happy about anything that has a red number associated with it.
But the guys are simultaneously trying to drive as much productivity and go through the challenges of reducing and eliminating an awful lot of jobs to respond to what's going on in the market.
At the same time they're trying to invest a ton of money in developing a bunch of new products that will help us both this year or next year and into the future.
So it's a tough balancing act.
But I think those guys are doing a heck of a job trying to do everything they can to manage costs and make sure that we do as well as we can in a tough market.
And obviously I think position us so that when this thing does play itself through on this cycle things will come out very well.
Our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Just a follow up on a couple of numbers Scott.
You kind of said aftermarket sales of Cessna were up.
Were they up in the 5% to 10% area like they were in the last quarter? They were up 16% but keep in mind that we had some M&amp;A over the past year in the service center.
So on an organic basis it was high-single digit.
And the used plane sales that were in the quarter? I'm sorry George what about the used aircraft in the quarter? Okay.
Could you just give us what the sales volume was? I don't think we've given the specific numbers George.
As I said we were down a couple in terms of units but on a year-over-year basis we were actually up in terms of the sales volume.
So they were more expensive larger aircraft.
Okay.
And then Scott the CJ4 was particularly weak this quarter.
I mean you kind of been running double digits and it dropped to 4.
Is there any reason for it? Or is it just succumbing to the light weakness? And then would you expect that to rebound some in the third quarter? Well I think George it probably is a reflection a bit of this notion that people that already have CJs aren't going to do an upgrade at this time.
And we see a lot of people that are going to the CJ4s that might be current CJ2 or 3 operators right now.
So I think that's probably a little bit a good example of it.
If you don't see a whole of upgrade activity going on you're probably not going to see as many more people move into the 4s.
So what -- in third quarter deliveries I mean what's able to drive it significantly higher or maybe it's only a little bit higher than the 20 that we saw in the second quarter? I'd have to say George it's probably just sort of the normal cyclicality of people buying aircraft.
[indiscernible] we look at what's going on in the customer community and the number of deals the number of prospects on every aircraft type.
So it's -- we're not particularly guiding a specific number of aircraft in the third quarter.
But I would -- looking at it right now we'd certainly expect it to be higher than the 20 that we saw in the second quarter.
Okay.
And then just a more general one Scott you had mentioned after the first quarter you weren't going to cut price and we clearly saw that in lower orders this quarter although better quality orders.
The fact that you didn't succumb to that temptation at the end of the quarter does that change people's minds sufficiently that we go into the third and the fourth quarter here that they recognize that they're going to have to pay a better price if they want an airplane? I mean can you talk about that mentality that's out there? Well George it's a very good question and it's part of the theory the case that we have but we don't know the answer to that yet right? I mean without a doubt some calls happened at the quarter saying "Hey are you ready to make a deeper discount to get a deal done?" And the answer to that question is no.
And so for sure there's some deals that probably could have happened this quarter that didn't because we're not prepared to go with those price levels.
As I said earlier with Cai you guys we're not going to go back to list pricing all right? I mean but these are still attractive prices and we're certainly hopeful that those customers who want to upgrade have a reason they want to upgrade to a new aircraft will consider coming in and paying a reasonable price.
But we're not going to go do that kind of aggressive discounting at the last moment to try to get a deal across the goal line.
So whether that's actually happens in practice versus just theory remains to be seen.
But certainly there were some people that were looking for bigger discounts to try to make a deal happen.
And again that goes back to price levels that don't make sense for us.
So I think I hope we're at the point now where the number that we can put on the table for that customer is a very fair and reasonable number.
And it's a number that they'll be comfortable with and ultimately will trade in or buy the aircraft.
Our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So just I guess the first one is sort of the high-level assessment EBIT margin guidance for the year.
Is the full year anticipated to be still better than breakeven now? That's certainly our objective.
Again it's going to be very volume-sensitive.
But certainly our plan would be to get it above the breakeven line on the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Bell aftermarket in the first quarter had the ERP issues and was down.
What was it like in the second quarter? And can you give us some perspective on the military aftermarket in particular? If you look at the total aftermarket we were on what our original plan was for the quarter okay.
So the system we have figured out how to operate with the new system.
In some cases with the system around the system sort of going through the usual things you go through on one of these big system implementations.
But anyway the operation is certainly back and while it's -- we have our share of challenges we're able to deliver what we need to deliver.
The only unfortunate part is we did not eat into the miss that we had in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> So what was the aftermarket sales in the quarter in terms of directionally up down how much? On a year-over-year basis it was...
It was up low-single digits.
Yes it was up but up modestly on a year-over-year basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one just confirming.
So on the R&amp;D expectation for the full year I think it was expected to be somewhere in the kind of $500 million low $500 million range.
That hasn't moved as a result of kind of the development timelines? Is that still the right place holder? Yes these issues on certification really don't have much of an impact on the R&amp;D front at this stage of the game.
Most of the R&amp;D's invested.
It's simply a timing on going through the final certification.
If you look at Cessna a lot of the R&amp;D now has moved into the Latitude program.
And as Doug said earlier the Bell Bell's on track and relatively level load in terms of its R&amp;D investments kind of driven by the 525 and now the SLS and V-280.
Research Division</strong> And only one other one another manufacturer had similar issues with delays in avionics caused the avionics suppliers to forward advances to the manufacturer.
Is that something you're pursuing as a result of the delay in certification? No it's not.
Look I think our supplier has been very genuine in their efforts to get this thing done.
I think that there were some deals made with other customers because frankly they said "Look we've got more on our plate than we can handle.
And we're going to go focus on getting this deal done for Cessna " because we were kind of first in the queue.
And so I think we are the guy I believe that's getting the top priority and getting the energy put into it.
And look in the grand scheme of things I don't like having a certification date slip out but this is a relatively mild modest slip.
And I do believe these guys are dedicating the resource and everything they can to keep it on track.
So no at this point we're not in a position to try to go look for any kind of damages.
I think they're in good faith doing everything they can to get us going.
Our next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> This is Kristine Liwag calling in for Ron this morning.
I guess my question comes from about Systems margins.
So margins were down about 200 basis points this quarter even though revenue was up 8.5%.
I just wondering if you can walk through maybe the factors that drove the margin contraction in this quarter? Well I think the most significant element is that these fee-for-service contracts were basically booking at 0 profit right? So we had taken a charge last year and basically did a total program or task order estimate to complete that took it from a loss contract and basically booked forward on a breakeven basis.
And so obviously there is dilution to our overall margin rates associated with that.
So I think if you looked at the margins in our other businesses they're standing where we would expect them to be in the double-digit above double-digit kind of margin rates but we're seeing dilution from our UAS business principally.
Yes the other place we saw a little bit of margin impact there from a volume-mix standpoint is in our armored security vehicle where we're doing more reset volume relative to production volume than we had in some previous quarters.
And so we saw some additional ASV volume that was reset volume with lower mix rather than production.
Research Division</strong> And last week I heard from Defense Secretary Hagel that sequestration could cut investment [ph] account by 15% to 20% in fiscal year '14 so starting October 1.
This cut is larger than what we've heard before.
So are you seeing any sort of customer behavior changes? Or do you see further downside risk to your defense outlook for the rest of the year particularly in the second half? I'm sorry for the rest of this year? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Because right -- fiscal year '14 would start on October 1.
Yes.
No I don't think we would expect that.
And for us like it's principally driven by the fact that we have a multiyear deal around V-22s.
So we know what those unit volumes look like.
Our other big deals with Cessna or at Bell rather are around H-1 and the unit volumes on the production side of that have been stable.
Obviously our Armored Security Vehicle businesses our precision munition businesses are virtually all international businesses at this point so they really have no exposure.
The area that we're probably the most sensitive with respect to sequestration issues is around our unmanned air vehicle business and some of our intelligence software and geospatial analysis intel businesses which are funded more on a year-to-year basis.
And so when they change budgeting those things can be affected year-to-year.
And we've seen some pressure in those businesses but not something that I would say is material.
And we certainly don't have any reason to believe there'd be any material change to this calendar year with respect to the sequestration further sequestration discussions.
Our last question comes from the line of Steve Levenson with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update on the timetable for the 525 please? Sure.
525 is progressing very nicely.
We'll be flying that aircraft next year which was our original plan in 2014.
We're obviously in work with the FAA around certification dates.
We have not announced a certification date yet for that aircraft.
But I think we -- it's still our expectation that we'll be flying it next year.
And we'll likely certify -- we haven't given a hard date to customers yet but probably sometime out in 2015.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last what stage are you on partnering on the V-280? Or is it a little premature for that still? We have a number of partners that are part of the V-280 program.
And to be honest I don't know how much we've publicly announced.
So I got to be careful here that I don't announce something we haven't announced.
But we have several partners.
It's a very -- it's not a structure like we had with Boeing on the V-22 right where it's a Bell-Boeing function.
But we have a number of very strong partners that will have portions of the V-280 product.
And those discussions are frankly pretty mature at this point but we just haven't publicly announced them yet.
All right thank you ladies and -- go ahead.
Thank you very much ladies and gentlemen.
Go ahead Tani.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Textron Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Doug Wilburne Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Roxanne and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Moving now to third quarter results starting with Slide #3.
Total revenues in the quarter were $2.9 billion down 3% from a year ago.
Our income from continuing operations was $0.35 per share down from $0.48 in the third quarter of 2012.
Third quarter manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was $269 million compared to $153 million in last year's third quarter.
We contributed $60 million to our pension plans during the quarter.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
Third quarter revenues were down as growth at Bell Industrial and Textron Systems was more than offset by decline in Cessna as the light to mid-sized business jet market remained soft.
Operationally we saw good performance at Systems and Industrial.
At Cessna despite cost actions that we implemented in the second quarter our results reflected continuing weakness in the business jet market.
Margins and revenue at Bell were below our expectations due to manufacturing efficiencies associated with labor disruptions resulting from negotiations with our UAW bargaining employees in Fort Worth and with the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system.
The factory inefficiencies had a negative impact on cost and our ability to ship aftermarket spare parts.
This did not prevent our downstream and final assembly and completions centers for meeting our aircraft delivery commitments.
The labor issue is now behind us as this past weekend our employees did ratify a new 5-year contract.
However we will not fully recover with respect to margins in the fourth quarter as higher-cost work in progress makes its way to our production lines and as we continue the ERP integration process.
From a market perspective we saw another significant increase in our commercial business during the third quarter with 54 units delivered up from 46 last year.
Recent notable successes were Bell commercial products around the globe including the first deliveries of our 407GX into both Poland and Russia; 7 orders for new helicopters at the 2013 Jet Expo show in Moscow; delivery of the first 2 429s into the U.K.; a purchase agreement signed at 2013 Helitech show in London for up to 20 helicopters for a large global operator; and orders for 14 helicopters in China.
On the new product development front we continue to make progress on our short light single and 525 Relentless programs and remain on track to fly both of these new aircraft by the end of next year.
On the military side we delivered 10 V-22s and 7 H-1s in the quarter compared to 11 V-22s and 5 H-1s in last year's third quarter.
During the quarter we successfully demonstrated the V-22's ability to function as an air refueling tanker which will enhance its versatility and value by expanding its mission set for future applications.
We also recently announced a number of important teaming partners on our V-280 platform for the joint multi-role tech demonstration program including Lockheed Martin General Electric Moog and GKN.
Moving to Cessna.
Demand continues to be soft in the light to mid-sized business jet segment as we delivered 25 jets in the quarter down from 41 last year.
Cessna recorded a segment loss of $23 million as a result of the low volume and a number of headwinds in the quarter including used aircraft valuation adjustments.
Looking forward and taking into account where we are year-to-date at the current state of the business jet market we're taking a more conservative view of Cessna full year deliveries.
Despite the lack of a near-term recovery we continue to believe that the global light to mid-sized jet market is a growth market in the long term and we remain committed to our strategy of investing in new products.
On that front we're on track to certify and begin delivering the M2 and the new Sovereign this quarter.
And we're on track to certify and deliver the world's fastest commercial jet the new Citation X in the first quarter of next year.
Our new wide-body Latitude is also on track to our first scheduled flight for next year as we completed wing mate on our first test aircraft this past quarter.
So we believe we're doing the right things for the future success of the business with respect to attractive new products competitive cost structure superior service network and expanded sales coverage.
Moving now to our Finance segment.
Our captive business is performing well although the loan originations have been light consistent with the soft new jet sales at Cessna.
On the noncaptive side we continue to liquidate remaining assets at levels favorable to book value which benefited segment profit in the quarter.
Shifting to Industrial.
We saw good top line growth reflecting growth in auto markets and the impact of the Sherman &amp; Reilly acquisition last quarter at Greenlee.
We also had good execution with an overall margin improvement of 170 basis points.
On the new product front during the quarter we introduced our new hybrid-powered Bad Boy Ambush iS.
The vehicle gives customers 3 power modes gas for long range electric for quiet approach important to hunting applications for our hybrid mode for greater power.
Moving to Systems.
Revenues were up slightly over last year reflecting growth in our precision munitions product line and margins improved reflecting better performance across most of the businesses.
On the vehicle front preparations for the Canadian Forces' Tactical Armoured Patrol Vehicle program continued with customer testing and training activities progressing well on the first 5 preproduction vehicles.
We also signed an order for 28 COMMANDO armored vehicles for the Colombian National Police force.
And we're actively working with a number of customers around the world on other vehicle opportunities.
On the precision munitions front we continued to deliver product to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia under a contract that was definitized during the quarter.
And we have a number of international opportunities under active discussion.
With respect to fee-for-service UAS program we continue to experience unacceptable quality from our engine supplier.
Therefore we've decided to transition the manufacturer of that engine into Lycoming which we believe will allow us to improve performance on the contracts.
Looking forward across Systems we have a substantial amount of global sales activity underway and continue to believe this business can maintain a flat to slightly growing top line over the next several years.
To wrap up the third quarter was disappointing with respect to performance at Bell and the continued lack of sales strength at Cessna.
The Bell labor situation has been resolved.
And this will allow the Bell management team to return their focus to ERP integration and improving factory productivity.
We expected to get our M2 and Sovereign models certified.
And that should provide a nice pickup for Cessna revenue and profit in the fourth quarter.
Overall we are seeing improved performance at Systems and we'll continue to pursue global sales opportunities.
Finally in Industrial we demonstrated solid execution and we should expect to see top line growth and margin going forward.
With that I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Manufacturing segment profit in the quarter was $195 million down $59 million from the third quarter of 2012 and a $65 million decrease in manufacturing revenues.
Let's look at how each of the segments contributed starting with Cessna.
Revenues at Cessna were down $185 million on a year-over-year basis reflecting lower new jet volume partially offset by growth in aftermarket revenue.
The segment had a loss of $23 million compared to a profit of $30 million in last year's third quarter.
At Bell revenues were up $87 million primarily due to higher military and commercial volumes.
Segment profit decreased $34 million primarily reflecting unfavorable performance associated with the labor disruption and ERP system integration issues.
At Textron Systems revenues increased $5 million primarily due to higher volumes in Weapons and Sensor products partially offset by lower UAS and Marine &amp; Land Systems volumes.
Segment profit increased $14 million reflecting good performance across most of Textron Systems' product lines.
Industrial revenues increased $28 million primarily due to the impact of acquisitions and increased volumes at our fuel systems business.
Segment profit increased $14 million primarily due to the improved performance and the higher volume.
Moving to Finance.
Total Finance receivables ended the quarter down $94 million from the prior quarter.
This segment had a profit of $13 million.
Nonaccrual accounts ended the quarter at $105 million while 60-day delinquencies ended at $88 million.
Moving to corporate items.
Corporate expenses were $34 million in the quarter down $4 million from last year.
Interest expense was $25 million down $6 million from last year primarily reflecting the retirement of our convertible debt this past May.
Moving to cash flow.
We generated $269 million in free cash flow which reflected better working capital performance.
To wrap up as Scott discussed earlier we are reducing our outlook for the year at Bell and Cessna.
On this basis we are now targeting full year manufacturing cash flow from operations before pension contributions in the range of $200 million to $300 million with pension contributions of about $200 million.
And we are adjusting our full year EPS outlook to a range of $1.75 to $1.85 per share.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
So operator we can open the lines for questions.
Our first question comes from the line of Peter Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hey Scott can you give us a sense of how the government shutdown is expected to impact your fourth quarter? It sounds like you don't think it will have any impact at all.
I don't think it will Peter.
I mean obviously we had some concerns in the early part of the shutdown just because the FAA and the government inspectors are pretty important.
Frankly on the military side the DCMA did provide inspectors an on-site support for the Bell folks even when the shutdown was going on.
And now that the thing is over any concerns we would've had around FAA and certification has pretty well been alleviated.
So I would say no impact.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the issues that you'd had previously on the Garmin avionics for the new programs those are resolved as well? Yes that's correct.
Those have been resolved.
And the M2 and Sovereign and Citation X test flights and [indiscernible] have been progressing very well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wondered what your sense is in terms of if you could sort of bifurcate your thoughts on the market versus kind of your stiffer pricing terms that you've been implementing out there.
Well as we've talked about sort of coming into -- after the first quarter Peter we stopped doing a lot of the very deep discounting that I think was helping to create some demand in the marketplace.
As we went through the second quarter obviously we saw the impacts of that in significantly reduced deliveries.
We pretty well held those prices both sequentially and year-over-year in terms of third quarter so we're keeping the pricing around where we expected it to be.
And I think as a result we're just seeing what's the normal market out there as opposed to dragging people into it that aren't ready to do upgrades or trade-in activity.
And so that's reflecting in lower volume which again I think for the long term is healthy for the market.
We've got to let this cycle play through.
Certainly as we went through the third quarter we continued to see a fairly active used market a lot of transactions that are happening over there.
I mean in our case we certainly sold more aircraft than we took in trades and we continue to see the number of used aircraft available for sale particularly in those relatively newer aircraft continue to bleed down.
So I think at this stage of the game we're not happy with where we are in the cycle but we're letting the cycle play through.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And comps essentially are easier for you from here on out in terms of having new aircraft to market.
Would you agree with that? Yes.
I don't think there's any question.
When you look at the M2 and the new X had a very nice receptivity.
And again we're not competing against relatively new used aircraft.
The Sovereign obviously we've been out there now doing demo flights over the last few months and have started to book orders on that.
And we still have orders to go here for the fourth quarter.
But yes I think there's no question that new product does matter in the market and does help to create demand and stimulate people to do upgrades and trade-ins.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Scott staying on the Cessna front I saw your backlog there was up versus last quarter.
I was wondering if you could comment on where that might have come from.
Well we continue to book orders for sales that will be either fourth quarter or going forward.
Obviously we started to see some Sovereign orders come into the backlog and had no sales in that area.
We continue to see some sales activity around M2s and Latitude.
So in general Robert I'd say it's just kind of a -- sales activity has gotten better.
Certainly it got a little bit better in the September timeframe.
And as a result again a part of it unfortunately is fairly low deliveries in the third quarter generated some positive book-to-bill.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly on Cessna there was a comment you said about a negative adjustment due to pricing.
I was wondering if you clarify what the situation is there.
And also maybe in conjunction with that what you are seeing in terms of pricing in the used market.
So pricing on new aircraft was pretty stable not a lot of change there from where we were in the second quarter.
There does continue to be softness in the used market in terms of pricing.
So I think if you look at BRF and blue book we continue to see downward motion.
So that did result in several million dollars of residual write-down of used aircraft beyond what we saw let's say in the second quarter.
So I'd say there's still softness a lot of activity and quite a lot of transactions but still softness in the pricing in the used market but I would say stability in terms of pricing in the new market.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just thirdly you mentioned on Textron Systems you are still confident that it's a flat to up environment.
Are you anticipating a more negative drag from sequester within that forecast? As we look across those business segments Robert so first of all the precision munitions business is virtually entirely driven by international sales.
So there's really nothing going on there from a sequester standpoint.
The same is largely true in our Marine &amp; Land Systems business.
Most of the sales particularly in the vehicle side of the business international at this point we do have the Ship-to-Shore Connector program which is a U.S.
government program.
Although at this point that's in the development phase so it's not a lot of money.
The business which is most subject to annual budgets and U.S.
budgets really is in our UAS business although we haven't seen really an impact at this point of sequestration.
And we do have some intelligence in the software businesses where we have seen some reductions in the number of licenses and things like that.
But at this point Robert we certainly have not seen anything material from that I would say directly from a sequestration impact.
Our next question is from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> 2 quick questions.
Scott can you just update us all on the cadence of V-22 volumes as we move out over the next couple of years? And then I'd also be curious to know -- well there's been some press reports about Beechcraft potentially being for sale.
Are you aware of Beechcraft being for sale at this point? So on the firsthand with respect to V-22 the multiyear -- and I know there's been a couple of people with questions so I think a couple of aircraft moved in terms of which year they're delivered.
And there's nothing particularly special going on there.
It's just when the contract was definitized the number of deliveries per year moved a little bit from what was originally discussed.
But the multiyear contract made pushing aircraft between years.
But it still is unchanged with respect to the 99-plus so far one of the options which has been exercised.
So there's no material change in terms of the multiyear too.
With respect to Beechcraft look we see the things in the paper.
I know there's a lot of rumors and whatnot banging around.
Look our view of Beechcraft is the same as we've discussed in the past.
There's certainly interest that we would have in some of those assets in terms of the status of what's going on.
And all the rumors in the articles I guess at this point I wouldn't comment on any of that.
Research Division</strong> And on the V-22 is there any way for you to offer a specific cadence for the next several years just to make sure we all model it correctly? We can certainly do that.
I'm not sure I would do it on the call.
But I mean we -- again it's a contract it's a program record.
And if there's any confusion out there as to how many aircraft in which years we can certainly put something out that clarifies that.
I mean it's in our presentation Jason.
It's 36 next year and 22 in '15.
We have a question from the line of John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Scott I was hoping to ask about how you're thinking about breakeven margins at Cessna.
And what I'm getting at is of course the environment is soft but you've also changed your pricing strategy a bit.
You also continue to sort of restructure and try to drive productivity improvements.
How many jets do we need to sell in a quarter to hit breakeven more or less? Well look it's a tricky question because obviously it depends a lot on the mix.
What I can tell you is that the way we see it right now is given where the market has been the amount of activity that's out there right now we feel that about the midpoint of where we're guiding to you guys would basically reflect sort of a breakeven year for Cessna.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And I was also hoping to follow up on Bell margins.
I thought I heard you say that margins wouldn't recover in the fourth quarter.
I was hoping that you could just sort of elaborate on the specific impact of what's going on with ERP.
And if we look out sort of a year from now should we see margins kind of recover to what we saw earlier this year? I'm just trying to kind of understand some of the nuance there.
Well so the issue for us of course is that obviously you saw some of the margin impact in this quarter as a result of higher cost.
But at the same time obviously we're a relatively long-cycle manufacturing business.
And so there's a fair bit of product that is work in progress which is then executed at that higher cost with those inefficiencies.
And so that will turn into revenue here as we go forward which is why we said we would not expect a lot of change in terms of margin rate going through the fourth quarter.
I don't think we want to get into 2014 guidance at this point.
But needless to say we're going to be pressured in terms of the margins as we go through the balance of this year and in the beginning of next year as that higher-cost less-efficient production works its way through into revenue which will happen over the course of the next year.
So the margin rates I think if you look at it year-to-date where we are on Bell is at around probably an aggregate of about 12.5%.
And that's probably a number that we would expect to see through the balance of this year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And is there anything you can tell us just to add clarity to the kind of the impact this quarter from the labor disruption as opposed to the ERP? Jason it's very difficult because these things are sort of compounding problems right when you're going through one of these big IT implementation systems.
We've run into a number of issues in the implementation and just sort of working our way through those challenges.
And when you do that you need to do a certain amount of sort of brute force to try to keep things going.
And unfortunately what we ran into was at the same time we needed to have kind of that brute force to work our way through it.
We went through a labor disruption.
So it'd be very very difficult to say how many dollars is attributable to one versus the other.
I think the thing we're focused on at this point is at least we have the labor issue behind us.
And now we have the human resources and our ability to get our hourly workforce focused on delivering output and the management team focused on resolving those issues that we still have outstanding on the integration of the ERP system whereas up until now frankly our management team and salaried teams were working most of their day jobs during the day and were working a lot of overtime and weekends to try to help make sure we got deliveries completed for customers because we didn't have the ability to get our hourly team in there doing the production work.
So hard to tease out exactly.
And really the impact here is I think we can kind of handle one or the other.
The fact that we had them both at the same time was a pretty serious blow.
We have a question from the line of John Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First at Bell Scott were there -- or Frank were there -- was there a negative cumulative adjustment taken on any of your major programs that was going to enable you to bounce back a little bit in Q4? Or is this all just regular way of improvement we're expecting sequentially? Yes I'm not sure I have the data to say any kind of a -- are you talking about a kind of cume catch or [indiscernible] adjustments? Research Division</strong> Yes on H-1 or V-22.
No there was no meaningful negative adjustment.
It kind of was prior-period adjustment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the spares issue you've highlighted for a couple of quarters or maybe 2 or 3 the ERP system and how that's negatively impacted your ability to ship.
Is the spares demand still where it was? Because some others had been talking about significantly lower aftermarket demand in the military side for rotorcraft.
No our demand actually has been up.
So as a result we've actually been building some backlog in terms of spares.
So just to be clear we kind of went through -- again this is sort of a -- I hate to make this messy but we had sort of a 2-step a process here okay? The initial problems we talked about with respect to spares in the early part of the year when we first turned on our new system really had to do with our inability to ship.
And when I say that I mean that the IT system in terms of generating demand people knowing what parts to go in and get off the shelf and put it in a box and ship it to our customers we had a lot of those sorts of issues when we first started our new IT system.
Those have largely been resolved.
So the issues we have now in terms of building backlog is these are parts that we need to be manufacturing.
And so the slowdowns and the inability to get enough hours into the factory to actually build the parts has what's been now slowing down our deliveries.
So it's purely a matter now of working the stuff through and getting the volume out of the factories.
It is not in any way shape or form demand-related.
We've actually been building backlogs.
So there are demand for those parts we've just got to get them through the factory.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then over at Cessna just on the valuation adjustment you said it was several million dollars larger than the one you took in Q2.
So it was double-digit? Because I thought you said $8 million in Q2.
Yes.
And I think we were about $11 million.
If you look at forfeiture deposit and used aircraft valuation that was about minus $11 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on the cash flow you took it down by $100 million to $200 million which is obviously more than the reduction in earnings.
How much of that is the residual issues at Bell roughly? And how much of that is either incremental used aircraft or white tails that you expect to have at Cessna? I'd say it's predominantly related to our view on the number of Cessna deliveries we'll have.
So we'll have more finished goods inventory at Cessna than we would have originally expected.
Our next question comes from Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Scott somewhere in the call on Cessna you made the comment letting the cycle play through which was -- and the timing of that is obviously the million-dollar question here.
So I just wondered if big picture you could walk us through your own latest version of attempting to quantify how much longer that actually takes? Well Noah certainly we are watching the number of used aircraft available for sale.
That's I think one of the key if not the most significant indicator at this point.
And I think there's 2 reasons for that.
Obviously one as we look at new aircraft that we're introducing for which there are either none or virtually no used aircraft that are like that kind of a product we see a pretty strong uptake of the product.
In the cases where we're still selling a product where there's a significant competition out there in terms of relatively new used aircraft we still see sluggish behavior in that marketplace.
And so I think we watch that number pretty carefully.
And certainly there's some volatility as you see aircraft kind of coming in and going out of the market.
But in general we continue to see the number of used available-for-sale particularly in that less than 5-year category continuing to drop.
Now the pace of that is not as fast as we like but it does continue to go down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when you're looking out to 2014 for Cessna production I know it's still October do you sort of have a law of small numbers situation where Cessna almost has to be up a decent percentage just because the starting point is so low and you have these multiple new product intros? Or can some of those legacy programs where you still have a used product issue decline enough to actually keep the total production number closer to flat or even down again? Well look Noah I hope it's a combination of both of those things.
I mean let me just give you anecdotally if you look at something like a CJ4 okay which has been out there in the market for a while and certainly as you came out of '08 in the '09 '10 '11 you had a fair number of used aircraft available for sale that were CJ4s.
We came into this year with around 9 of those that were out there on the market.
And I think you saw CJ4 sales were pretty tough in the first couple of quarters.
And we got down at the end of this quarter we're sitting there where we know of 1 used CJ4 out there that's less than 5 years old and we see 8 sales of new CJ4s.
So I mean there's certainly a correlation of activity between what's out there that we're competing with in the used market versus what we can sell on the new.
So I do think that that trend in terms of our volume we certainly have expectation that will continue to pick up as you see these used aircraft go away.
On the other hand certainly not by design we're working off a very low base.
So yes at some point the absorption of those used aircraft is going to turn into demand for new aircraft.
And again on the new models if you'll again choose a perfect example right that we don't have M2s out there in the market.
There are no used M2s available because it's a brand-new product.
And as a result we've seen very strong uptake in terms of order generation.
So I think part of it is absolutely look we are working off a very low base.
And if you go back and you look at historical cycles and sort of average out how many aircraft should go into the market we're on the way low side of that right now just given where we are in the cycle.
And so we would expect sort of it has to go up right? But again I think the -- we've been thinking that for a while Noah.
I mean let's be honest.
It's gone down lower than we would have ever imagined it to go down in terms of number of new aircraft being sold into the market.
And I don't just mean Citation.
I mean you look at the whole market right? I mean the number of new aircraft in light to mid from anybody is all total is a very small number.
So I think that it would tell you that eventually the cycle has to move in the other direction.
And of course I think the new product will help that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Just one other one on Systems.
With the fee-for-service product I'm just curious if you can talk about the risk you see of cost implications as you are making that switch back internally or if you expect that to be fairly smooth.
No I would expect it to be fairly smooth Noah.
It's going to be accomplished in several phases right? So to start with we've been able to bring in already some of the manufacturing where we were experiencing pretty significant quality issues.
But in that case I mean in large part we are manufacturing to the same sort of design criteria.
And I think there are opportunities beyond just manufacturing at higher quality but also putting some design improvement into this product to make it a more robust product.
And so that will happen here over the next 6 to 12 months as we go forward.
So the cost side of this thing Noah is not something I worry.
I mean obviously we're spending some money to do that.
But that's not the big issue here.
I mean the issue for us has just been when you lose -- when one of these engines fails you lose an aircraft.
And so the cost of loss of that aircraft which is both airframes and sensors and navigation systems that cost is quite significant compared to the trivial amount of cost of actually manufacturing this engine.
So that's what's unfortunate with this thing.
I mean we have a system out there that's a very complicated system.
It involves control systems and launchers and obviously airframes and communication systems and navigation systems all of which are working fabulously but the weak point in the system is this engine.
So it's not costing us a lot.
We couldn't spend too much right now to make that engine work.
Question from Ron Epstein with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So just maybe a yet even bigger-picture question.
So Scott when you think about the portfolio of businesses that you have I think among investors kind of the elephant in the room is what happens if we go through another year or 2 and the mid and light market still is punky right? I agree with you completely that longer-term it's going to come back.
Who knows exactly when? Maybe in 6 months that'd be great.
But say that doesn't happen right? So say as the leader of this organization you're looking at your businesses say Cessna is still punky 2 years from now.
Then the question becomes all right Bell gets a little bit tougher.
What do you do? I mean how do you manage through that right? I think that's probably I think one of the biggest questions right now among at least the people I talk to.
I mean how do you think about that? Look Ron you do some things we've been trying to do over the last few years.
You continue to focus on both the cost of your current operations to try to get enough productivity to improve as much as you can.
You try to make sure that you're investing in the thing so that when the cycle does turn you're in as good a position as you can be in to do that.
So I think if you look at Cessna today there's no question we've been in a very very deep down cycle.
But as you know -- and again I don't know either.
Is it 6 months? Is it 2 years? That's sort of the unknowable.
But the cycle will come back around and you've got to make sure that you're positioned to capitalize on that.
When we've seen up cycles in this business we've been able to capitalize and take advantage of that.
But you don't do that if you don't have competitive product and you don't have the right service network you don't have the right sales force out there.
So I think that's what we'll continue to focus on.
If you look at where we are today obviously we've spent a lot of R&amp;D dollars but we're on the cusp here of having the new M2 having the Sovereign having the new X.
So I think over time those investments will have proven to be the right things to do.
As you look into 2015 you're going to have the Latitude coming in.
I think that's the right thing to do.
That program is coming along very well.
It's a significant change in our product portfolio at Cessna and I think one that would be very very attractive to a lot of our customers out there that want to upgrade from current product into our wider-body aircraft.
So we -- I don't know Ron if there's really anything you would do different.
If you mothball the business if you don't invest in having the right products you're not going to be able to capitalize on this market when it does turn.
So calling it is virtually impossible but I think that we have to continue to do that.
I'd say the same thing is true at Bell.
We know we have enjoyed a great ramp on V-22.
We know where the production volumes of V-22 are going.
But we also know that we have the ability to grow that business through the commercial side.
We've been successful doing that over the last couple of years through some product upgrades through better focus in terms of how we go to market in the commercial world.
But we also know we need new product and so the investments in the 525 the investments in the XLS clearly longer-term investment on the military on the V-280.
All we can do is make sure that we're making the right investments and that we're ready to serve that market as it turns at Cessna and that we're ready to expand the portfolio and continue to gain share in the commercial market at Bell.
Research Division</strong> And I mean is there any point -- you probably can't answer this so I'll just preface it with that.
I mean is there any point where you -- I think you can kind of see what's going to happen in the 2Ds [ph] at Bell.
We're not exactly sure with Cessna.
Although long term we do think it's going to come back that were you step out a year or 2 or 3 from now and you have to do something strategically very different either just pursue a different path and strategy to continue to grow the company.
I mean do you ever think about that? Or is it just too soon to even think about that? Well certainly across all the businesses we look at things that we can do that are complementary to those businesses to try to give us some more markets and give us some abilities to grow beyond just that quarter that we're in today.
But now look as we talked about before we're not going to stray very far from these things.
We need to do things that are the same customers in the same markets and the places that we understand and feel comfortable from an M&amp;A standpoint.
In terms of the current businesses I mean if you look at Cessna Ron I mean look if we knew we were 2 years from seeing a market rebound it'd be wonderful if you had some concept of a way that you could just sort of mothball a business.
I don't think there's any precedent for doing that.
I mean this is a very highly technical business.
You need to have a great engineering team you need to have a great sales force and you can continue obviously to service the customers that we have out there today.
So it would be great if you can go into sort of a state of suspended animation.
I don't think you can do that.
I think you hunker down as much as you can on cost and productivity.
But I think you've got to continue to make sure that you're doing the right things in terms of new product because that's what you're going to be rewarded for when the market does turn.
You don't make those investments then you're not going to have the upside when it does go.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then maybe one last question related to that.
Just I thought probably 1 of the coolest new things out there in the last 6 months was the Scorpion.
Nobody has asked about that.
I mean can you give us some more color on the Scorpion and maybe more specifically how it came to be and maybe what your hopes are for what it could mean for Textron? Well Scorpion is a good example of some of the things we're trying to do Ron.
I mean and obviously we haven't talked much about that.
We kept the thing pretty well a secret for almost 2 years.
But as we look at what kind of technical skills we have what we think is going on in market dynamics and where growth opportunities are in something that's pretty close to home namely fixed wing aviation our perspective was that there is going to be a need out there in the market for a military aircraft that is something that has a better performance envelope more capability than a turboprop but not something that has the price point and the sophistication and both the acquisition cost and the maintenance and operating cost of something like an F-35.
And so if you look at historically the U.S.
has had a family a range of military product -- the industry frankly has usually had a range of military product that span all these various price points and capability points.
And the trend seems like it's been for the last 20 years or so to only invest in very very high-performance very high-end fighter/attack aircraft.
And look these are amazing machines.
An F-35 can do amazing things and F-22 and so on and so forth.
But we see a very large customer base out there in both the U.S.
as well as a lot of international opportunities that will never be able to afford aircraft at those price points and yet need a capability and need to replace aircraft here in the coming years that historically have been more affordable to acquire and operate.
And so we decided this was something that was an investment worth making.
And so I think we positioned ourselves now where we can enter a segment where we have not participated in many many many years because we see a gap capability in the industry.
And so so far I'm not talking too much about the program yet.
I mean we're making very good progress towards first flight.
And just last week we were able to run full engine power and verify inlet designs and airflows.
So I mean we're getting very close to starting taxi and flight tests.
We've had a lot of interest from the international community as well as within the U.S.
about the aircraft.
And so it's still obviously in its very early days but we think it represents significant growth opportunity for the company.
We're not talking too much about it yet because it's not quantifiable yet right? But we're working on it.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just one last question and then I'll hop off I know other people have questions.
Most of your peers as you know if you look at any of the other defense contractors typically they're not willing to so far put their skin in the game in terms of making a company-funded investment in a new product particularly a piece of big hardware like that.
When you thought about the business case for it can you add any color around and I commend you guys for doing it I mean I hope it's a huge success about doing some R&amp;D on your own P&amp;L for a defense product? How did you think about that trade? Because most of your peers don't do it or if they do it they do it to a very teeny tiny extent.
Well Ron I think within the defense community if you look on a purely defense basis we've been trained over the years that the way this works is that you have a customer who comes out with a requirement and then you bid to that requirement and you design and develop to that requirement.
That can take a very long time.
It's a very very complex process a very expensive process.
And in this case we felt there's -- this was really thought of more along commercial lines.
In other words when you look at our commercial businesses we think about market opportunities we talk to lots of different customers and then we derive a requirement and we go design and build to that requirement.
And then we look to go market that capability to many different customers.
So our view again seeing what we think is a market opportunity the whole genesis of this thing was derived more like you would think about the way the process we use for a commercial product talking to lots of different customers looking at the whole competitive dynamic and the marketplace needs and deriving and designing and building to our own requirement.
So it's a military application that has been derived through a more commercial process and as a result moving more at commercial speeds and at commercial costs.
So it is different.
But I think what we're trying to do here is say "Look we understand military we understand how you market and sell to the defense -- to the DoDs around the world but we're able to leverage and utilize more of a commercial practice in terms of market identification design and build which we think is kind of a unique capability because we understand military but we understand commercial." We have a question from Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Cessna could you give us some color? Was R&amp;D up? Or where was R&amp;D relative to prior quarters? Yes.
Cai R&amp;D was up.
As you can imagine we're sort of in the -- we're sort of at a point right now with both the M2 and the Sovereign and the new Citation X all in the certification process and a lot of work going on on the Latitude program.
As I said we've got first wing mate so there's a lot of work going on getting that aircraft prepped and ready to go into flight tests starting next year.
So R&amp;D was certainly up in the quarter.
And I would expect that we'll continue to see a lot of R&amp;D spending through the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I mean can you give us some quantification $5 million to $10 million or more? No Cai we haven't historically done this on a by-business basis.
I guess all I would say is the R&amp;D spending is on track and consistent with what we guided for the year.
And the total number we gave you guys we spend about 3/4 of that.
So I'd say I mean yes it was up but in line with what we had guided in terms of R&amp;D spending across the company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And then can you give us some color by geography of demand at Cessna? It stays -- both orders and deliveries in the quarter Cai were about 2/3 domestic and about 1/3 international.
And if you look at deliveries it was 2/3 1/3.
And that 1/3 was pretty evenly spread between Latin America Europe and Asia Pacific.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned near-breakeven in the fourth quarter.
That would imply I mean by my math something like $80 million a swing of $100 million from the third $400 million uptick or 26% incremental margin.
Is that kind of the way you're looking at it? Yes.
I still think as we've kind of always talked Cai I think incremental margins at Cessna should be around 25%.
Now when we go quarter-to-quarter we had some quarters where it's been more or less than that up or down.
And frankly that's largely an artifact of the numbers are pretty small.
And so if you get a few million dollars of aircraft valuation change or you get a few million dollars of a LIFO or whatever adjustment it's going to swing around a little bit.
But yes 25% incremental conversion is about right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then pension maybe you can give us some color.
What was your investment performance like year-to-date? And maybe give us some preliminary color on where you think that could be both in terms of P&amp;L impact and cash impact next year.
Sure.
We haven't obviously made any decisions about kind of necessarily the '14 plan.
But as it relates to performance to date we've been above our kind of expected return levels so we're positive to that.
Obviously we need to close out the year but that is positive.
As we look at '14 I think we should get some tailwind on the pension side.
We'll get a little bit of a tailwind from just with lower prior-period amortization expense.
From a P&amp;L standpoint that's a $25 million-ish type area when you look at what would flow through the P&amp;L in 2014.
And as we sit here right now the discount rate if you valued it today it's probably 75 basis points higher than it was a year ago.
And that would give you another $25-ish million P&amp;L-type impact so as much as kind of $50 million-ish P&amp;L impact based on where we are today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And then a last question with regard to Beechcraft if you were to look at it under what circumstances would you kind of buy any or all of Beech? What would you -- I mean what kind of financial metrics do you have to see if you were to consider kind of any transaction? It would have to be good.
Cai I just don't think -- I mean it's -- given the nature of where all this stuff is I just don't think we'd want to comment.
We certainly wouldn't going into any kind of commentary.
It just wouldn't be appropriate because they're rumors.
Our next question then comes from the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
A couple of questions on Cessna.
One if I look at the Q3 profit or loss after the $11 million inventory adjustment you said so it would have been up about $2 million from the third -- from the second quarter making the same adjustments in essence a loss of $12 million versus a loss of $14 million.
Based on what you just said of 25% incremental margins since revenues were up 33% you would have expect that the sequential profit to be up $8 million.
So is that difference of 6% primarily R&amp;D? Or is it reflecting the mix difference where you had probably lower -- higher-margin XLSs versus higher deliveries of the lower margin CJ4s? Yes George I think your math is absolutely correct.
And this was referring to -- when we're talking about these spreads of $8 million a few million dollars of used aircraft valuation some numbers a small number of millions dollars of R&amp;D being up you look at the fact that we only had a small -- the 4 XLSs which is some amount of mix that's in there.
These small numbers you can take 3 or 4 factors and pretty quickly get to $8 million.
Okay.
And then Scott if you look at the orders itself in the third quarter there were $654 million.
That's the best third quarter order number since in at least 4 years or so.
Is there anything to draw that that is a beginning of some improvement in the market? Or is it just reflecting orders for the newer planes that you have? Well George I mean we can only hope right? If you look at the quarter I mean I can tell you that July and August were -- which are typically slow were very very slow this year.
September was certainly considerably better.
We just -- it'd be too early to comment at this point to know whether that's going to continue through the fourth quarter or not.
So certainly that -- the number on an absolute basis is encouraging.
The dynamic of the fact that it was virtually all the month of September is encouraging.
But whether that's the beginning of anything or how that plays out through the fourth quarter obviously remains to be seen.
And then one how much was the aftermarket up at Cessna? I know that's been running pretty double-digit increases.
Yes.
Aftermarket was up year-over-year at 25%.
15% of that or 15 percentage points was organic and 10% was due to some of the service center acquisition activity that's taking place.
Okay.
And then just one last one.
Commercial helicopter deliveries I mean last year they were up 20-plus or so in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
Would you expect them to be up at least 20% again or maybe even more? Right.
It's going to be in that range George.
We would expect another pretty significant growth in Q4.
Question from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick cleanups.
You talked about the pension expense side.
Can you talk about the funding side for next year Frank? And also with respect to CapEx for the full year what's the current guidance? Yes.
On the funding side again we haven't made any decision yet.
We'll kind of see how things close out here.
But I would expect that the funding will come down from what we've been doing in the past couple of years.
So I think that will be we think higher discount rates and with good returns and therefore a significant reduction in the overall kind of liability relative to the asset pool I think we'll be looking at pulling our funding activity down as we look at 2014.
On the CapEx side for this year we're in the $510-ish million type area at this point.
So we've continued to look hard at the CapEx budgets and are kind of still spending a lot of money to push forward on all the important programs that we have.
But we're clamping down a bit on some of the other things.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So a little bit of a pullback from where you started the year but not -- you're still implying a pretty big quarterly number? Yes.
We've tended to kind of underspend over the past couple of years what people have looked a lot to do.
And we're doing -- we're kind of in the same type of position this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Scott on the 25% incremental margins I mean you point out the light versus the heavy.
But what about new versus current -- new products versus in-production products how much of a discrepancy are we going to see in that kind of incremental margin as it folds in over the next several quarters? I don't think that you should expect to see very much in terms of the change.
In other words if you looked at the margin rates of Sovereigns versus new Sovereigns or you look at the margin rates of M2 versus sort of CJ or the Mustang class there's not a big discrepancies in there.
So I think we'll continue to see a fairly similar margin rate depending on the kind of mix of the size of aircraft you're talking about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last one for me.
I mean earlier in the conversation you talked about managing the down cycle at Cessna.
But managing the down cycle of Bell is really a lot different because you can see map know exactly what at least the military production is going to be contractually.
So from a standpoint of getting the cost structure right for '15 when the production of the V-22s 22 aircraft can you put up the same margins? Can you put up the 13% margins in a context of V-22s at 22 that you can put up the V-22s in the context of 40 deliveries a year? Well I mean we'll -- again we don't want to do any long-term guiding here.
But certainly we have a lot more visibility at Bell today and very good visibility obviously with respect to V-22.
And so in terms of cost actions I mean these have already started.
We've already done several pretty significant reductions at Bell.
And clearly there will be more to come as that volume works its way through the factory.
We know exactly what we need to do in terms of the V-22 volumes and we'll be making adjustments accordingly.
Listen the other part of that Myles is not just the reduction in volume but the contractual rates that we're going to be able to earn on those contracts are different.
So at the end of the day you can't make up all that margin out of cost savings.
We have a question from Julian Mitchell with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's Charlie for Julian.
I just didn't know just 2 real quick ones because obviously we'd run over here.
Just to know just for expectations if you could kind of frame just -- probably don't want to get into specific numbers but just maybe frame kind of a range for kind of what you guys are thinking for M2s or what you guys are thinking for the new Sovereigns just to kind of put expectations kind of in context for Q4.
In terms of? Research Division</strong> Just delivery numbers.
Deliveries number of aircraft? We haven't been providing any sort of guidance on particular models so I don't think we probably want to go there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Or even just for mediums versus lights I mean any -- I mean obviously I think mediums -- sorry lights through the first 3 quarters down about 40 and mediums down about a little over that.
But anything different into the end of Q4 no? Well the only thing I have to say is I mean you certainly would expect to see more of the mediums in Q4 because we're at least back shipping Sovereigns again.
We were absent in the second and third quarter.
But that's really only the color I guess I would provide on that is that...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I just didn't know if you thought like if Sovereign would be between 5 and 10 -- or I mean obviously I think it'd be higher than that.
Or if 10 to 20 is a range or -- but I guess you guys want to get away from that.
Yes.
No we haven't been providing that number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No.
Yes I just -- and then just real quick at Bell.
Obviously commercial has been strong.
I just didn't know if you had any color on just customers just end-market customers.
Is it still a lot of oil and gas? Is it a lot -- where are the customers coming from here? Oil and gas has still been strong.
A lot of foreign military customers are still in there a lot of police emergency medical services.
It really has been reasonably across the board.
So I think [indiscernible] in Scott's comments.
We're seeing a lot of good development of demand around the globe outside the United States like Russia and China the Middle East.
Last question is from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just on the Cessna deliveries I know you don't want to get into specific models but the increase in the finished goods inventory that you see at year end is that M2s and Sovereigns because the timing of the certification? Or is it anticipation of the Xs? Can you give any color as to what's increasing in terms of finished goods? Well certainly Xs right because we had originally been manufacturing expecting to get cert by late this year.
Those have all moved into 2014.
Beyond that I guess I wouldn't provide any guidance.
I mean it will depend on obviously how this quarter plays out and what orders and sales conversion looks like.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I can ask you just a question on Bell and the V-22 multiyear you talked about some of the delivery expectations over that multiyear.
We've seen recently companies like Sikorsky talk about a reduction in volume even within a multiyear.
And so is there flexibility from the customer to adjust those even if it's in delivery and still be able to move it even though there is a firm commitment on the total? No it would be a renegotiation if there was a change.
That's a mixed multi-year contract.
All right ladies and gentlemen thank you for joining us today.
And we know we have a couple of follow-up calls in queue that we'll call back.
Thank you very much.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:00 a.m.
today running through January 24 2014 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive Playback service at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 265927.
International participants may dial 1 (320) 365-3844 and again the code is 265927.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen good morning.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Textron 2013 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Doug Wilburne.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
For everybody’s reference our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
During the course of our call we will be discussing future estimates and expectations including our 2014 outlook.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
We would also like to point out that our 2014 guidance will not include the impact of our planned acquisition of Beechcraft.
We will update our 2014 guidance to account for the impact of the acquisition after we have closed the transaction.
Moving now to fourth quarter results starting with slide number three in our earnings presentation.
Revenues in the quarter were $3.5 billion up 4.3% from a year ago.
Income from continuing operations was $0.60 per share compared to $0.50 in last year’s fourth quarter.
This was a few cents higher than we were expecting at the end of December when we indicated that we would likely be below the bottom end of our guidance range as a result of better operating results in our manufacturing businesses.
Moving to cash flow fourth quarter manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was $774 million bringing our full year manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions to $256 million.
Full year pension contributions were $194 million which reflected a $21 million contribution during the fourth quarter.
With that I will turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
Overall we had a good fourth quarter to close out the year with revenue growth at Cessna Bell and Industrial and strong cash generation across all our businesses.
Moving to our Textron Systems segment revenues were down in the quarter as expected primarily due to lower UAS and precision weapon shipments in the quarter compared to a year ago.
Operationally Systems had a good quarter with 9.8% margins.
We also continued to make progress on the Ship-to-Shore Connector and Canadian Tactical Armored Patrol Vehicle program while continuing to make on-time deliveries on our existing Afghanistan National Army Vehicle contract.
In our UAS business we saw improvement in the operating reliability of our Aerosonde fee-for-service aircraft reflecting installation of Lycoming Build Engines into the fleet.
Also within the UAS business we made good progress in the shadow TCDL development program which we believe puts us on track to begin delivering production units in the second half of this year.
Finally we closed on the acquisitions of OPINICUS and Mechtronix in December and we are now in the process of combining with our existing military simulation business at AAI to establish the new Textron Simulation and Training Systems business.
Jim Takats the former CEO of OPINICUS is the President of the new unit and with his team he is busy with integration activities and business planning.
As we look to 2014 for Systems we significant top-line expansion led by growth in the UAS revenues primarily from delivery of TCDL systems and the impact of the Simulation and Training business which should lead to improvement in full year margins.
Switching to Industrial revenues were up 9.5% in the quarter reflecting higher volumes in each of our businesses as well as the acquisitions of Sherman &amp; Reilly and HD Electric at Greenlee.
For the year we posted a 60 basis point improvement in margins on 3.9% revenue growth.
Looking to 2014 we are expecting continued margin expansion resulting from solid top-line growth driven by strong auto markets and our continued investments in new products sales and distribution capabilities.
Moving now to Bell plant productivity and execution across our programs improve and that was reflected in our sequential margin recovery in the quarter.
We delivered 13 V-22s 6 H-1s and 75 commercial helicopters versus 9 V-22s 6 H-1s and 65 commercial helicopters in last year’s fourth quarter.
During the quarter the V-22 program was approved which contributed to an increase in overall Bell backlogs.
On the FMS front last week the Department of Defense notified Congress that it intends to sell six V-22s to Israel with the aircrafts expected to be in field in 2016.
We continue to pursue a number of additional FMS opportunities for both V-22 and H-1 aircrafts and believe we will have incremental FMS deliveries for both of these platforms.
On the commercial front we delivered 213 helicopters for the full year up 13% from last year’s 188 units reflecting our investment in the products and increased focus on the commercial helicopter market.
Looking to 2014 we are expecting a flat top-line at Bell reflecting a decrease in military revenue offset by an increase in the commercial side of business.
Margins are expected to be down slightly reflecting the expected decrease in military margins and continue to back for the manufacturing efficiencies we talked about last quarter.
Wrapping up our operations for U.S Cessna we received FAA certification for our new M2 and Sovereign in the last week of December which allowed us to deliver 12 M2s and eight Sovereigns bringing total jet deliveries in the quarter to 62.
This compares with 53 units in last year’s fourth quarter.
For the year deliveries were down at a 139 jets compared to 181 last year.
Looking towards 2014 while we are not counting on a significant change in overall market conditions we do expect that full year deliveries of the M2 and the new Sovereign Plus introduction of our new 10 will contribute to increase in overall deliveries which should internally do an improvement in profitability.
Longer term we are still expecting overall jet growth to develop as global economies gain momentum and combine with additional new products that are introduced.
With our announced acquisition of Beechcraft we believe we will be in an excellent position to capitalize on the rebound in the business jet and overall general aviation market.
To wrap up 2013 in Textron Systems we continued to innovate on the product front including our expanded Commando family of armored vehicles and development of the next generation of the Shadow M2.
We continue to increase our international customer base with finalization of a contract to supply Saudi Arabia with precision weapons.
We also made progress on a variety of product opportunities in international military markets which we expect to lead to a number of orders in 2014.
And finally we established new business unit in the growing global aircraft simulation training market.
At Industrial last year’s 4% top-line growth reflected our continuing investment and expanded distribution in new products such as the new hybrid-powered Bad Boy Ambush iS at E-Z-GO and the high productivity AR722T diesel turf mower Jacobsen.
And our acquisitions of Sherman &amp; Riley and HD Electric demonstrate our commitment to leverage these businesses for growth and long-term shareholder value.
At Bell we implemented a new Enterprise Resource Planning system and now the rollout was without issues.
We believe the new system will contribute to significant improvements in our manufacturing operations over the next several years.
We also introduced our new short light single and continued to expand our focus on commercial markets around the world.
On the military side we announced an important new tilt-rotor product the V-280 Valor and propose that as Bell Solutions from U.S.
DODs Future Vertical Lift program.
At Cessna in addition to the M2 and Sovereign we certified the Cessna TTX the world’s fastest certified fixed-gear single-engine aircraft as well as the Grand Caravan EX.
Finally in December we achieved first light of our Scorpion ISR tactical strike aircraft less than two years from when we launched our design program.
In summary 2013 was an important year with significant new product introductions strategic acquisitions and investments in the future of our businesses.
To finish with our 2014 guidance we are projecting an overall revenue increase of about 9% with EPS from continuing operations in the range of $2 to $2.20.
Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions is also expected to increase significantly to a range of $600 million to $700 million.
With that I will turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Manufacturing revenue was up $153 million in the quarter generating an increase in manufacturing segment profit of $26 million.
Let’s look at how each of the manufacturing segments contributed.
Cessna revenues were $923 million in the fourth quarter an increase of $22 million on a year-over-year basis reflecting the increase in jet deliveries partially offset by a decrease in revenues at Citation X and lower caravan deliveries.
We posted an operating profit of $33 million up $10 million from the fourth quarter of 2012 primarily as a result of improved performance reflecting an unfavorable arbitration award recorded in last year’s fourth quarter.
At Bell revenues were up $226 million primarily due to higher volumes across the business.
Segment profit increased $1 million as the impact of higher volumes was largely offset by lower military margins and manufacturing inefficiencies related to prior period labor negotiations and the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system.
At Textron Systems revenue decreased to $162 million primarily due to lower volumes.
Segment profit increased $4 million as improved performance more than offset the impact of the lower volumes.
Industrial revenues were up $67 million and segment profit increased $11 million primarily due to higher volumes.
Moving to finance segment profit was $2 million.
Credit quality remained stable with non-accrual accounts at a $105 million flat with the third quarter and 60-day delinquencies were $80 million $8 million lower than at the end of last quarter.
We ended the year with approximately $1.5 billion in receivables with only $185 million remaining in the non-captive portfolio.
Moving to corporate items corporate expenses were $57 million up $43 million from last year reflecting the impact of – that our higher share price had on compensation expense.
Interest expense was $27 million down $11 million from a year ago primarily reflecting to retirement of our convertible debt earlier in the year.
Our tax rate of 23.3% benefited from the impact of lower U.S.
income and a number of one-time foreign items.
Turning now to our 2014 guidance beginning with pension expense and looking at slide 8.
Based on bond rates prevailing at the end of 2013 we’ve increased our 2014 U.S.
plan discount rate to 5%.
In combination with 14% returns on planned assets for 2013 unfunded liability of our defined benefit pension plans dropped to $200 million from $1.3 billion a year ago.
On this basis we are estimating 2014 pension cost of about $130 million.
This will provide about $45 million in pre-tax year-over-year benefits to the P&amp;L taking into account 2013’s higher cost of our inventories and carried over to 2014 and a portion of this year’s lower cost will be inventories and carried over into 2015.
Turning to slide 9 R&amp;D is expected to be approximately $490 million or about 3.7% of sales down from $511 million in 2013.
We are estimating CapEx will be about $425 million down slightly from last year’s capital expenditure of $444 million.
Flipping to slide 10 which continued to our segment guidance at Cessna we are expecting about 19% revenue growth reflecting growth in jets and aftermarket with segment margins in the range of 2.5% to 3.5%.
At Bell we are expecting overall revenues will be approximately flat reflecting lower military revenues being offset by higher commercial revenues with expected margins in the range of 12% to 12.5%.
At Systems we are looking for top-line growth of about 20% led by higher UAS revenues with segment margins in the range of 9.5% to 10%.
At Industrial we are expecting 10% revenues growth with the expansion of 2014 margins to be 8.25% to 8.75% range.
At finance for forecasting segment profit in the range of $5 million to $10 million in 2014 with minimal upside potential from non-captive asset dispositions now that those assets are de minimus.
Moving below the segment line and looking at slide 11 we are projecting about $150 million for corporate expense down from 2013 primarily reflecting lower compensation expense related to change in share price.
Our interest expense estimate at about $117 million is down primarily as a result of last year’s retirement of our convertible notes.
And next year’s tax rate is expected to be higher at about 31.5% primarily reflecting the discontinuance of the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit and a higher U.S.
income mix.
Looking now at slide 12 our 2014 EPS guidance reflects an increase of $0.35 at the midpoint.
Let’s discuss the major elements driving the increase.
Tax headwinds decreased EPS by $0.14 lower expected earnings at Finance represented $0.10 headwind.
Improved interest expense provides a pickup of $0.01 the absence of last year’s restructuring charge at Cessna adds $0.07 and the benefit of lower pension expense is expected to add about $0.11 per share in 2014.
And finally the contribution from our underlying manufacturing business is estimated to be $0.40 per share.
Tom that concludes our prepared remarks.
So we can open the line for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today comes from the line of John Godyn representing Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you guys for taking my question.
First of all Scott I was just hoping that now with the past at some time you could talk a little bit about maybe the internal response from the sales force as well as customer response from the announced Beech acquisition? Sure I think it’s been overwhelmingly positive and we’ve had a ton of interactions with the Beechcraft customers and I think from their perspective this provides – uncertainty with a company that’s gone some pretty difficult times.
So I think that all the feedback we received has been very very positive.
I think the notion at the customer service and support will be stable through the lifecycle of these products on both the Can aero piece which I think people are fairly comfortable with but in large part the hawker piece with a lot of customers that were concerned about where that would go has given them a great deal of comfort and the fact that it’s now in an ownership structure that’s long-term committed to the business in general aviation market has been received very very well.
Great that’s very helpful and I was hoping that in terms of the 2014 outlook you could elaborate a little bit on the assumptions or expectations underlying Cessna.
In particular kind of the pricing environment that you see next year or this year is it getting firmer just trying to understand the $3.3 billion revenue number a little bit better think the uptick just within the context to the E-Z comp in 2013 struck us a little bit low and so I was hoping that you could elaborate a bit on that.
Well I think if you look at the 2014 the comparative first of all I’d say the market is still challenging as I said I don’t think we are expecting any dramatic change in terms of the market dynamic that’s out there.
So pricing for us was roughly flat year-over-year so I’d say it has more or less stabilized in terms of where the pricing environment is most of what we are anticipating in terms of growth is really driven by new products.
So as you look into 2014 obviously we’ve seen very strong demand around the M2 product.
The Sovereign did well really at the end of the quarter obviously the certifications happened very late in the year but will not have a full year of not just the M2 but also the Sovereign of course we are expecting the 10 to certify in the early part of this year.
So we expect the full year sales in terms of the Citation 10.
So really the dynamic is new products matter a lot and as we talked about over the last couple of years our – one of our biggest competitors has been our installed base have rolled to the new used aircrafts and so as we come out with new products that are differentiated from what’s available out there Interviewer he marketplace in terms of the use the customer reception has been strong and that’s really what’s driving most of our revenue increase in 2014 which is the full year of those new products that have been well received in the marketplace.
Okay and if I could just ask a quick one on Systems the margin outlook for 2014 suggests the margin expansion versus 2013.
I was just hoping you could elaborate on what’s driving that.
Thanks a lot.
There is two parts that are driving it.
One is we are feeling better about where we stand on our fee-for-service contracts in UAS.
We certainly had another challenging year in 2013 really driven by this issue of engine reliability.
The indications we are getting from the field now that we have got our Lycoming Build motors out there has certainly been on a positive trend.
So we are pretty confident that we should experience better performance.
It’s still a challenging program and we are booking it as your profit but again we don’t expect to see the kind of impact we’ve seen over the last couple of years in terms of losses associated with that program and then the significant piece is that all of that delivery of production TCDL units was really something we originally expected to start delivering in 2013 as a result of the development program.
That really moved into 2014 and beyond.
So we’ve been building those units.
We’ve been ready to ship those units but we continue to see completing the development contract which is the cost plus low margin contract we expect that to happen here in the first half of this year and so you’ll see a positive mix in terms of now this development program with low development margins you’ll actually see delivery of production units at better margins.
Very helpful thanks.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Scott I wondered if you could maybe just elaborate on the comment you just made about not really expecting much of a change in underlying legacy light cabin business jet demand why not what are customers telling you on the ground today? What are the data points you are looking at that you still need to see change maybe just a little bit more on sort of how things feel and what it can take to finally turn things? This is a tough one obviously.
We’ve been guessing at this for quite a number of years now.
The key metrics that we look at obviously continue to be favorable number of used aircrafts available out in the market continues to go down in terms of both percent and absolute number of aircrafts so we find that encouraging.
The used market has been quite active again and in 2013 in number of transactions.
Customer activity lot of the surveys that people do out there say people are more bullish certainly in the U.S.
Although we continue to be concerned about what’s going on around the economies in Latin America and in Europe which are sort of our second and third largest markets classically for those light mid-sized business jets.
So if I looked at our legacy products which are things that we have had in production through the course of the year we are basically seeing a sort of a flattish market in that area.
Again that’s an area that we see and are pretty confident about the increased revenue is the fact that we now have full years for some of the new products.
But if I look at things like M2s we know what that is.
We did grow our production a little bit about half way through the year because of increased demand for that product.
We feel pretty good about where we are on our sovereigns and obviously the 10 certifies we have original backlog around that product as well.
So I think that the safe assumption at this stage is to assume that the market dynamic overall is relatively flat to what it was in 2013 and then all the upside or improvements comes from introduction of new products.
So should we – when we are looking at total Cessna units should we have 2014 production up something on a percentage basis something similar to what you are telling us revenues will be compared to 2013 and then have – to think about 2015 it’s not really changing substantially from 2014 or can you really not – is it sort of short-term still that things could really change significantly still later in the year and it’s too hard to say? Well I think again the assumptions that you make around 2014 on average aircraft pricing and you are going have a mix obviously of M2s which are from a price point obviously towards the lower end of the product range.
But you have the 10 and the sovereigns behind.
So I think your assumptions are probably not unreasonable in terms of what you think about in terms of unit volumes in 2014.
We are certainly not – nowhere near close to 2015 yet but I wouldn’t try to make any assumptions around the market overall.
I guess the only commentary I would make with respect to 2015 is that we certainly expect to have the latitude in the market for full year of sales in 2015.
So again along the same lines that way we are thinking about today all have been equal these new products are things that really drive growth and we would certainly expect to see growth in 2015 driven by the introduction of the latitude.
Okay I appreciate the color.
I’ll jump back in the queue.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from the line of Peter Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning guys.
Just a few more questions.
Let me start with the maybe the XLS.
Scott when do the final assembly in China start for the XLS? And you maybe not expecting that to be a meaningful up tick XLS deliveries next year or I guess this year? We do expect in 2014 that we would make the first deliveries to the joint venture for the XLS just as we did for their caravan in 2013 but yes they are relatively low unit numbers as we are just starting to ramping up that process and working the first couple aircrafts through it.
So we are still in the process of business licenses and starting to generate sales activity in China through that joint venture.
Okay got it.
And then can you maybe give us more detail on what Cessna aftermarket growth finished up at in 2014 and what’s your assumption is in 2014 and similar question on pre-owned volumes? So the aftermarket was up again at Cessna in the aftermarket.
It wasn’t up quite as much as it was in the third quarter.
But it was a pretty strong quarter in terms of aftermarket growth.
The utilizations have held pretty steady.
So that business continues to do well in terms of used aircraft.
The dynamic that we saw was still very active market and we certainly saw more aircrafts – a net reduction in our inventory of aircrafts as we sold more than we took in trades.
It seems like 2014 revenue from pre-owned are you expecting that to be down or maybe just directionally give us a sense? That’s probably relatively flat.
It was up this year – year-over-year but I would say probably relatively flat next year.
Got it.
Okay thanks guys.
Sure.
Our next question is from Carter Copeland representing Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Just a couple quick ones.
On the Bell margin outlook for 2014 I know the sequential improvement in the fourth quarter but I was wondering why that was – what was behind the down year-over-year number there? Is that was just the V-22 in the fourth quarter? Or if that was anymore ERP bleed over from 2013? Any color there would be helpful.
Well certainly some of it was a bleed over from the earlier quarter in 2013.
So as those inefficiencies that we had which we talked about in the largely impacting the second and third quarter a fair amount of that stuff cost that was inventory which then will bleed out.
So it’s certainly sold as we recognize revenues on aircrafts in the fourth quarter and we’ll see that as we continue our way through 2014 as well.
In terms of real-time operations we have seen improvements in terms of some of that productivity but we still have a long way to go and continue to drive better margins.
Obviously the other dynamic that we have which had some impact in the quarter and will have continuing impact on a go-forward basis is that we are now transitioning into lots of aircrafts that have been negotiated at lower rates than we were achieving in our earlier multi-year contract as a result of accumulated productivity over a period of a number of years.
Correct.
And I wondered if you could just clarify the UAS commentary earlier.
You weren’t expecting to book are you not booking profits at all or you are just not booking losses is that the right clarification? Well on the fee-for-service we book that at zero profit.
And your expectation for 2014 is that that will stay that way through the course of the year? That’s correct.
Our expectation is that we will say that way but we will not recognize any further losses on the program.
Okay great.
Thanks I’ll get back in the queue.
Our next question will be from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Frank I was wondering if you could just help us a little bit with the cadence of revenues throughout the year both at Cessna and its systems just wondering if the seasonality at Cessna is perhaps going to be a little bit front-end in the past in light of the new deliveries and then the cadence that systems will be helpful given the revenues outlook quite a bit.
Just getting a sense of when we are going to see an acceleration of revenues there? Yes I think you’ll see the same type of seasonality that you have seen at Cessna.
It will be impart impacted a little bit by the timing of the certification of the tens which is either a late first quarter or second quarter event.
But you will see kind of the same type of back-end strength relative to front-end at Cessna.
And at systems because we expect the TCDL deliveries to be second-half oriented you’ll see seasonality there as well where the second half of the year will be substantially stronger than the first half of the year.
Okay great.
And then just two quick follow-ups.
Actually how much is the R&amp;D tax credit where – is it that would have sold back in and then the second question is just the R&amp;D trajectory for the enterprise overall beyond 2014 just general trends on up or down relative to 2014 would be helpful.
Jason on the R&amp;D credit I’ll get back to you on offline.
We don’t have that number right in front of us.
Yes on the overall R&amp;D it will be program specific at the end of the day in terms of what we are looking at.
But I think in and around these types of R&amp;D levels with some probably modest growth is what you should expect.
Okay great.
That’s helpful.
Thank you guys.
And we’ll go to the line of Robert Stallard Royal Bank of Canada.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Scott can you help on Cessna given your comments on 2014 growth.
I was wondering how much of this is actually in the back half already? Do you have any remaining slots for customers at the moment or are these pretty much sold out on the – shifted to – let’s say legacy models that is still for sale? No we have some slots.
The M2 as I said earlier we actually added some production capacity.
So we created some slots so we do have aircrafts that are available for sale this year.
Sovereign there are aircrafts that are available.
We have some of the backlog and some that will be still be sales that need to convert orders.
So our orders to sales in 2014 the tens are pretty well sold to this point.
There is probably a couple that could be available in the latter part of the year.
So the new product side is – has pretty reasonable backlog in terms of sales.
Okay and then secondly on Bell you mentioned you turned up your contract there.
There are some FMS sales floating around.
Has this had any impact though on your clarity for 2015 or is it likely be a further added like 2015 and 2017.
2015 is fairly well set just in terms of if you look at lead times frankly any aircraft deliveries and the V-22 slighted for 2015 will already have had been in production.
So I think the 2015 numbers that we’ve provided you guys will hold where they are that’s probably also true at this stage of the game in 2016.
So when you see something like the Israeli deal where they want to take deliveries in 2016 those are units that are actually coming out of the marine core and V-22 stream and so as the decisions get made in terms of the government about how they want to treat those aircrafts they are going to add additional that would probably at this point be something that would be a 2017 delivery in terms of any incremental volume opportunities.
Thanks so much.
We have a question from Cai Von Rumohr representing Cowen.
Please go ahead.
So get us a little color on Cessna’s profit looked a little bit light was there anything in terms of R&amp;D being higher higher used aircraft losses in the fourth quarter because the incremental margin looks like at 16% relative to the third quarter? Yes on a big piece that is with the certifications both the M2 and the Sovereign we had a lot of cost around the certification and frankly and awful lot of variants in our manufacturing side because of a lot of updates and configurations.
We are building these aircrafts and went through certification that was nothing huge but there was a fair bit of a rework that went on to get those into the certification standard.
So those are cost that we bore in in the fourth quarter and of course we also had the citation 10 certification program going in those suite as well.
So it was primarily driven around cost associated to those certifications as well as a fair bit of higher cost associated with the manufacturing efficiencies of having to upgrade and modify those aircrafts as we went through the process.
Got it.
And then you’ve indicated that R&amp;D would be 490 in this year down from 511.
Were the certification cost included in the R&amp;D in 2013 and what kind of trend should we expect at both Cessna and R&amp;D in 2014? If you look at R&amp;D Cai obviously we don’t break the sales business-by-business but it’s safe to say that the majority of the reduction on a year-over-year basis is coming out of Cessna and that’s because we did have an awful lot of R&amp;D cost this year associated with the pack that we are doing the M2 and the Sovereign and the 10 certification programs simultaneously.
Obviously as we go into 2014 we still have to complete the certification on the 10 although the majority of that I would say is behind at this stage of the game but we still have the spending associated with the latitude program and complete the latitude design development and getting into the flight test and that certification program on that front.
So most of that R&amp;D reduction at a corporate level really is coming out of Cessna and it’s just a function of we rarely have had a time on that.
I am not sure we’ve ever had a time but we’ve had that many parallel certification programs that we’ve been undertaking.
And again it wasn’t just on the jet business but also on the prop business.
So help me understand you are talking about a 400 basis point improvement year-over-year at Cessna and it looks like we get a 100 out of the severance charge we get close to a 100 out of pensions we got something out of R&amp;D.
So it doesn’t looks like you are giving yourselves any credit for the higher volume.
Am I missing something there? Well I think if you looked at the sort of the mid-point of the guidance as you are moving to next year the leverage in terms of the incremental margin to that revenue is going to be in the low to mid-20s.
Okay and then you had mentioned that there is a $45 million positive P&amp;L swing in 2014 in pension expense versus it looks like a $96 million decline in pension cost.
Could you give us for 2013 and what you are looking forward for 2014 the actual pension expense that will flow through – that will be in the P&amp;L? I am not sure we have that exact number.
On an year-over-year basis it’s about $45 million and of course the charge or the cost as we outlined on our schedule just $130 million.
So we are ongoing with this you are only picking up half of the decline in the cost this year and Frank alluded to the fact that the inventories flow through should we expect the other $50 million or so to flow through in 2015 if all the assumptions remain the same? Yes so Cai the math behind it is we tend to inventory about a third of the pension cost differential that then gets realized in the subsequent year and so we have the benefit of the step down in 2013 to 2014 and we’ll get two-thirds of that benefit flowing through in 2014 but we will continue to have one-third of the headwind that we had from 2012 to 2013 that was inventory and therefore will be realized in 2014 P&amp;L.
So that’s the net $45 million.
If you then roll into 2015 assuming that we don’t have any further change in downward trend in discount rate or negative rates or something we will realize the remaining one-third of this year’s benefit and then we will not have – we’ll have whatever the subsequent impact is to that following year.
So we are kind of making up for the headwind two years ago in part this year and then in 2015 it should trend even better assuming things stay on track the way they happen.
Thank you very much.
And next we will go to the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi yes just following-up on Cai’s question Scott why shouldn’t the incremental margins be closer to 30% at Cessna kind of versus the low to mid 20 this year low 20 that you are suggesting on the call.
Well George because they are not.
I mean as we go through the numbers and we look at where we are in the market you take into consideration the mix of the new products legacy products where we are in terms of pricing in the marketplace.
That’s where we end with the incremental that are kind of at the midpoint down there in the – I think it’s around 23% if you take the midpoint of the guidance.
So if we see obviously if we see some better volume if we see the change in the market.
I think there is upside to that.
But we have to see some strengthening in that light to mid-sized market but as we came through 2013 and just the dynamic that we saw which was much softer than we would have expected in 2013.
The impacts in terms of – which is sure volume and pricing was quite challenging and so we factor that into our expectations for 2014.
Okay and then a follow-up on your comment there.
If you looked at the orders I mean we saw a big improvement in the third quarter another big improvement this quarter were the orders really were up like 30% plus in the third quarter and certainly the best since 2008.
So why wouldn’t that suggest that the markets actually really beginning a big pick up here?  Well I mean we’d like to think that and carry over to 2014 but again George if I go back to the latter part of 2012 we certainly thought there was some momentum that we are going to see coming into 2013 and we didn’t see that.
As a result we ended up with production schedules and such that we are a lot more difficult than we would have expected and so I think we need to continue as we go into 2014 despite having seen what was certainly a good quarter in terms of order activity that we are going to continue to view that the strength will be around the new products and that it will still be a challenging overall market and therefore the legacy products will be under the same sort of pressure that they were in 2013.
Okay and then just one quick one on Systems the revenue guidance you gave is a lot higher than what I would have expected.
I know in your commentary you went through some of the things I mean is there one or two programs that are substantially increasing at that point in time and what’s the mix between international and domestic that you would expect in the 2014 guidance? Well the biggest driver in the Systems revenue growth in 2014 George is around this TCDL program.
So we should complete – it will be relatively back-end loaded.
We will probably complete the development programs which includes an army test which will happen in the second quarter.
So you won’t get sign-off on the development side until probably late in the first half of the year.
So that means all that production delivery will be in Q3 and Q4.
Most of those assets by the way are manufacturers.
So there is – but there is not an operational risk in terms our ability to deliver on that.
It’s just a matter of getting through the development program.
So that will be all be third and fourth quarter but it is a significant increase in revenue over 2013 and then there is about probably $90 million to $100 million and they are incremental revenues associated with the acquisitions of Mechtronix and OPINICUS in the simulation and training business.
And then Scott what was the mix between international and domestic in 2014? In the systems? Yes.
I don’t think we would expect a big changer because we’ve got the growth in the TCDL unit there but we are still on track to get that near 50% in 2015 George.
TCDL George obviously is all – that’s all U.S.
army.
So that’s going to see our number a little bit and that that’s sort of demand which would have been split over several years will all be domestic.
But if you look beyond that in terms of our orders and our new business activity it is still biased towards the international marketplace which as Doug said in this year – in 2015 you are looking at more like a 50-50.
Okay thank you very much.
We will go to the line of Joe Nadol with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Scott just on the mid-sized aircrafts it seems like you had a decent quarter in particular.
XLS really picked up and then some of that timing relative to Q3.
Also it seems like the sovereign adds some little more traction is that a fair statement that you try not to get ahead of yourself but things are looking a little better there?  Well it was certainly a good quarter in that respect Joe and obviously the introduction in the sovereign helped aircraft available for sale in the fourth quarter and now we’ll have that available for sale throughout 2014 and we do expect good performance on that platform.
The XLS did very well in Q4 that was obviously some timing associated around that.
But again as we look at our forecast for 2014 we are assuming that legacy aircrafts and the XLS certainly fits that category and so it’s a great airplane and it continues to do well in the marketplace.
But we are expecting the dynamic for the total year of 2014 to be very similar to what we experienced in 2013 which was pretty soft until we got into that fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then just one other on the cash flow Frank just looking into 2014 what are the key working capital assumptions to the $600 to $700 in particularly what are you assuming add-ins within the category at Bell and Cessna? Yes the working capital is about flat.
So there is no real change in working capital.
We would expect it – we will continue to see some inventory improvement at Bell and Cessna here earlier in the year.
And so we are always going to be seasonal from a cash flow standpoint but better seasonality certainly than we saw last year but kind of given our expectations that those businesses will continue to show out year growth we’d expect then some kind of reversal of that that you will see later part of the year as we build into 2015 kind of particularly as we get ready for instance for the latitude launch and then other new product launches.
So kind of overall flat with some dynamic around seasonality during the year.
And what was the – can you quantify versus maybe your expectations a year ago.
The inventory build in those two businesses during 2014.
how much that caused you just in terms of Cessna deliveries not meeting your original expectations and then the issues you had at Bell.
Joe I think from a straight working capital management standpoint between the sort of the overbuild at Cessna part of which obviously liquidated in the fourth quarter but not fully to where we would like to have been.
We had a couple of hundred million dollars of working capital different than where we would like to have been and I think what Frank is saying is as we go through 2014 we certainly expect that we will address that issue and that we will fix that working capital problem but it is going to be pressured as we get into the latter part of next year particularly around Latitude.
We done our first engine on that aircraft.
It should be flying here very soon and we’ll be into the flight test program and driving towards certifications early in 2015 obviously to get a full year sales in 2015 means we are going to go ahead and turn that production line on.
So we’ll be building out those aircrafts but we won't be able to sell those aircrafts deliver those aircrafts until that certification happens.
And so that will happen probably in the very early part of 2015 but we’ll be carrying a full production line with revenues.
So I think we have a plan on how we are going to address.
So what I would as the overall working capital mix in 2013 but we are going to be pressured around some of the inventory particularly around the latitude at Cessna in 2014.
Okay thank you.
Next we go to the line of Julian Mitchell representing Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
I think it’s clear you are not going to change your incremental margin guidance on Cessna based on the last 15 questions.
But I guess if you look at the – I just want to focus on the impact of the ramp up of the new jet.
So how does that affects the incremental of Cessna sort of year as a whole in 2014 and in particular in the first half.
So I guess you have some better pricing but then at the same time you have got costs associated with the ramp up maybe some fixed cost on absorption early on.
Actually and that’s what – I think Cai and George’s questions are good.
I mean it’s easy to – we can go through some of the beneficial things that should be flowing through the P&amp;L and try to justify a higher number and I guess the bottom line is while we expect and the new products like the M2 and the Sovereign are good in delivering good gross margin in terms of product lines there are no issues associated with those recurring cost on the programs but as we have introduced and you ramp these new products we have had inefficiency this year around the models we made go into certification.
We would expect some of that will bleed off obviously as we go through the beginning of the new year but the real issue here is that despite those better volumes and fairly good confidence with respect to new product programs we think that the pricing environment the challenges in the legacy product given the dynamics in the marketplace it’s still going to be pretty tough and so as we factor that in.
That’s where we end up with the guidance number that we are giving you guys and we would over to see that be the better number and if we see some turn in the market I think we can make that happen but we were kind of burned by the going from 2012 into 2013 and so I think we are going to be very conservative about our perspective of what the overall market is doing as we go from 2013 to 2014.
Sure and then within Cessna off the market it sounds like you think this will be a pretty flattish demand here.
I guess if you kind of activity take-offs and landings and so when you got some better news I guess particularly in markets like Europe versus the nine or twelve months ago the U.S.
is pretty stable.
I just wonder why it is you think the market is be kind of flattish.
I think the commercial be up a bit at Cessna but – I mean the fleet does continue to grow a bit ADUs in the US have been quite stable kind of 0.68 0.67 as we’ve grown through the – as to what happens in the European markets or the Latin American market I think there is – it’s still bit of a wild card.
But we are assuming low to mid-single-digit growth in the service business on a year-over-year basis.
Got it.
Thanks and lastly just on Systems.
You got a pretty healthy profit increase in for 2014.
Is that’s something we should see straight off from the beginning of the year or you think there will be some lumpiness around that? I think it will be more back-end loaded Julian again primarily driven by the fact that the dynamic on the UAS business is transitioning from this development program which is a very low margin program to the delivery of the production programs which are reasonable and normal production sort of margins.
But all those deliveries will be in the third and the fourth quarter of the year.
Great thanks very much.
And our next question is from the line of Jeff Sprague representing Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Just a couple quick follow-ups.
Scott has there been any change in just the tenor of order activity around actually getting the sorts is that something really – to a significant degree for the sales effort or not really.
You don’t know – Jeff I don’t think the dynamic and people knew they were coming and very close communication with customers for quite some time in terms of the status of those things that the fact that it happened so late in the year probably cut a few aircrafts out that we would do.
Otherwise I have expected to get delivered but that was just more around – it became such a compressed schedule right there at the end to just try to physically make the transition happen obviously we got a quite a few aircrafts sold in a very short period of time.
I mean essentially of course the book showing the 28.
So that one with window we are able to title and transfer 20 aircrafts between M2s and sovereigns.
So but I think it had happened earlier in the quarter clearly there was an opportunity that we would have sold a few more aircrafts.
I would say in terms of on a go forward basis Jeff it’s a biggest issue that will drive orders and backlog particularly as we look into 2015 is getting the latitude flying.
So that aircraft once it starts being able to demo the aircraft that will start to generate some order momentum and we saw that on the Sovereigns M2.
So once you have aircrafts that are out flying and able to do some demonstration and get up to shows and get it around the customers you do need to have that to start generating the order momentum.
Great but I’m just wondering on Bell anything to be aware of their margin trajectories flows out over the year and second the carryover inventory cost on the labor disruptions plus as we roll into the multi-year is there any – the new multi-year is there any long lead time stuff that weighs on margins in 2014 as we start the kind of movement to 2015? I think we are probably a little more pressured in the early part of the year.
In part we are recognizing now some of these lower margin military programs particularly in the H1s some V-22 pressure as you move through the course of the year.
But because more of o our volume is going to be dependent on the commercial business.
Now as you know that commercial does tend to – from a seasonality standpoint tend to be loaded more towards the latter half of the year and particularly a lot of the larger helicopter programs which tend to be the larger generator of profits in terms of the overall mix will be more skewed towards the back of the year.
So it’s going to be not a wild swing but I would say will be more pressured in the earlier part of the year on a Bell margin that we would be in the third fourth quarter.
Okay but for the multi-year that extended work expecting a step-down in 2015 we really feel that calendar 2015 and V-22 margins there is no kind of no early lead time stuff that starts to impact 2014.
Now because we do this when we recognize revenue.
Now we do have some aircraft that will be delivered in the fourth calendar year of 2014 which is under that FY 2015 government calendar.
So there will be some multi-year to deliveries and that will be in the fourth quarter of this year.
Okay and then just finally on V-22 at this point it’s still unclear but you would expect that the U.S.
government makes the marine whole and the six unit that are going to the Israel that ultimately be made hold somewhere later in the program? Well that’s certainly the marine course’s expectation I would just caveat that was subject to all the budget stuff that’s going on.
I think that remains to be definitized.
Okay thanks for color Scott.
We have a question from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open sir.
Thanks I did have just a couple follow-ups one on Bell first.
Can you give us a sense of the total revenue you have there with respect to the refurb and aftermarket services that the army does that stand down their fleet? Yes if you look at the program in total it’s typically a little under $100 million a year of revenue between refurbishments new cabin builds spare parts and service.
And probably a little better than or better than the Bell average I would imagine?&gt; No it’s probably about normal if you look those total mix between new builds and spare parts.
Okay and the other follow-up was you talked about the second half systems deliveries and just wanted to confirm is that expectation in the backlog today or it’s in the plan but we are waiting for it to land in the backlog? I’m just curious in terms of the visibility? I am sorry which program? On the second half systems….
Oh yes I am sorry.
No we had those programs those contracts have been in-house for quite sometime and as I said the units have actually been manufactured.
So it’s just we haven’t done condition because we can’t transfer title until after we’ve completed the development piece which is a separate contract.
But we actually have two separate production contracts that we already have in-house for the production units of TCDL.
Okay perfect.
Thanks.
Operator before we go to our final or follow-up call I just wanted to clarify on the question from Jason relative to the R&amp;D tax credit that in 2013 we had about $11 million of a tax credit related to 2012 plus another $15 million remain related to 2013.
Obviously that is now taken on in terms of our 2014 tax rate.
So with that we will take our final call operator.
All right our final question today will come from the line of Peter Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
Yes.
Scott just on the Bell commercial helicopter outlook I know you said it’s up for 2014 that’s your expectation but we had kind of a blow out this year particularly on the 407 and 429 was very strong.
I am just wondering what is giving you the confidence that those that continue to see growth in 2014 on the Bell commercial side if it’s primarily oil and gas or if you see other end-markets improving as well.
You know it’s really been the growth and our order book has really been across the board.
So oil and gas has been strong.
Emergency medical service has been quite good and as I said we’ve seen significant growth in the 40.
Now the 407GX product has done extremely well in the marketplace and have been very competitive and I expect we’ll continue to see that the 429.
Volumes have been up and we expect to see those volumes up again.
The receptivity of the product particularly with the extra 500 pounds which we’ve seen approved in many markets around the world we are still working on that with the FAA for the US market.
But most markets outside of US and Europe have given the additional 500 pound gross weight increase and that product is doing extremely well in a very broad range of markets.
So the strength in terms of what’s going on in the helicopter market has been good and our share as a result of the new product has been growing.
Very good.
Thanks very much.
Okay that concludes our call for today.
Thanks for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay starting at 10:00 a.m.
this morning and running through April 15 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive Playback service at any time by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code if 265928.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844 Those numbers again 1800-475-6701 International participants dial 320-365-3844 please enter the access code of 265928.
That does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of John Godyn from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Scott I was hoping now that we've had some time to digest Beech that you could talk a little bit more about revenue synergy opportunities.
You had some very good commentary on the cost synergy side it sounds like on a run rate basis the outlook there is that it could exceed some of the prior comments.
I'm just curious what the outlook looks like or how it might have evolved on revenue synergies now that you've had some more time? With respect to revenue synergies it's not something that I want to really put hard number around.
We try to base all of our synergy and math around the things we know we can control which is really on the cost side of the equation.
I'd also say from a timing perspective here.
We've been working pretty hard over the last few months on the cost side of things -- the team has been working together so that we were able to kind of come out of the gate right away executing on the cost synergies.
Obviously we couldn’t get sales teams together prior to the official closing so those teams are now working.
We've got kickoff events and the folks that are in the particular regions that have been selling King Air’s or meeting with the teams that have been selling Citation jets.
So we are certainly starting to operate to make sure that we can take advantage of what revenue opportunities or maybe but it's not something that I would put a number.
Obviously we feel good about the fact that we now have a huge install base of Hawker jets and these are customers that are very very important to us.
We’re going to reach out to them to work with them on the service front which also will hopefully over time increase our conversion rate or I guess retain those Hawker customers and as they move to a new jet we obviously want to see them move into the Citation jet family and we will do everything to make sure they have a very service experience to help promote that on a go forward basis.
But it's not something that we're going to come out with any form of real guidance around a specific number on the revenue synergy side.
Outside of a specific number I mean is it fair to say that directionally now that you’ve had more time looking at Beech and the sales forces are communicating that you feel directionally better about revenue synergy potential as we think about it long term? I think John we always felt that this was an important part of the acquisition and something that would be a great add in terms of adding those additional sales resources and building those relationships and we have only being in to this now for a few weeks.
The teams have been getting together I would say there is a great deal of energy around it you know each of the sessions -- had around the world where we get these teams together people are very enthusiastic very bullish on working together to get out there and just increase our coverage and build more customer relationship.
So it was without a doubt an important part of the transaction and I would say so far as the teams we have gotten together we feel very good about it.
And then I was just hoping that you could elaborate on the general biz jet commentary and specifically what you're seeing with some of the legacy aircraft types.
A lot of the data that the analyst community tracks has generally being a looking a bit better.
Some people have gotten a bit excited.
I'm just curious what your perspective is as you read the tea leaves? Thanks.
So key metrics continue to move in the right direction in terms of used available for sale.
You certainly hear some firming around the pricing in the use market which is encouraging.
For sure the number of aircraft and we watch this every quarter in terms of Citation fleet and what's available for sale drop-down another 40 aircraft or so as the install base continues to grow.
So I would say in terms of trends of some of those key metrics they are still going in the right direction.
We feel good about the fact that pricing has firmed in the use market.
We feel good about the fact that pricing is incrementally better in the new market as well.
So if I had to kind of give overall color on a year-over-year basis as we sat here a year ago we were kind of saying we are little concerned about what we are seeing in the market and we were taking production back and sort of trying to firm pricing and we sit here a year later and while the overall numbers are not a lot higher in terms of unit deliveries we certainly feel better about what's going on in the market and feel a lot more confident about where we're heading here as we into the second third quarter than we did a year ago.
Scott I wanted to ask about pricing.
You mentioned -- in the release you have got some pricing on the new models new model Citations.
Just wondering if you've got any pricing on the balance of the Citation portfolio because I know you guys have tried to be a little bit more disciplined on pricing.
Yes we did Pete and in fact when you see the pricing numbers here they will come out our pricing was up on a year-over-year basis and that really is a reflection of the legacy models.
The M2s and the Sovereigns which were give bit of a volume here in the first quarter aren't going to be in that price number because they are new models.
So the price was certainly up on the existing CJ and XLS families and that number is out there.
The M2s and the Sovereigns obviously -- they are new -- will not show up in our pricing number but certainly pricing has been better than we've seen in the past.
That’s great and then I’m interested in kind of your new expectations for a peak margins at aviation.
I mean it's tough to kind of figure out what kind of the go ahead margin rate at Beechcraft would be given it's kind of up and down history and Hawker has wound down but you’ve got $80 million in cost savings you’re looking at.
So can you give us some color around you know what peak margin can possibly be for the big aviation segment? Pete I have to be honest I haven't tried to do that math yet.
We have been sort of focused here on making sure we can communicate to you guys exceptions in terms of what it means here at’14 and particularly how to model going into ’15 in terms of you know peak margins as you know we have always talked about trying to get through a couple 100s basis points better than in the past.
That’s obviously a little bit muddied up here because we’re going to have a mix of stuff that we don’t actually really know what the margins were back in those peak days because there was so much noise in all of the financials as Beech went through the Hawker issue.
It is a very complicated model Pete so I can’t even really go back and tell you very well an actual real percent to know what to base that peak off of.
I know that’s kind of a muddy answer but the math is -- historical numbers always had all kinds of special charges and impacts of things.
It's just it's not an easy comparable.
I think the way to think about it is in Scott’s earlier comments about the 200 basis points adjustment for kind of a normalized full year run-way of the segment and then you are making your own assumptions on what you think volumes are going to do and what the pricing environment is and I think you can come up with a view of where your margins are going to go.
Okay.
Last question should we'd be worried that 412 was down year-over-year and 429 as well? I think Pete that’s just timing.
We had an awful lot of 412s that went out in the fourth quarter just based on customer demand and where they were so we were very light in the first quarter particularly with respect to 412s which is an important part of the mix commercial business but I don't think that portends anything for the year.
It was just a light number deliveries based on customer demand and delivery dates for the first quarter.
You still think 4.5 billion for Bell for the full year in revenue? That’s correct.
Yes sir.
Just a follow-up I think you reiterated your Bell revenue guidance there.
I was wondering if you could comment on Textron Systems whether you’re still comfortable with your full-year revenue guidance for that division? We’re trying to stay away from quarterly guidance here but we did try to tell people the real drivers of the revenue growth on a year-over-year basis is driven in large part by the TCDL program which is really going to be a third and fourth quarter program just because that’s when we’re going to be completed the final testing and it should be signed off in terms of starting customer delivery.
So we expected the first and frankly expect the second quarter to be pretty light in terms of the revenue line because you won't see those deliveries until the third and fourth quarter.
And then secondly on the aviation division I was wondering if you can give us an idea what the sort of lead time is on a new jet at that moment? Whether that started to move out a little bit? It depends on which model.
So it has -- got a little bit on some of the models and if you’re interested Robert we will push up as far forward in the list as we could.
No I was focused more on the ones where you have been operating a bit on a spot basis and whether that’s stretched down a little bit? It's a still spot basis on some of the lighter jets Robert but as you get into some of the new models like the Sovereigns you’re starting to build -- again not a huge backlog but these aircraft for instance are -- I don’t think we can get to one of those Sovereigns in the second quarter.
So we’re kind of at a point where that production line is pretty well matching what the demand is sort of quarter ahead.
I just wondered in terms of the Beechcraft business the lumpiness of sort of the margin profile there during the year.
I don't know if there's anything particularly important in terms of seasonality that you wanted to call out but obviously the margin number to the extent that it counts for you had in Q1 but very very high versus the kind of 7% underlying margin guide for the year.
Well I think Julian if you look at the numbers it looks like a very high number because it really just reflects those last two weeks of a quarter and you had a lot of King Air deliveries which is fairly standard I think in this business.
You tend to have a fair number of deliveries right near at the end of the quarter.
So the margin rate in that two week period looks particularly high but that’s because you had eight deliveries in a two week period of time over a relative short cost base.
So I think that’s just a function of the fact that you’re just looking at a snapshot of the last two weeks of the quarter.
In terms of sort of a normal annualized looking at the business from what we have seen if its historical numbers it doesn’t look terribly different than the jet business.
Deliveries tend to be stronger in the fourth quarter than they are in the second quarter let’s say but again it doesn’t look to us to be have historically being very different than what we see in the jet business.
Thanks and then on the Bell I guess you are still sticking with that 12% 12.5% margin guide for the year as a whole.
I just wondered if there's anything in Q1 any spillover in terms of the ERP type stuff that hurt the margins were it really was primarily around the commercial mix and that should come back? Well I mean there is both things in there Julian so for sure as we talked about last year as we went through sort of the challenges on the new ERP system and the labor disruptions.
We were running at a higher cost basis than we normally would and a fair bit of that did get inventoried just because it goes and then leaves off over a period of time.
So when we gave you the guidance around the margins we did expect that as that inventory went through and burned off over the course of the year that we expect that we would see about a 100 basis point drag on our margin rates through the course of the year and in fact if we look at those things that were -- those additional costs as they flow through in the first quarter it was about 100 basis point drag.
And so I think you will see roughly a percent of margin degradation in this year’s performance that was a result of those higher cost that we incurred last year but again that was factored into the guidance that we gave you in that 12% 12.5% number.
Thanks and lastly very quickly R&amp;D to sales.
You had indicated alongside the Q4 earnings that should be a tailwind to margins this year year-over-year is that still the case? I think it's a very slight tailwind and I think it remains that way as we bring Beech and the R&amp;D as a percent of sales is kind of about what it is for the overall Textron Company.
So no real change in terms of the overall R&amp;D as a percent of sales and it's a very slight tailwind.
It's a little bit wider in Cessna because of the lower numbers of aircraft and certification.
It's a bit higher at Bell as we have 525 and 505 and V-280 [ph] all going full tilt.
Scott I wanted to ask a question around the sales force and the aviation segment you've gone through pretty big transformation in there over the last year or 18 months.
Was wondering if you could provide an update to us on the benefits what you've got this far out of that transformation as you move more to a direct sales force? And whether these guys have been to populate some sort of pipeline in this tracking system and what that pipeline looks like on a year-over-year basis.
So I think there is no question we have been continue to grow our sales force both domestically and internationally as we have talked about before adding a lot more of our resources as opposed to be dependent on third parties to do that so we continue to make progress I think in doing that clearly the acquisition of Beech helps we have added a lot more sales resource through that deal and we have retained that sales force by the way.
So I mean there is still a team out there as it was with the Beech very focused on the turboprop marketplace and so as I said earlier we’re having a lot of sort of get to know each other sessions around the world so that the teams have been out there selling jets and the team is selling turboprops and know each other and can try to find opportunities to work together going forward.
But we have largely retained all those folks.
So it's increased the net size of our sales force which I think is good.
I think we have a very good system actually that we use for keeping track of customer contacts and customer opportunities and sort of where people are in the cycle and I would say that’s the system we sort of use and look at it.
It's the system we looked at a year ago to say hey guys we’re not feeling that great about where things are in terms of demand and that’s also the same system we’re looking at today and saying there is a more robust set of customer opportunities out there which makes us feel better about where we’re heading in the second third quarter.
So the system is quite good.
The sales teams around the world keep it statused and Scott and that team have a sort of once a week review with all the sales folks around the world on that data basis and kind of get an update on where it is and how things are progressing.
Scott do you feel like you've been able to close more deals as a result of this direct sales force than you would have had you've been using an indirect sales force? As you look back the year 18 months on without a doubt the right move you’ve made? Absolutely.
Our indirect our sales representatives or authorized representatives around the world is like anything Jason.
I think we have had some that have been outstanding and they do a terrific job and we still have a bunch of those and we keep the guys who are doing a great job for us.
The thing that was that led us to start to do more of our direct sales around the world is that I think we had too many that were great for us when things were good but when times weren’t good they had other things to go do and obviously when we put a direct person in good times and bad doesn’t really matter.
The person is out there selling every day.
They are not going to wait around for the overall market to become positive to go sell.
They try to sell all the time and I think that we’re seeing the benefits of that.
A couple of questions.
First Scott can you update us on where the Citation 10 stands are we going to see deliveries this quarter? I'm not sure I’ve seen whether it's been certified yet? I think our past week was the last week of flight testing and so at this point it's now just into the paper work process and I guess the bottom line George is yes I would expect that the certification will happen this quarter and that you will see initial deliveries of 10s in Q2.
Okay and then Frank just to update if I look back at Beech you projected EBITDA of 215 in the December call.
Now it looks like it is gone up a little bit.
We are talking 235 maybe is that due to the 80 million of synergies you are talking now versus 65 before or if I'm wrong if you can clarify what that -- the comparison? Yes George I’m not sure if I’m following your EBITDA comparative but I would say 2013 came in from a historical basis pretty much on top of what we had expected and the numbers that we’re talking about now are pretty much on top of what we had indicated at the time that we announced the acquisition probably achieving the run-rate synergy saving faster than what we indicated at that point in time.
But generally consistent with where we were at the time we made the announcement.
Okay.
And then one last one you had mentioned maybe a 100 basis point impact from the continued labor from the follow-up of the labor issues you had at Bell.
Is that more heavily loaded to the first quarter here where the margins were down a lot more or is that just a 100 basis points in the combination of the weaker mix? That falls across the year.
Really as we sell product and it just rolls through cost of sales at a pretty consistent 100 basis points across each quarter.
Yes so the 100 basis points is pretty consistent at least the way we forecasted or see it right now George the big comparative from ’13 to ’14 beyond that is largely driven by mix of principally commercial and largely 412 helicopters in Q1 of ’13 versus Q1 of ’14.
My first question was about I know you discussed pricing it seems like there was a bit of a pricing benefit for the full-year just given there is a loss legacy aircraft can you give us an idea maybe the gross margin differential between some of the newer products like the M2 versus the Mustang? We wouldn’t give those number specifically in numerical Sheila but for sure we’re going to have two dynamics I think through the course of the year.
One is that we’re seeing stronger pricing on those legacy aircraft be it Mustang’s CJ2s CJ3 CJ4 XLS product lines.
I would say on a gross margin basis you know the things they are not going to be reflected in pricing are going to be the M2s and the Sovereigns and the gross margins on both of those products is good.
Okay.
And the first quarter out of the gate seems like you've been successful with new product launches of their gains and momentum.
I know it's a little bit early but looking back historically it seems like new products results in several quarters of market share gains.
You have few competitors coming out with new launches in late ‘14 and ‘15.
I guess does the sales force have any strategic views on this or how you're thinking about that? Well I think if you look at the market historically it does the new products do drive some market and share.
We’re certainly seeing that with the M2 and the Sovereign and I would say we see that certainly playing out through the year and I would say right now the business and the sales force I think is very enthusiastic about where the Latitude is.
You know that really will be what drives our growth I think in the 2015 timeframe.
So as we have kind of said we see the market sort of flattish with respect to demand for the legacy product so we didn’t make a lot of growth assumption there most of the growth driven by the introduction of new product.
So I came to Sovereign and TEN for the 2014 window and then you add on top of that going into 2015 the Latitude Program which we feel very good about.
The flight testing has grown fabulously.
We think we’re very much on track for that to having a meaningful impact for us in 2015 Okay got it and then just a last one for me.
We saw some indications from Congress about the V-22s for carrier usage; can you maybe talk about the potential to expand the V-22 within the U.S.
government? We think there is a couple of opportunities that are pretty significantly in the V-22 for it's future.
The replacement of the so called carrier onboard delivery vehicle we think it's a great opportunity.
That’s one where there has been a fair bit of work already conducted by the Marine Corps and the Navy looking at the utility of the V-22 to execute that mission.
The issue I think in the long run will really be how they decide to specific that requirement Sheila.
So if the mission is just purely to go from a land based airport to a big carrier deck that’s a fairly narrow mission and there is other ways including refurbishing existing equipment probably to get there.
The benefit of the V-22 is you can completely fulfill that mission but you can also go from any land site or any sea site to any ship because of the vertical takeoff and landing capability of the V-22.
So I think it's still too early in terms of where that program is there is not a hard requirement you know that’s been written there is a lot of study and analysis going on within the Navy.
So I think that program obviously is still a number of years out but we feel good about how we’re positioned because frankly that aircraft can do things and fulfill the mission in a way that there is -- that no other platform can do it and because it's a production unit and you don’t have a huge development program.
We also think it's a much lower risk approach than doing something like an overhaul of older aircraft.
So obviously from our perspective we get a lot better value you get a better mission and you get a lot lower risk but we’re few years from knowing the answer of that question I think.
Scott I think you mentioned the Sovereign you were booked one quarter out.
Can you just give a little color on how that's tracking versus your expectation and your initial plan for the year? I mean it's basically meeting our plan Shannon.
We expected once we got this thing certified and the aircraft was out there and plenty of demo assets for customers to fly it that would drive pretty strong demand and that’s exactly what we’re seeing.
So I don’t want to say hey it's the market is going crazy and you got a line up years in advance or anything like that but the aircraft is doing really well.
It's flying very well the performance has been great.
Customers love the new interior the added range the more sophisticated capable cockpit.
So far it's playing out as we expected.
Okay.
And then just maybe on this ASR you guys did.
I guess that's a one-off in the first quarter.
I mean any changes philosophy there and it doesn’t look like it really is much of an impact I guess it offsets dilution? As we said Shannon clearly we’re committed to making sure that we do as a minimum enough stock buyback to offset the dilutive effects of all the employee programs and that’s really what that was.
We just did it in the first quarter to kind of make sure we got the full year benefit of doing that in terms of other buyback opportunities we would continue to look at that on sort of an opportunistic basis.
But we will remain committed on a go forward basis that is the minimum.
We will always take out enough to offset dilution.
Just wanted to get my arms around a little bit more Cessna mix for the year and you kind of touched on it a little bit in your comments on the TEN and Sovereign.
So if I just look at Q1 right 130 your deliveries are kind of - M1 M2 Citation 10 start to come in but should we actually expect this quarter to be the high watermark for Sovereign? You are kind of caught up on a little spike and unit volumes really don't rise sequentially from here on Sovereign? They probably won't Jeff; part of this is an artifact of the fact that we certified the airplane so late by the time we got through everything in the fourth quarter.
So there were a few Sovereign deliveries that we would have preferred to have made last year and that late certification which couldn’t get through the whole delivery process on a couple of them.
So it's a bit high in the first quarter but we should have reasonable volumes through the balance for the year as well.
Does that apply for M2 also that you had a Q4 Q1 catch up and it levels off or does that work its way higher sequentially over the course of year? I think the M2s are fairly stable through the balance of the year.
And then I was just wondering on pricing from what I can tell it looks like orders were flattish to down slightly book-to-bill's 0.9 or 1 depending on how you round some things.
So do you think the better pricing is negatively impacting order intake or am I'm missing something there? No I don’t think so Jeff.
I think a lot of it is just timing related as I said if you look at the amount of activity in the marketplace the number of customers sort of just where they are in the order cycle.
It's better than where we were before.
So as we look -- I mean obviously if it wasn’t a signed order book with a deposit we don’t put it into the backlog but there were a number of deals that were in negotiation and kind of working their way towards contract which has now been closing here as we entered into the beginning of the second quarter.
So from an order book standpoint in terms of meeting our plan we think the trend is positive.
And just a quick housekeeping one for Frank.
So just looking at in Q1 the $40 million of PT&amp;A step up that’s separate and apart from the $60 million of restructuring and acquisition cost is that correct? That’s right and yes we will continue to see that step up will flow through segment profitability and impact the segment for the year and then we also have additional restructuring charges that we will breakout separately it will be a separate impact.
Scott just back to Bell and the 412 and the deliveries I heard you say it was just all timing.
Could you speak a little bit though to and maybe any detail behind that were there fleet customers that they are transitioning? Is it literally just the dates that the customers want their aircraft and maybe just bigger picture about the demand for that specific model and what's in backlog and what you are seeing? Sure.
I mean it really was just timing Joe.
We haven't seen a change in the demand of 412.
As you know a lot of times 412s do tend to be fleet orders and we had some fairly strong deliveries just again on timing in the first quarter last year of one of our larger fleet customers that had just scheduled a number of deliveries in Q1.
So as we look through the balance of the year again 412s do tend to come in fleet as opposed to sort of onesie twosies but I think in terms of customer demand fleet orders customer activities that’s why we still feel pretty good about the total year 412s.
And you expect to be you did 36 last year you still expect to be higher than that for that model this year? Sorry Joe I would have to go and look at my sheets on the exact number of 412s and we don’t usually publish that number but I don’t think it's appreciably different one way or the other.
It really is but our quarter is.
And then on maybe I missed it but on Beech what are the cost saves that are actually baked into your guidance now for this year? Not annualized but actually in the plan here? We haven't given that Joe and obviously -- I mean first of all we only have nine months.
We’re in the process of incurring at this point most of the cost associated with those restructuring activities.
So we’re not going to break that as a separate number but we included all that in terms of the numbers we have given you in terms of restructuring as well as the overall net margin number and so I don’t think we will break that out number separately other than to tell you it's receipt is about an 80 million run-rate for next year.
I'm just trying to think about the compare going into next year compared to this year how much I mean we get -- the step-up I assume doesn't recur you get a full year benefit obviously of EBIT.
But then how much incrementally do we get from the cost saves in ‘15 versus ‘14 if we don't know what's in ‘14 it is hard to make that comparison.
That’s part of the overall 200 basis point normalization Joe.
So it's part of that.
Okay.
Could you actually just run through that again I heard that number Frank but I didn't quite get it in your prepared remarks the 200 basis points? So if you look at a full year sales impact of Beech and if you look at the impacts that we expect to flow through from the purchase price impacts which are relatively modest going into ’15 but impact ’15 by about $65 million and then you look at the expected saving is coming off of that 80 million run-rate that we talked about.
You would get on a same volume as 2014 a 200 basis pick up in Textron Aviation margins.
I think gives you all the elements of the number and the reason we’re not trying to obfuscate anything the reason we are doing it that way is it's hard to identify and will be hard to identify as we move forward here kind of all of the cost savings and where things come from and everything else and we’re really looking as a consolidated segment operations and just trying to focus on kind of what our cost structure will look like in ’15 and therefore core profitability levels.
Fair enough.
And just one more.
You've talked Scott quite a bit about demand for some of the individual Cessna models and pricing.
I just wanted to touch on something that emerged a little bit last quarter which is the competitive environment in really in the midsize area in particular.
Is this something that's getting a little better? You've talked quite a bit in the past about how tough it is out there and I know you don't want to declare victory at all but is everyone seeing things getting a little better and maybe taking a little more price across the board? I think that’s happening Joe.
As I said on our legacy product where we compare price on a year-over-year basis prices are up across the line.
So but again it's still a very competitive market.
I mean every deal is a fight but I think as we go through that process obviously as demand is firming and a lot of is backed off in terms of how much capacity or what production run-rates are going that’s had the desired effect exactly as we anticipated it would.
So we’re starting to see that price firming having some price firming in the used market giving people that are out there looking to sell a little bit better collateral value as well as frankly just a stronger market so they can transact and get the liquidity.
I mean all those things I think are factoring into just a strengthening in the overall market and therefore you will expect a little bit of strengthening on the pricing side.
So it's not overwhelming obviously.
We would like to see it stronger but it's certainly improved over where we have been and that reflects in some of the improved pricing.
Scott you had good deliveries of the Sovereign and the M2.
Obviously some backlog spillover from the fourth quarter.
Should we expect the seasonal pattern here because of those strong deliveries in the first quarter that you are really flat to up in the second flat to up in the third as you burn off that initial backlog and then a big fourth quarter is that as you think about the quarterly pattern is that the way to think about it? I think that’s mostly correct Cai.
I mean that’s been sort of the nature of the business obviously last year we had very challenging second third quarters and then a much bigger fourth quarter.
We would like to see a flatter profile just in terms of -- it’s a little easier to run the business and little bit more productive to run the business a little bit flatter.
But as we look through the course of the year right now we would expect it to be sort of up slightly as we move our way through the quarters incrementally.
We expect deliveries of the TEN to come in here in the second quarter as Scott indicated which will impact things.
Right.
But I assume it is later in the quarter if you still have the paperwork to go or are you just all set so you could do you three of them in the quarter.
Yes and I think we will do several TENs we have customers that are kind of standing by and ready and wanting these aircraft.
The certification -- as we talked about before slid from where we wanted to do it.
We would originally like to have done at the end of last year and we just couldn’t get through that in terms of prioritizing getting the Sovereign through the process flight testing has taken longer than we expected and we have customers that are waiting for their aircraft.
So once the paperwork is done we will certainly get a few deliveries here in the quarter.
So you delivered eight King Airs in the quarter.
Can you give the split between the 350 250s and the 90s and maybe give us some -- a little more color on where you expect those three models to be for the year? I don’t know if I’ve the exact number here in front of me it was weighted towards 350s Cai.
And I think the full year will be weighted more towards 350s.
Okay.
Good.
And then a last one so if we back out Beech you did a 1.8% margin in the first quarter at Cessna and I think your guide is 2.5% to 3% excluding Beech and seasonally things get better.
You are talking about pricing improving.
Is that a realistic number? Does that have upside or is there something else happening in terms of the funding of R&amp;D that would make that the real number and not really a bit conservative which is the way it looks? I think it's a realistic number Cai.
As always we have said we will have a little bit better incremental volume as we go through the year not dramatically but I think we will also with the TENs coming in we have a mix that’s more oriented towards a combinations of TENs and Sovereigns which is good mix for the business.
Right but I guess my point is if volume is going up and you have a 25% plus incremental margin and mix is going your way one would think you would get a little bit more than what is it 70 to 130 bps off the first quarter given the seasonality you've got.
Again as we look at this right now Cai we don’t see significant increases in terms of quarter-over-quarter.
It will be up slightly but not dramatically.
Just a couple of questions to follow-up on the Cessna line of questioning.
Scott can you give us some sort of feel for how demand is for the Latitude? I know it was received well but is there any maybe color you can put around that or numbers or something? Well we haven't been giving order books specifically by model.
We have a number of orders already in the book for Latitude for sure.
But I think as we have talked about it before at this stage of the game we really need to have aircraft that are flying and fully outfitted and able to do demos and things of that nature and really start to build out that order book into 2015.
We have the initial aircraft that’s up and flying.
We have a couple of more that are in process including one of the aircraft which will be fully outfitted with the real interior design and that will be the aircraft which will be going to shows and starting to perform customer demos and I think we won't see a lot of order activity until that aircraft is out there because at this stage of the cycle I think before somebody lays a deposit on a $16 million $17 million [ph] airplane.
They want to see the real airplane and sit in the airplane and take a flight in the airplane.
So we understand that and we have the first couple of aircraft obviously we’re more dedicated to flight test programs.
We’re in the process of building out the first one that will be a customer demo aircraft.
Okay and then maybe shifting gears a little bit.
How is it is there an early read yet on how the move into flight simulation has gone with the integrated product last time I was up in Rhode Island we were talking about how Textron wants to offer an integrated package to the customers with flight simulation.
And how is that going? I would say right now we’re very happy with how it's going.
Our order rate on the simulator side of the business is doing very well.
There is a ton of opportunities out there in both the commercial air transport market as well as a number of different business jets and helicopter programs.
We already have our first development underway to support our own products that being the Bell-525 simulator.
So the team down in Florida is already started to work with the Bell team in the design and development of the 525 sim and so I would say obviously we’re only a few months into this thing but I feel very good about where we’re.
The thing is performing as we expected and the order rate seem to be pretty good.
Okay great and then maybe one last one back to defense.
My favorite product the Scorpion.
Last time we spoke you had mentioned that maybe by the end-of-the-year a customer would emerge.
How do you feel about that still and how is that program going.
So the program is going extremely well.
The aircraft is flying terrifically.
It's already over last week exceeded it's flight envelope so we have seen speeds in excess of what we’re advertising and still had more throttle push for the thing.
So the aircraft is flying very very well.
The guys are super happy with it and it's where we expected it to be.
We have a lot of marketing sales activity underway right now.
We have conversations going on with a number of different customers.
We have had customers that have actually come into Wichita to see the aircraft so I feel pretty good about where we’re.
But there is a big ways to go to get from that to where somebody signs the dotted line and actually places an order for the aircraft.
So by the end of this year I still think that’s a possibility.
We’re working hard to try to make that happen but I would say there is still a lot of work to make it happen.
Two questions.
First question is in regards to Cessna after market I realize that's something that you report in more detail annually than quarterly but how is it tracking as we finish the first quarter and enter the second quarter? It continues to track positively.
I say it's probably up mid-single digit kind of numbers.
Nothing out of the ordinary there? No you know for that business Justin if it just kind of continues to march along at that rate that’s very healthy.
I mean it's really driven by aircraft utilization and people coming in for service activity and what not.
So that’s one where you kind of expect to see nice steady growth that’s what we have been seeing and expect to continue see on the Cessna side and frankly we expect and just kind of factor that in as well in terms of Hawker and King Air size of business.
And my second question is just a little bit more general.
You've been in your role now for around four years and you're really taking a big step forward and consolidating the private aviation market with this Beechcraft acquisition.
What is the company going to look like in three years from now and what would make you disappointed three years from now if something doesn't transpire as you expect it to? I think Justin if you look at what’s really going to drive the business over the next few years particularly within the aerospace aviation side of this be that the aviation segment or Bell is -- I mean obviously you’re doing something like the Beech acquisition is a big deal but I think over the next few years what’s really going to drive our success in large part has to do with driving these new product program.
So we have the Latitude hitting in ’15 we got lot of other activity at Cessna we will talk about it in the future in terms of new products and when you look over it at Bell you got the 525 the 505.
I mean these are big programs that I think are resulting in products that are going to drive a lot of demand and share for our businesses in the market.
So those investments we’re making which are pretty significant right now.
You know really are the things that are going to drive our performance improvements over the next few years.
And it's interesting to hear you talk about new product.
With respect to Beechcraft I mean clearly that is an investment that is as large as many of the combined new product investments you are making.
What would be the upside scenario in Beechcraft and is it as likely now as it was when you announced the deal? We certainly feel just as good about it as when we announced it.
The market we think is still performing well for the King Air product line.
It's a great product; it's always been very well received.
Customers like it and it's a workhorse in that industry.
Obviously it's going to require sustained levels of new product investment and R&amp;D and upgrades and just like the jet business does so there are things that are announced out there that will be upgrades to that product line as it moves forward but I think what we thought we were acquiring in terms of that product is exactly what we got.
There have been no surprises whatsoever.
I think the brand is still in very good shape it's a strong brand in the marketplace good demand for the product and it's a great product.
It's exactly what we expected.
Yes just a follow-up Frank to the question earlier.
So in the fourth quarter you had $0.20 of operating benefit and $0.35 of restructuring for $0.15 dilution and now we got $0.08 so if you just -- what's changed in that? The restructuring number is smaller than the cost that we had thought at the time that we did it.
So I think if that’s the big delta George is the restructuring charges has come down a bit.
Okay.
And the operating number is about the same because it closed the same time you thought it would close? Yes I mean the operating number -- those were annualized numbers versus partial year numbers and so that has an impact.
As we indicated at the time we were going to have purchase price gross margin impact.
We have refined that number that's now expected to be about $65 million for the year and so I think it's largely a function of the partial year versus the animalization and then the -- a little bit of a change on that restructuring number.
And then just a follow-up Scott for you on the margin.
Is your comment that the margin won't go up a lot necessarily in subsequent quarters because the first quarter was somewhat high because of the high level of Sovereign deliveries which won't repeat? I think the margin rates will be incrementally better George because we will have obviously the Sovereign although Sovereign is probably a little stronger in the first quarter than the balance of the year because of the roll over for Q4 but then we also have the TENs based on now getting the certification done.
So the volumes will be up slightly through the balance of the year and I think the margin mix will be favorable.
So we will see some incrementally better margins.
I was trying to follow-up to Cai's point arguing that I agree with his comment that incrementally you would think the margins; your guidance for the year would be low.
So I was just trying to argue that maybe the first quarter was a little bit higher because of the Sovereigns otherwise I still think -- I agree the margin is probably -- your guidance is probably low for the year.
There is no question we had a lot Sovereigns in the quarter we probably won't have quite that number of Sovereigns on a go forward basis.
We will have the TEN so I think we’re just having a friendly debate about how much better should they be.
Okay.
All right George thanks a lot.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes our call.
Thank you for joining us and we will see you next quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Textron Second Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later on we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Doug Wilburne Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Rosanne and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today’s press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Textron's revenues in the quarter were $3.5 billion up $670 million from last year’s second quarter.
The Beechcraft acquisition completed at the end of the first quarter contributed $425 million to the increase.
Income from continuing operations was $0.51 per share compared to $0.40 in the second quarter of 2013.
Last year’s second quarter EPS was reduced by $0.07 per share and severance cost recorded at Cessna while this year's results reflected a full quarter’s impact of the Beechcraft acquisition.
The Beechcraft impact included an $0.08 EPS reduction from fair value step up adjustments of acquired inventories sold during the quarter and $0.05 in restructuring charges which were recorded on a separate line for acquisition and restructuring cost.
Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was $271 million compared to a $362 million use of cash in last year’s second quarter.
Pension contributions during the second quarter were $27 million.
And with that I'll turn it over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
Revenues were up 23.5% reflecting solid organic growth and contributions from acquisitions.
At Bell we delivered 10 V-22s and 8 H-1s compared to 9 V-22s and 6 H-1s in last year's second quarter.
On the commercial side we delivered 46 aircraft up from 44 a year ago.
On the development front during the quarter we received certification for the wheeled landing gear version of the 429 model in Taiwan and Argentina following first quarter approvals in Canada and Brazil which expands the appeal of the platform to a broader customer base.
We also delivered our first 412EPI model at the end of June to the New South Wales Police Department in Australia.
Our 505 Jet Ranger X development program remains on track for first flight this year as total (inaudible) demonstrated maximum continuous power during the first engine test.
We also continue to make good progress on the 525 Relentless as we completed the first all-composite main rotor blade received our first GE engine and began gear box testing.
Overall assembly of the first aircraft is also progressing and with the next month we will be ready to join the three main [capital] sections with initial flight targeted for late this year.
On the military side we signed the [another] contract for 24 additional H-1 aircraft worth about $450 million with expected deliveries beginning late next year.
We also continue to make progress to our potential foreign military sales for the V-22; negotiations are ongoing for the six initial units for Israel and we're working with a number of foreign governments which should result in additional [FMS] orders.
Moving next to Textron Systems revenues were down as we expected but program performance and a favorable mix of contract revenues resulted in the segment margin of 12.1%.
We continue to make progress on the Shadow TCDL upgrade development program successfully completing the final operational testing valuation during the quarter.
We also saw continued performance stability in our Aerosonde fee-for-service platform and we recently received a new task order to continue operating under the Navy ISR program.
During the quarter we also won a $190 million contract for approximately 360 sensor fuse weapons to be delivered to Korea beginning in the third quarter of next year.
Most recently we completed an acquisition for our new TRU Simulation Training business with the purchase of ProFlight an innovative provider of pilot training specializing in Cessna CJ series and Cessna [Caravan plus] turboprops located in Carlsbad California.
This acquisition of FAA part one 42 approved training operation was an important next step as we build our business aviation pilot training capabilities.
In addition we were just selected by Boeing to develop and supply the full flight simulator training suite for the new 737 MAX program.
This is a significant strategic win for TRU as we expand the air transport portion of this business.
Shifting to industrial we saw a good growth across all our businesses reflecting our continued emphasis on innovation new product introductions and bolt-on acquisitions.
For example in May we announced the acquisition of TUG Technologies a leading manufacturer of the ground support equipment in the aviation industry significantly augmenting our line of specialized vehicles.
In addition to the obvious sourcing and manufacturing synergies with our existing E-Z-GO Cushman and Bad Boy operations we will be able to leverage sales of TUG products around the world based on our global distribution channels.
Moving to Textron Aviation.
In the quarter we delivered 36 business jets and 34 King Airs.
In last year’s second quarter we delivered 20 jets and Beechcraft delivered 24 King Airs.
Trends of jet demand factor such as aircraft cycles corporate profitability and availability of used aircraft all continue to move in the right direction.
Despite the fact that we remain an in-spot market new products are supporting demand in this segment of the industry.
On the new product front FAA certification of the Citation Ten+ was obtained late in the quarter which allowed us to deliver the first three units.
We also completed the EASA certification of the new Caravan EX the M2 and the Sovereign+ in the quarter.
Our Latitude Program continues to progress towards an expected 2015 entry into service we now have two Latitude aircraft in test flight reaching over 100 test flights and expect a third to be available for certification activities later this month.
Moving to the defense side Textron Aviation.
We had two new orders for our T6 military turboprop [tankers] during the quarter; one for the Mexican Air Force for 12 units and one from the U.S.
Navy for 29 units which represent the last lot under the existing JPADS program.
Overall the T6 and the weaponized AT6 are generating significant international interest and we are pursuing a number of promising opportunities.
Our Scorpion program also continues to progress as it recently completed a 4 700 mile trip from Woodstock Kansas to United Kingdom to participate in the Royal International Air Tattoo and the Farnborough air shows.
Interesting the Scorpion at both shows has been very encouraging and we are in discussions with a number of customers with potential initial orders.
Scorpion is also scheduled to participate in a U.S.
Government emergency preparedness exercise later this year sponsored by the Pentagon's Northern command where we'll demonstrate its surveillance capabilities.
To wrap up we believe we had a very solid second quarter with strong revenue growth and improved overall margins and cash flow performance demonstrating that our strategy is investing in new products and distribution is paying off and we are seeing significant contributions for our M&amp;A investments.
With that I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Segment profit in the quarter was $304 million up $91 million from the second quarter of 2013 on a $670 million increase in revenues.
Let’s look at how each of the segments contributed starting with Textron Aviation.
At Textron Aviation revenues were up $623 million from this period last year reflecting $425 million of acquired Beechcraft revenue and higher new jet volumes.
The segment had a profit of $28 million compared to a loss of $50 million at the Cessna segment a year ago.
This reflected a $28 million charge taking into segment last year for severance costs higher new jet volume and the impact of the Beechcraft acquisition including a $33 million acquisition inventory step up impact.
Backlog in the segment ended the quarter at $1.4 billion down $100 million from the end of the first quarter.
Moving to Bell revenues were up $94 million reflecting higher commercial and military aircraft deliveries as well as a $41 million revenue benefit related to settlement with the U.S.
DoD related to the Systems Development and Demonstration phase of the company’s former Armed Reconnaissance Helicopter Program which was terminated in October of 2008.
Segment profit increased $6 million from the second quarter of 2013 reflecting a $16 million profit impact from the ARH settlement.
At Textron Systems revenues were down $140 million reflecting lower overall volumes.
Segment profit was flat despite lower volumes reflecting favorable performance across all product lines and favorable mix of contract revenues during the quarter.
Industrial revenues increased $93 million reflecting higher overall volumes and the impact of acquisitions.
Segment profit increased $15 million due to the higher volumes and improved performance.
Finance segment revenues decreased $4 million primarily due to gains on finance receivable dispositions during the second quarter of 2013.
Segment profit decreased $8 million primarily due to prior year impacts of loan loss reversals and gains associated with the finance receivable dispositions partially offset by lower administrative expenses.
Non-accrual accounts ended the quarter at $88 million down $10 million from the end of the first quarter while 60 day delinquencies were $96 million down 29 million in the quarter.
Moving below the segment profit line corporate expenses were $38 million interest expenses $36 million up from $30 million a year ago reflecting debt cost related to the Beechcraft acquisition financing partially offset by the requirement of our convertible debt in May of last year.
We recorded $20 million of restructuring costs in the quarter on the acquisition and restructuring line and we still expect full year costs of about $45 million.
Our tax rate was 31% and we're still estimating a full year tax rate of 31.5%.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
So Rosanne we can open the line for questions.
Alright.
Your first question comes from the line of John Godyn from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys thanks for taking my question.
The Bell margins at least versus our estimate came in quite strong this quarter.
The last that I remember management had suggested that Bell margins might come in a bit next year.
Is that still the right framework or are we seeing some -- any kind of core operating improvements that might actually improve the margin outlook as we look out? Well John obviously we're not at a appoint where we're going to give any kind of explicit guidance on 2015 margins.
Obviously there was some benefit in the quarter of settlement on ARH it was about $16 million which we would not expect to recur.
On the other hand we are working our way through as you know some of the higher cost as a result of last year’s issue.
So I think the margin rate in the quarter is about where we would have expected it to be in terms of operational performance.
We all know we'll see lower volumes on V-22s and lower margin rates on V-22s will be going to 2015.
So we still have some work ahead of us but we continue to put a lot of focus on cost control and tighten cost base to try to help us get there in 2015.
Got it.
And as we think about the long-term outlook for biz jet of course you have seen great contribution from some of the new product lines.
When we think about some of the legacy product lines though do we feel like we're seeing enough here that it's fair to say that these jet trends have sort of stabilized and on their way to a rebound as we look out longer term? If you could just kind of update us on your thought process there that would be helpful.
Well I think John stable is probably the word we would use right now.
I mean I think the market is okay for legacy products we're doing alright.
Obviously most of our growth this year which we forecasted and are realizing is a result of new products.
So when you look at full year Sovereign buses and M2s and now starting to get Citation TEN plus sales most of what we're seeing -- all of what we're seeing frankly in terms of upside in the market and revenue versus what we saw last year is really driven by new product programs.
Of course we expect to have a contribution in 2015 as a result of the fact that we'll have latitude as well.
So the underlying market stable is probably the right word and we certainly hope to see it recover as time goes on.
As I said earlier we're seeing fewer aircraft available for sale in the used market; all indicators are fairly positive but it's been stubborn in terms of the rate of recovery.
So we're still largely banking on new products coming into the market to drive most of the growth.
That's helpful.
And then just last question on the outlook for capital returns.
Operations have been quite good it seems like biz jet is stable integration on Beechcraft is going well.
Of course you have some debt here to pay down over time but I'm just curious what management's thought process on capital returns to investors going forward? So I think on the capital returns as I said we took some debt on obviously associated with the Beech acquisition and that’s kind of the top of our priority list in terms of getting that paid down to get back to where we think the balance sheet should be.
We will continue to do stock buyback to avoid the dilution of our employee plans and as we’ve said before we would on a sort of as appropriate basis continue to do some stock buyback beyond that if it makes sense.
So in addition to that of course we’ve had a number of small acquisitions.
And I will expect we will continue to see some number of small bolt-on deals.
So it’s not a lot of capital but I would say that’s in total how we view our use of cash flow balance sheet.
Very helpful.
Thanks.
Next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
It’s actually Chris Sands on for Joe.
Scott wanted to ask you about the outlook for the 412.
The first half run rate suggested that rate could be down quite a bit year-over-year which is in contrast to your expectation for growth overall in commercial.
Could you just give us any insight into the demand trends there? So Chris we were certainly very light on 412s in the first quarter.
The second quarter 412s were comparable versus 2013 and about where we expected them to be.
So we still do have sort of a heavier back half in terms of 412 deliveries.
And we don’t usually go down to guide on unit-by-unit basis but there’ll be relatively comparative numbers versus 2013 is how I would think about the 412 deliveries.
For the overall year or just in the second half? For the overall year.
I mean we are a little bit wider because of the first quarter was lighter the second quarter was comparable.
And I would expect as a result the backhalf will be a little heavier on 412s in last year so the total year would be pretty similar.
Great.
And then in Systems you’ve commented on the strong program performance kind of across the portfolio but can you quantify the overall level of [EACs] that added the margin in the quarter? Well we'll give you the guidance the total EAC number for the company so I wouldn't break it down into the division-by-division but we did have EACs in the quarter and I think we've seen pretty strong performance our procession ammunitions business is doing a nice job on productivity we're seeing it pretty much everywhere across the different businesses.
The only thing that I think we would refer to is we did have very good mix i.e.
in this quarter we were very strong on our procession ammunition business which tend to be a positive mix for us.
We didn't see a lot we did get through the final test evaluation on TCDL but have not started shipping-in in those units yet.
And obviously we're sort of in the transition on the vehicle side where we are very wide in the quarter because we are transitioning from the old April ramps and we'll now start to ramp deliveries for the Canadian program.
So those will all be a lot more third fourth quarter loaded.
Right.
And then overall your expectation for revenue and margin in the segments for the year hasn’t changed? That's right it has not which means you're going to see more revenue and a lower margin rate as we go into the back half of the year.
Right.
Alright thanks guys.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Sheila from Jefferies.
Go ahead.
Please state your last name.
Thanks Scott.
It is Sheila Kahyaoglu from Jefferies.
Thank you for taking my question.
I guess could you elaborate a little bit more in the conversion opportunities that you're seeing with hawker customers.
Has the sales force approached their owners? Any quantitative commentary would be great in terms of I think offering [March after] trade-in option is it the service offering how are you lowering them in? Well I would say it is kind of couple of step deal.
So the first step is as we talk about building that relationship so certainly reaching out to the hawker customers on the service front folks are already operating these aircraft.
There has been a lot of work going on to just make sure we have spare parts flowing and getting that channel filled again and making sure that we are taking care of the customers that already own the aircraft.
Clearly we have started discussions with a number of those customers around what they are going to do in the future and making sure that when they want to flip over to new aircraft or upgrade it’s going to be under our line.
So we have frankly a dedicated group of people that are working that pretty hard and interacting with those customers keep in mind it’s only been a few months that we have been doing this.
And so anyone that’s going to entertain a new aircraft or upgrading an aircraft there is usually a process that takes a little while.
So I don’t think I would say at this point here is x examples of hawker customers that have decided to move their next aircraft into the Citation jet but we fully expect that will happen overtime.
So but again the job one and the first thing we put a lot of emphasis on is making sure that the level of service and support is back to where they expect it.
And I think we are making some progress there.
Okay.
And then in terms of Cessna pricing of course or Textron Aviation pricing in Q2 could you comment on that? Did you sustain the momentum in Q1? And then also for overall Textron Aviation EBIT how should we think about cost for the remainder of the year and how that progresses?  So I think on the pricing front things have been pretty stable probably up just a little bit on most of the models in terms of our cost position I mean the run rate I think we are about where we need to be and we have the teams work pretty aggressively even before the integration period making sure we are ready to take the appropriate cost actions and for the most part those have been taken and we are I think more or less where we need to be at this stage of the game in terms of our cost run rate.
Got it thanks a lot.
Sure.
Your next question comes from line of Julian Mitchell from Credit Suisse.
Go ahead.
Hi thanks.
I just wanted to ask about the mix effect I guess within Textron Aviation.
You talked about the mix effect in Systems as we look at the second half.
On the Q1 call you talked about Tens and Sovereigns coming in should push up the Cessna mix on margins as we go through the year.
Do you still expect improvements in the second half versus Q2 or you think Q2 was a pretty representative quarter in terms of mix in Cessna? I think Q2 is pretty representative.
I mean for sure Julian if you compare it on a year over year basis we do have more sales obviously of the Ten+ the Sovereign+ in the mix.
So I think we're -- should be fairly stable in terms of the mix of the relative sizes of aircraft through the balance of the year.
Thanks.
And then on R&amp;D I think that was down about $14 million year-on-year in Q1 for Textron overall.
Is that a similar progression in Q2? That's a good question Julian I have not gone through the number it was reported… I don't think that (inaudible) the case because we're consolidating Beech now and that would be added in so it becomes a….
It’s just a timing issue.
Yes.
Got it.
And then just on now I guess your sort of first half clean margin is sort of 11% 11.5% if you strip out the ARH’s gain that's implying as for the fully you have a decent margins step up in the back half sequentially even things like V-22 deliveries are flat.
Is that just kind of timing on cost savings about coming through in the back half or is it sort of the mix from….
There is a bit of cost and there is a bit of positive mix in terms of the mix of commercial helicopters as well.
So now we would expect to see more 412 activity in the second half of the year.
Right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research.
Please go ahead.
Mr.
Sprague do you have your mute button on? Thank you good morning everyone.
Hi Jeff.
How are you? Hey just a couple clean up items if I could.
First just on Bell has kind of the capitalized costs that are in inventory from the labor disruptions and everything kind of worked their way through is there any residual impact to that left in the back half? Yes there is Jeff.
I think we've expected throughout the full year to see about a 100 basis points drag as a result of that working its way through.
So that will be the same in the second half to the first half.
Okay.
So there is no kind of tail off even from a run rate basis? Really starts with the tail as we go into the beginning of 2015.
And then I was wondering just on turning the Beech inventory and getting kind of the PPA step-up behind us where are we at on that perhaps Frank and how do we think about that in the back half for the year? Yes.
So we've gotten through 45 roughly of the 65 that we have talked about.
So there is about 20 to go and that will obviously hit the back half add that product and so it's probably a little bit heavier in the third quarter than the fourth quarter but it depends on delivery.
And then also just wasn't clear on Beech.
Are you implying that kind of Beech net of the step-up and restructuring and everything is kind of OP breakeven or can you give us a little color on just kind of the underlying OP performance at Beech? Well it's hard for us Jeff because we’ve consolidated all these things together.
So you're really we're not tracking given all the SG&amp;A all the engineering manufacturing; everything is sort of put together.
So we can still get some visibility on the revenue front the operations are totally integrated.
So we really don't have the ability to sort of tease out the differences between those.
I guess the only guidance I can give you is gross margin on products is pretty equivalent.
So I don’t think -- you can’t forget the accounting of the step up that the margin rates of the various product lines and their contribution are pretty comparable.
Right.
And I guess finally just directionally on Bell R&amp;D is that still have an upper or does that have an upward bias here with 505 and 525 also as you are looking at maybe kind of the overall Bell top-line coming down obviously with V-22 next year are you able to kind of compensate the R&amp;D investment?  Well there is some pressure on that Jeff and like 505 and 525 which will both go in the flight test programs late in the year or so obviously through 2015 there will be a very active program and flight test for both of those and of course we have the V-280 program which is also ramping up.
So there is certainly pressure in terms of R&amp;D new product programs associated with Bell given that level of activity.
Okay great.
Thank you guys appreciate it.
Sure.
Alright.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
It’s actually Jon Raviv on for Jason.
I had a question about your M&amp;A activity recently specially with the simulation business.
I was just wondering if you could talk about what the growth rate out gives you that business and how large you think it can get at this point? I know you talked about some numbers before but if you could update us there that would be helpful.
Jon I don’t know we give any specific numbers in the growth rate.
I mean I think obviously the reason that we went into the space was because we think at a macro level it’s an industry that’s going to be growing probably at least mid to high single-digits.
There are different segments of the market obviously.
Our intent is to participate on the air transport side as a simulator provider.
And I think you have seen that we’ve had sales that business has largely been in sort of the Boeing and Airbus commercial transport market.
This win with Boeing to be the provider for 737 MAX is obviously very big deal for us.
And so obviously as the 73 MAX comes into production and they start shipping those around the world we think we'll get some significant growth associated with that program.
On the training side it's obviously oriented towards our platforms i.e.
by Cessnas and Citations King Airs and Bell.
So we would expect that business to grow as we introduce new products and start to do more and more training with our new customers that come on line for those platforms.
So I don't think we're going to give a specific number.
I mean it's certainly reasonable to expect that it should be in the high single-digit kind of growth based on what's going on in the marketplace.
And clearly we would like to think that we can gain some share and that would help us always that to be a double digit kind of growth business for us.
Great thanks.
And I was wondering if you could update us on the cadence of business jet deliveries.
It seems like things are going to be a bit smoother.
I was just wondering what your strategy has been in making that happen versus especially how it's been the past couple of years? We would love for it to be level loaded.
Anytime you’re running a manufacturing operation and having a more consistent level load and that's how we like to manufacture and so having a working capital tie out.
So revenue was great and this year has certainly been much better than last year and that was there.
And part of that is the market and gain a lot of it is driven by the fact that these are new products and so the demand has been steadier for those in the marketplace.
We’re not competing with our used aircraft so things tend not to get all the way and trying to do deals at the end of the quarter.
So I think the order flow while it’s not as strong as we’d like to see it ultimately.
The order flow has been certainly a lot more level loaded through each quarter in the year.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr from Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks a lot and good quarter.
Can you give us a split on the backlog between Beech and Cessna? No I don’t think we are going to break that out Cai.
Obviously you’ve got Cessna you’ve got Beechcraft King Airs you’ve got the military business it’s all going to be in that one backlog number.
Okay.
And then the margin given the size of the inventory step up look considerably better than I would have guessed for the level of volume you achieved is that kind of -- is that sustainable or is there anything abnormal where there the used aircraft was a plus looked pretty good for the level of volume you achieved? No I think we’re pretty happy with it Cai.
I think that the restructuring activity associated with the synergies and combining the two businesses is on track with where we expect it to be and frankly we’re also seeing some good productivity as we’re bringing the teams together.
So it’s not just the synergies the reductions of headcounts but I think the operational efficiencies throughout the factories were also good in the quarter and that contributed to help give us a pretty strong margin rate.
Where are you in terms of your expectation of synergies for the year are they bigger the same? I think the synergies are pretty well on track and again I think to the extent there is upside Cai it’s the fact that we're just seeing better productivity and operation on top of the synergies.
Got it.
And maybe Frank you could give us an update on pension? With the expectation of a transition next year to new mortality tables discount rate is down.
Can you provide any color in terms of what we should expect from pension next year? Cai we're still looking at it and we won't have those numbers until we kind of formulate them at the end of the year and move into next year.
We have had pretty significant change in our workforce that we're running through as well and certainly interest rates where they are would put some pressure on things and the mortality rate will put some pressure on things.
So I don't expect it to be a headwind it's just a question of kind of what type of tailwind might it be and it's probably going to be lower than what we might have thought it’s what we said here the year ago but we're still working through those and can't give you explosive guidance on that until we actually run the numbers and get the guidance.
Terrific.
The last one TCDL are we likely to have any shipments there in the third quarter? Cai I hope so the biggest milestone that we needed to achieve is getting through the final operational test evaluation and we did that.
In the quarter there are still a few things just in terms of final configurations and working through to do the official [submittle] of the ECP into the customer and so those conversations are -- and that review process is ongoing.
So I would certainly hope that we will see some initial sales in the third quarter and then the balance of our plan in the fourth quarter but I would say worse case even if it's delayed somewhat I would still feel pretty confident that we'll get what we expect for the total year in the back half of the year.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning good numbers.
Thanks George.
I want to try Cai’s question a little differently.
Could you just sit there and provide of the $100 million decline in backlog how much of it roughly might have been due for Cessna and how much to Beech without breaking out the military part of Beech that’s applied to each? Yes George I obviously don’t -- I do not even know the answer to it because I haven’t we haven’t been splitting the number up that way so I don’t think we’re going to provide that in terms of guidance or status because it will just be the segment backlog number as we would normally report.
And I don’t think there is anything that I even know to say that there have been a material difference between how much of the backlog burn off came out of the Citation jet business versus the King Air business.
Okay.
And then one other on Beech.
In the first quarter you’ve said dilution for the year would be about $0.08 a share.
Is that number still the same or are you just not going to even provide it given that you’ve combined everything? I mean at this point it’s a combined operation.
We have reiterated our guidance that we gave the last time around.
So we’re really not tracking that separately now.
It’s a combined business and we’re moving forward on that basis.
Yes.
I mean George we honestly don’t look at it that way the engineering teams the manufacturing teams the sales marketing all these teams are now fully integrated.
So for us to even try to do that would be sort of arbitrary allocations of those functions to a product lines to try to come up with such a number.
So again it’s not how we operate the business and as a result we really can’t report it that way.
Okay.
And then just one in general Scott I mean we’ve obviously seen business jet cycles improve and as you mentioned everything is going in the right direction.
Can you just kind of size up the lower end of the market versus kind of the middle end of the market as you see it today? So I think the lower end of the market has been sort of stable.
We’ve seen good demand and deliveries on our M2 which is a new product.
I think things have been pretty steady for things like our CJ3s and XLSs.
We’re seeing a little more strength at the higher end of the market with the Sovereign pluses and the Tens but again I think that’s more driven by the fact that these are new products are getting out in the market as opposed to necessarily any real difference in generically speaking market demand between say light versus a mid or super mid size aircraft.
Okay.
And then just one quick one for Frank.
What was the growth in the aftermarket business at Aviation? Yes well and again it’s tough to look at the comparabilities because of we now have the Beech in the mix but we continue to believe and it’s trending at a mid kind of single digit higher single-digit type growth rate on aftermarket.
So business continues to perform well there.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski from Drexel Hamilton.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys nice quarter.
Thank you.
Hey just on the strong Aviation margin this quarter the underlying rate of like 5.2% I mean will you guys attempt to kind of raise margin guidance for the full year from that 2.5% to 3.5% or do you have any performance concerns in the back half of the year just strictly the spot market nature of the business right now? It’s very much the latter Pete.
I think that we’re pleased with how the integration has gone the synergies are coming along as we expected we feel good about plant performance the operational side of things.
And while we like that it’s been a more stable market and we’re balanced there is still a lot of work to do in terms of sales activity in the second half of the year result.
Okay got it.
And then just a couple of quick… For Iraq I just have to say I think that's our first temptation question in my experience doing IR.
Thanks for that.
Not a problem.
I wanted to ask something -- a couple of program questions.
It looked like you guys were negotiating with Iraq on a sale of AT6s it looked like it could be a nice deal for you.
Is that -- what do you think about the timing on that given what's going on over there? Well it's a very good question.
So there has been discussions of an [AT 6T] over the Iraq.
Frankly there are several things across our various businesses that have been in discussion with Iraq.
And of course we sold things in Iraq before.
So I’d say it's very hard to predict where those programs are going right now.
There is clearly a desire for the products the Iraqis continue to express desire to acquire them but government is awfully busy with a lot of other things right now.
So it's -- the level of instability makes any transaction difficult.
Understood understood okay.
And last one on Scorpion.
It wasn’t very long ago the Scorpion seemed like it was going to be very kind of far out.
But it seems like a lot of momentum is building and I'm just wondering what your view is.
I mean should we start thinking about factoring in some Scorpion revenue at this point for 2015 are we that far along at this point? I wouldn't get too far ahead of yourself just yet.
So what we are encouraged there has been an awful lot of customer interest having the aircraft to kind of make its debut publicly over here and to be seen by an awful lot of foreign militaries which is sort of our principal customer target at this stage of the game has been encouraging.
But as you know when a military looks at acquiring an aircraft there are budgetary cycles there is a lot of work to do to translate something where somebody says hey that’s very interesting that would fit well and taking it from that discussion to an order and then a ramp up of production is going to take some time.
So I feel pretty good about where we are.
I think the product is performing flawlessly.
I mean the guys have done just a super job.
It’s flying very well everybody is thrilled with it customers are very impressed with it but it’s going to take time.
We really just started to market the product.
So it’s going to take a budgetary cycle or two to take interest and to turn it to doors.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Miles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Thanks good morning and good quarter.
I think in response to question on a trajectory of Bell R&amp;D you talked about some of the upward pressures from the new programs and the dollar; I am curious can you do the same kind of commentary around Cessna and particularly with the latitude probably winding down a bit on spend and a lot of it is just to do spend in particular how that cadence should look?  So as we went into this year we expected R&amp;D to be down slightly at Cessna in terms of the jet business I mean just comparing the old Cessna to the sort of piece within the current business.
Just because we had so much (inaudible) activity last year that really drove certification activities that drove quite a bit of the R&amp;D cost.
At this stage of the game our principal aircraft that really is in the certification is latitude.
So you have one instead of three and that does save us somewhat on the certification cost.
So I think that's the expectation I would have this year and I expect that to be the same next year.
I think it will probably hold reasonably flat on a consolidated basis.
Right? So if I look at what's going on on the jet business there was money obviously being spent at Beechcraft associated with upgrades and keeping the King Air line and T6 and AT6 lines active and I think we'll see that.
So I guess my view going from ‘14 to ‘15 would be that it's probably neutral in terms of R&amp;D as a percent of sales if you will.
And is your view on the longitude and expansionary nature of Cessna jet portfolio is still the same in terms of timing for that kind of entry into service and expansion of the offering?  Well we're always looking at the line but I think that the trend towards investing in some of the larger aircraft will absolutely continue.
So our guys continue to work in the longitude program.
There's number of things we're doing.
I think you'll see we continue to be committed to growing the sort of a larger end of our fleet of jets.
Okay got it.
Thanks.
Sure.
(Operator Instructions).
And your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
Please go ahead.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Good morning Rob.
On the first question I was wondering if you could comment on used aircraft activity in Textron Aviation and what sort of trend you saw there in the second quarter.
Used activity continues to be good.
We moved a number of aircraft in the quarter.
I'd say the used market in general has been pretty solid.
In terms of valuations I wouldn't say we’ve seen a significant pick up although we’ve seen some of the reports have seen a little bit of strengthening in some of the pricing some of the lighter end.
And I think in general that’s what we’re seeing.
So it's stable and most importantly the market is active our aircraft do turnover which is good.
Okay.
Second aviation question this might be tough.
But you mentioned stability a couple of times in the business jet market and like.
But is it reasonable to start expecting some stability in the backlog as well? Well I mean obviously the two are going to be correlated rather they're still selling that goes on in the quarter for the quarter and so you can see increased levels like we've seen in this quarter of selling that doesn't have a positive impact to the backlog.
But that's the result of still having a bit of spot market.
There is still more selling than we’d like to see obviously for a quarter in a quarter we have some models out that's we've said before and pushed out where availability is out there the next quarter but there are still aircraft that are available for sale in the third quarter.
So I think as long as we have an environment that we'll kind of make it hard to see a lot of growth in backlog and we've been fighting our way through that now for five years.
And just a final one industrial margin was a very solid in the quarter.
How do you expect this to trend for the rest of the year? The second quarter is always our strongest just because of the cyclical nature of the different businesses and how they contribute.
But I think what we’ve seen in the recent past and we expect to continue to see is that if you look on a year-over-year basis we're going to continue to see some expansion in those margins and part of that's driven by volume part of that's driven by new products and some better pricing.
So I think across the board we feel pretty good about where those businesses are.
So second quarter is usually a peak margin rate for the year but I certainly expect on a year-over-year basis we’ll continue to see margin expansion each quarter.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Rice from Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Hey Scott just one quick follow up on sales activity in the second half.
So I think on the Sovereigns in particular I think you said that the 1Q the Sovereigns has booked about one quarter out.
Is that still the case there and how confident are you filling any empty slots for that particular aircraft (inaudible) particularly you got close to the Latitude launch date?  Well we still see there are still some slots on Sovereign pluses that are available in the year.
We have got I would say a pretty robust set of customer leads and through this year we have been in that mode and those deals have been closing.
So the Sovereigns plus has been performing really well it has had great receptivity from customers and I would say again it’s in this market environment which has been sort of stable the demand for the Sovereign plus has been pretty good.
So lots of customer interest lots of demo flights and lots of deals that have been closing.
So I think we feel pretty good about it.
The Sovereign plus versus Latitude I mean certainly the Latitude has a larger cross section to the cabin but it is a 6 seat aircraft as opposed to the Sovereigns which is the double club and the Sovereigns also gives you that coast to coast range.
So we still have customers that need that range capability and need that pay load capability and so I think the Sovereign plus remains a very strong platform even with Latitude into the market place.
Okay great.
And then just to confirm one thing I think I heard APG you were talking about some data point suggesting that the used market pricing had taken another turn down but it sounds like from your comments today that the actual pricing in the used market is relatively stable is that right?  Yes it really does won around by model.
So I think the last set of books for the first time people are talking about some positive price on some of the CJ3s for instance and things like that.
But you are always -- we still continue to see some price degradations on some of the aircraft and quick part of that is just the aircraft get old right.
So you are always going to see a certain amount of price decline.
But I would say net of overall what we're seeing in terms of our transactions and sort of a book reflected in the industry is that it's been pretty stable and are in good progress.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Sure.
And you have follow up questions from Cai von Rumohr from Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Yes just one question.
I mean it looks like in the quarter you kind of beat expectations from a profit line in all of your businesses.
It sounds like tone of business is pretty good and you didn't raise your guidance.
Is that just being conservative or is there something we should be more worried about in the second half? Cai I think that we are feeling good about our operations and how things are going.
As I said earlier I think when I look at the Aviation business as well as Bell on the commercial side there is still a lot of sales activity to go in both of those businesses that's kind of where we've been for some time with Cessna and I think with King Airs and we feeling good about the prospects and the customer activity and order closure rates and things like that.
But there is still a lot of work to be done.
Similarly on the Bell side I think operating performance actions the team has been taking have been good but even at Bell on the order side we still have aircraft to sell.
And well that market has been pretty strong we are seeing a little bit slower closure activity there is a lot of bid activity but there is not -- just from where we would like to be right now on the year the number of deals that have closed to ensure those third and fourth quarter sales has been slower coming than we would have expected.
So the year is always a bit back ended great loaded and it’s going to be the same this year.
But I think operationally we feel very good about where things are.
I would be a little conservative on upside just given the nature of how much selling activity still has to happen in the Aviation and Bell segments to close up the year where we’d like to be.
Thank you.
Your next question is a follow-up from Jason Gursky from Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys it’s Jon Raviv again.
Thanks for taking the follow-up.
Scott just on that point in terms of Bell closing activity being a bit slower than expected just wondering if you guys at all have any color to that why you think that might be the case? We don’t know.
I think it’s kind of a sense that we’re getting across the whole industry.
If you look at the reported numbers or what not there is again still a fair bit of activity.
I think part of it is some uncertainties and in some parts of the world.
I guess we have some opportunities pending in places like Russia where there has been a lot of change in their economic outlook over the last six months.
And I think some of those kind of orders are kind of pending until people understand where that’s going.
There is still a fair bit of uncertainty in Latin America there is it’s just -- I think there is clearly demand out there but I think a lot of people are going through their processes and getting the bid packages they see their needs but they’re a little slow pulling the trigger right now.
Are you seeing any impact in terms of closure activity due to heightened competition with there being more players in particular segments in [aftermarket]? I think this is an industry wide I mean everything that we’re kind of hearing is there is nothing unique going on at Bell I think it’s just the industry as we serve and just kind of what’s going on in those sectors.
But again deals are -- these are all competitive deals and so the guys are putting up bid packages.
It’d be a different story if we were losing deals.
It's -- I don't see any trend or significant difference in terms of a share issue there competitive deals and bids are submitted and people are sort of just delaying making the awards.
Great thanks so much.
Sure.
And your next question is a follow-up from George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Please go ahead.
Yes Scott.
I was wondering if you might comment on what percentage of deliveries at Cessna you still need to sell for the second half of the year and how that compares to where you were at this point last year? Sorry George I don't know.
I mean obviously we don't publish that number.
I don't think there is a huge dynamic.
I mean as I said the back end of this year compared to the back end of last year has a lot more new product in it particularly the third quarter.
So we're -- I went back to the numbers I would say we're probably in somewhat better position just because we have a lot more new product here in the third quarter.
And as you’ll recall we didn't have Sovereigns and the M2s until the fourth quarter last year.
So at least for the third quarter we're certainly in a better position than we were a year ago.
Could you comment on how many TEN deliveries you might expect or the ballpark for the year? No we wouldn't we did three -- so I mean in the second quarter as we just finished the certification but we've kind of talked in general terms in the past George I think the TEN is probably sort of 6 to 10 aircraft a year kind of market the way we see it.
Okay.
Thanks again.
Sure.
Alright.
I believe that completes calls in queue.
So thank you ladies and gentlemen for joining us.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
The conference will be available for replay today after 10 am Eastern Time and will be available until October 16th at midnight.
You may access the replay system at anytime by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 307-262.
International participants please dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 with the access code of 307-262.
That does conclude the conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Textron Third Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to our host Vice President of Investor Relations Doug Wilburne.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Brad and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I’d like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today’s press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron’s Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Textron’s revenues in the quarter were $3.4 billion up $526 million from last year’s third quarter.
The Beechcraft acquisition completed at the end of the first quarter contributed $398 million to the increase.
Income from continuing operations was $0.57 per share compared to $0.35 in the third quarter of 2013.
Textron aviation operating results included a $10 million reduction to segment profit from fair value step-up adjustments to acquired Beechcraft inventories sold during the quarter plus there was an additional $3 million charge related to Beechcraft restructuring costs which were recorded on a separate line for acquisition and restructuring costs.
Together these items reduced EPS by $0.03 per share.
Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was $144 million compared to $269 million in last year’s third quarter bringing year-to-date cash inflow to $304 million compared to a use of cash of 580 million at this point last year.
Third quarter pension contributions were $17 million.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
Revenues were up 18% in the quarter reflecting success of new product investments and our acquisition strategies.
For example at Industrial we saw growth across all our businesses reflecting the impact of new production introductions and recent acquisitions in the segment such as TUG Technologies Dixie Chopper and HD Electric.
On the new product front Textron’s specialized vehicle we introduced the new Recoil iS Crew an electric Bad Boy Buggies vehicle with the cargo bed and two forward-facing bench seats.
At Jacobsen we rolled out a completely refreshed TurfCat front rotary mower featuring all-hydraulic; traction drives with the lowest cost of ownership in this class.
In Textron Tools &amp; Test in August we made a small technology acquisition that resulted in the launch of a new product The DataScout 10G which further adds to our currently family of Ethernet/Transport network analyzers.
At Caltex revenue growth reflected ordinary strength in the North American market which did overcome some softness in Europe.
Moving to Systems revenues were down in part due to delay in TAPV vehicle program for which we had expected to begin delivers in the quarter.
During the reliability testing in August we identified the need for a number of durability improvements in the vehicle steering system and in cooperation with the customer we decided the best approach to suspend the testing to support an optimal redesign and retest process.
Our initial analysis indicates that we’ll be able to meet the vehicle durability requirements with relatively minor modification [to us] during system.
We expect to redesign validation retest process we’ll do initial deliveries by about one year.
Elsewhere in systems we’re making progress on a number of fronts.
Our TCDL program the customers agreed to begin accepting production units which commenced during the fourth quarter.
Our Unmanned Systems business which recently awarded a contract to provide an Unmanned Naval Mine Detection System for use in conjunction with the Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship.
This will validates investments we’ve been making to leverage our unmanned aircraft technologies in the marine-based applications.
Our [SIMTRU] Simulation and Training business we now have plans to open an East Coast Citation training facility in Tampa Florida which will complement our West Coast facility in Carlsbad California providing more convenient access for our customers.
And earlier this week we announced we’ll be opening a training center in Valencia Spain in 2016 with the Bell 429 full flight simulator as our initial offering.
On the air transport side of TRU we delivered a Boeing 737 NG simulator that we used at Boeing Training Center in Singapore.
We also won a contract to provide China Express Airlines with the Bombardier CRJ 900 full flight simulator for pilot training and a contract to provide Airbus A320 full flight simulator at Ansett Aviation one of the largest training operators in Southern Hemisphere.
In our Bell segment we delivered 12 V-22s and 4 H-1s compared to 10 V-22s and 7 H-1s in last year’s third quarter.
On the commercial side we delivered 41 aircraft down from 54 a year ago.
We continue to see slow order flow across the commercial helicopter market compared to last year and at this point with only a quarter ago we expect 2014 commercial deliveries will be down from last year’s 213 units.
Despite this environment Bell’s win rate remains favorable especially with our model 429 where deliveries are up year-to-date over last year.
In China we received regulatory approval to conduct helicopter pilot and maintenance training for our growing business in the country.
During the quarter we were also named the number one product support organization by Aviation International News for the 9th consecutive year.
We continue to make great progress on development of our 525 Relentless program.
Our first two test vehicles are in final assembly and manufacturing process is going smoothly thanks to large part use of new digital design and manufacturing process tools.
We’ve also begun safety flight testing for most of the major components of the systems.
However in order to accumulate the hours necessary to demonstrate safety margins on all components we now anticipate first flight will occur during the first quarter of the year.
Development of our 505 Jet Ranger X program is also proceeding well with first flight still expected by the end of this year.
We also broke ground for our new 505 assembly facility in Lafayette Louisiana.
We continue to sign new customer purchase agreements reflecting solid demand for the aircraft in the marketplace.
Moving to Textron Aviation in the quarter we delivered 33 jets and 30 King Air turboprops.
In last year’s third quarter we delivered 25 jets and Beechcraft delivered 26 King Air.
We’re seeing a number of encouraging trends with Textron Aviation.
First integration of Beechcraft is going extremely well which is evident in our cost productivity with a significant sequential improvement in margins.
Another example of integration benefit is the roll out of the new product support program for our King turboprop customers based on Cessna’s ProAdvantage life cycle service program.
On the market front we continue to see the availability of used aircraft come down and our only used trading activity has improved.
In the new aircraft market we have seen a pickup in order activity since September.
With improving market dynamics we’re encouraged as we prepare to exhibit our full line of products in next week’s annual NBAA show including the debut of the first fully configured Citation Latitude.
I was in [with talks] several weeks ago I have the opportunity to see the NBAA Latitude first hand.
It’s a great looking airplane and it makes an impressive statement about value comfort style and performance.
In fact with over 600 cumulative flight hours and development program we recently announced that the aircraft’s range has been increased to 2 700 nautical miles.
To wrap up we believe we had a solid third quarter with overall revenue growth improved manufacturing margins and solid cash flow performance.
Furthermore our strategy of investing in new products is paying off and we’re seeing significant contributions from our M&amp;A investments.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott.
Good morning everyone.
Segment profit in the quarter was $293 million up $85 million from the third quarter of 2013 on a $526 million increase in revenues.
Let’s look at how each of the segments contributed starting with Textron Aviation.
At Textron Aviation revenues were up $487 million from this period last year reflecting $398 million of acquired Beechcraft revenue and higher new jet volumes.
The segment had a profit of $62 million compared to a loss of $23 million at the Cessna segment a year ago.
This reflected the impact of the Beechcraft acquisition higher new jet volume and favorable pricing and inflation.
Backlog in the segment ended the quarter at $1.4 billion approximately flat with the end of second quarter.
Moving to Bell revenues were up $20 million reflecting higher V-22 program volume partially offset by lower H-1 and commercial deliveries.
Segment profit increased $15 million from the third quarter in 2013 primarily reflecting favorable performance.
At Textron Systems revenues were down $47 million reflecting lower Marine and Land Systems volume partially offset by the impact of acquisitions.
Segment profit was down $8 million reflecting the lower volumes.
Industrial revenues increased $74 million due to the impact of acquisitions and higher overall volumes.
Segment profit increased $1 million reflecting the impact of higher volumes offset by an unfavorable mix of revenues in the quarter.
Finance segment revenues decreased $8 million primarily due to gains on finance receivable dispositions during the third quarter of 2013.
Segment profit decreased $8 million primarily due to prior year impacts of loan loss reversals and gains associated with the dispositions partially offset by lower administrative expenses.
Non-accrual accounts ended the quarter at 101 million up 13 million from the end of the second quarter while 60 day delinquencies were 70 million down 26 million in the quarter.
Moving below the segment profit line corporate expenses were $22 million and our tax rate was 30.7%.
Interest expense was $37 million up from $29 million a year ago reflecting debt cost related to the Beechcraft acquisition financing.
We recorded $3 million of restructuring cost in the quarter on the acquisition and restructuring line and we still expect full year cost of about $45 million.
During the quarter we repurchased about 4.1 million shares at an overall cost of about a $152 million.
We also repaid $200 million of our $500 million five year bank loan from the Beechcraft acquisition.
Finally we are increasing our full year earnings per share from continuing operations guidance to a range of $2.05 to $2.15 a share and increasing our estimated manufacturing cash flow from continuing operations before pension contributions to $700 million to $800 million.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
So Brad we can open the line for questions.
Thank you.
And our first question will come from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Scott just first of all on the Systems side of things given that there is some large lumpy programs here if you could just maybe give us an update on what you expect revenue to be for the year relative to your earlier expectations.
And then I know you’re not going to give 2015 guidance yet but as we think about the year delay on the vehicle program what’s the profile sort of the quarterly run rate we should be thinking about until you start those deliveries? So first of all Joe the revenue at the Systems is probably going to be down about 300 from what we were originally forecasting and that’s principally driven by vehicle programs.
Okay.
And then into next year? We are probably not going to go into 2015 guidance yet Joe.
We have a lot of work to do here at the balance of the year and make sure that we know where we are on the TAPV program in particular we’re well into the analysis phase; we feel pretty good about where it is.
We’re just based on that starting to lay out what that recovery plan looks like.
So I think we probably would prefer to wait and give you the guidance on that when we get into the January call for 2015.
Okay.
Over Aviation good margin there but when we think about the Beech cost saves that you laid out at the time of the acquisition is there a way of thinking about how much of that is now embedded in on a run rate basis in the Q3 number? So Joe absolutely I mean clearly what’s happening here is that the number that we guided you guys we’re getting there quicker is basically what’s happening.
So I think the speed of the integration of the cost takeout the integration of the organizations and whatnot has happened quicker than we laid out.
So I think we still feel pretty good about the absolute numbers that we gave you but we’re going to get there sooner.
So obviously that’s going to drive some margin expansion in the year that’s part of what -- the largest part frankly what’s driving our increase to our guidance.
We had said originally that to help you guys think about ‘15 to think about a couple of hundred basis points improvement over where we would be this year obviously that’s not going to be as bigger number because we’re going to achieve more of that this year.
So when you think about going forward it’s not going to be a 200 basis points because we’re sort of raising the bar this year only because we’re getting there quicker.
Okay.
And then just finally sticking with Aviation here you mentioned I think you mentioned that orders have ticked up since September I wasn’t sure if you’re talking about the certain models or maybe if you could just give some context there and talk about the market environment and demand environment for Cessna jets in particular? Yes.
I think we have seen an overall better demand environment I mean July and August are always tough people are out on holiday.
But there is no doubt that as we got in the sort of the September and the beginning of October timeframe we’ve seen a pretty significant uptick in terms of the demand a lot of activity up here and it’s pretty much across the Board.
We’re still doing very well.
And M2 this year it’s a new product and across the CJ line we’re a little bit wide on CJ3 this quarter but that’s driven by the fact that was really the transition for the old CJ3 to the CJ3+ which is now certified.
So we feel good about demand for that all the way up.
Sovereigns is still doing very well XLs are doing well.
So I think we feel probably have seen one of the strongest September October levels of activity that we’ve seen in quite some time.
Okay.
I’ll turn it over to someone else.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Hey good morning.
Thanks.
I wondered if you guys will expand a little bit on the mix impact that you called out in industrial as unfavorable.
And then perhaps just tell us there was anything in the Bell margin that was one-time in nature perhaps related to the getting to the end of the V-22 multiyear contract ahead of the transition to the next one? Thanks.
Sure Carter.
So on the Bell front first of all; there was nothing unusual in there.
I think if you look at the total company in terms of cumulative catch adjustments it was only $10 million across all of Textron.
There certainly was some positive contribution there in Bell but nothing that’s unusual for us in a typical quarter.
So it was really driven by strong performance in the business.
As you know we’re still playing our way through a little bit of trapped inventory costs from last year’s issues and efficiencies around some of the labor activities.
So we still face a bit of that headwind but I think the guys did a nice job of performing and delivering a pretty good margin rate in spite of that.
So no there is nothing unusual in there.
It’s just -- continue to try to drive the cost base down in the business.
With respect to the Industrial segment the margin this is the first time in a while we’ve not had a margin expansion on a quarter-by-quarter basis in that business.
It’s a little disappointing but I think we’ll call that back here as we did into the fourth quarter and still turn a year that has margin improvement in the business.
In terms of the mix largely driven within our automotive business we’re seeing some significant growth in our SCR business.
And as we talked before the SCRs do come with a lower return on sales because there is a large component of cost that’s largely a pass through on that.
And so that does provide some dilution in terms of our overall ROS number.
And so that was probably the biggest moving part in there.
It’s been a tough year frankly in the golf and in the turf business.
We are I think you probably heard of that from everybody in the turf side so Jake is having a little tougher year than usual.
But the CapEx piece and the mix around SCR versus our blow molding tank side is the primary driver.
Okay great.
And just perhaps one or two for Frank just clarification; on the Beech inventory step up impact I think you said last quarter you’ve been through 45 or 65 you called out you said another 10 this quarter.
So are we still expecting a kind of 10 million in the fourth quarter? And then with respect to the corporate expense it looks like given the pattern of the first three quarters it might be under running that full year expectations slightly.
Is that the case and did that contributed all to the increase in the guidance as well? Thanks.
Yes.
On the step-up yes we’re at 55 now as you point out and we expect about 10 for the fourth quarter and then we’ll carry over probably about 15 into next year as well in terms of additional step-up.
So there is no change there.
On corporate expense no you know that we always have quarterly volatility; it revolves around kind of share price activity and just levels of spent.
So we’re still looking at about a 150 million for the year.
Okay great.
Thanks gentlemen.
And our next question will come from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Noah.
Scott I wanted to ask about Bell commercial and I guess what I’m wondering is you had this big step-up the past two years in a pretty strong market to this kind of 180 to 215 aircraft call it per year.
Each of the next two years as you see it now does this business stay up in that kind of annual delivery range or was there so much demand from a particular end market or a particular product cycle recently that this business needs to revert back to the 150 to 170 kind of range that it had in a lot of good years but not quite as good as 2013 we’re in the past? I think we’ll stay in the range that you talked about at the beginning here.
I mean predicting the end market obviously is a bit of a wild card and we are seeing some slowness right now.
But I think what’s important is that our share has increased over the last couple of years as a result of a lot of what we’ve done on the product side.
So even in a market that would be like the market had been back when we were in those call 115 days to 150 days I think our share has improved and would keep us in that kind of 180 plus range; last year it was 213; I do think will be down somewhat from that as we look at the balance of this year just because of what’s happening here softens.
But I don’t see us going back to the old days primarily because our share is in a much better position.
And clearly as we get into 2016 and beyond as you add in the 505 and 525 I think that really gives us that next step-up in terms of where we’ll be from a total number of deliveries of helicopters.
So again try nicely it’s a little bit from the market because I can’t really predict that but I certainly have seen as we’ve talked about before our share increase and I think the products investments are certainly paying off and 505 525 will only help that going forward.
On the market can you elaborate on where you’ve seen some incremental softness; is that in oil and gas because of oil prices or elsewhere any color you can give us there? Well I think some of the oil and gas has been softer we’re seeing some of the slowdowns in EMS certainly things around tourism.
It’s really kind of across the board.
And I think it’s just a lot of people concerned about what’s going on around the world economically.
So I don’t know that we’ve seen; it’s probably too soon yet to see what the reaction of the oil and gas market is to the drops in the price of oil.
But that’s a variable; I think it still needs to play out.
I think most of what we’ve seen this year versus where we expected was around things like EMS and certainly some oil and gas has been a little softer even before we’ve seen these changes in oil price.
Okay.
And you called out favorable pricing in Aviation.
Any additional detail you can provide there on where and to what degree you saw that? In terms of the Aviation business? Yes.
It’s more or less firmed up across the Board on our products I think part of that again is driven by new products having the M2 out there; having the Sovereign out there; the CJ3+ upgrade I think certainly helps us.
And importantly on the used side we’ve seen prices are not going up but they’re firming and not continuing to drop in that residual in fact certainly has a knock on effect into new aircraft pricing as well.
And the inflation comment that’s separate from pricing can you just explain what that is and why it’s different? You called out pricing and inflation separately in the press release I think.
Yes.
We’ve seen some deflation in Aviation just kind of due in part to outdoor scale and kind of purchasing activity and things.
So we’ve kind of benefited from some good cross productivity on the supply side in Aviation as well.
Yes.
I think that’s just Noah general category of productivity right? I mean we’re seeing some good productivity in terms of labor and the plants; we’re seeing good productivity in terms of supplier purchasing; it’s really across the board.
Okay.
All right thanks a lot.
And our next question will come from Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning.
Hey Bob.
Scott I thought I should start on the Industrial division and whether you’ve seen any signs of weakening in some of these European markets over the last quarter and what your expectations might be for the final quarter here including foreign exchange? So foreign exchange hasn’t been a big issue for us it’s kind of immaterial number for the company and even for -- within the automotive business.
But I would say Robert that there is no doubt that we have seen weakness in the European auto market.
And so our European sales have been down that’s largely been offset by the fact that North American market continues to be up and the Asian market has been up slightly.
So the combination of those other markets and again a lot of expansion in new products particularly driven by SCR is offsetting just volume demand of the European models of cars.
And then maybe switching over to Bell you’ve talked in the past about some of the prospects for V-22 export.
I was wondering if anything has progressed over the last quarter whether we summed up some of these prospects.
I would say no.
Okay.
Hey I mean it’s just -- look Robert I mean there is a great deal of frustration on our part.
The deal with Israel which has been talked about a lot is still moving forward but it’s moving forward at a slow pace.
There has been progress.
I mean the F&amp;F cases are working our way to the process.
So I think Japan has been talked about a lot.
It continues to progress it just progresses very slowly.
I wish I could tell you that in one quarter’s time I see a lot happened but it takes time.
And then maybe just a final one for Frank.
Any comment on pension and what the changes in discount rate could mean for next year? Yes.
I mean obviously there is tremendous volatility in rates and returns and everything else right now.
I’d say kind of overall; we don’t believe it will be a headwind.
We thought it would be a tailwind.
It will depend a lot obviously on what happens between now and year-end but kind of as we look at the sensitivity around it right now we think that kind of it will be no worse than flattish type area.
And does the MAP-21 legislation have any change on your contribution? It pushes out some ‘16 ‘17 required contributions.
It doesn’t have any impact on ‘15.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
And our next call question will come from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Scott I was just hoping you go back to your comments on biz jet demand.
I think on the last call the view was legacy product continues on exciting and new product is sort of driving all the motor activity.
Now you broadened up that commentary which sounds exciting I mean it sounds like legacy product is doing better.
I’m just curious sort of taking a step back; we’ve seen a lot of [head bakes] in biz jet uptick.
And you guys have done a good job kind of moderating expectations but it can’t help but interpret your commentaries very positive.
What’s different this time? Is this not just seasonality? Why is this -- why are these data points that you’re seeing now maybe stronger and maybe have more signal value than what we’ve seen in the past? We probably feel better about where we are right now again partly due to new product.
So we got the M2 which has been very well received we got the Sovereigns doing well the TEN is doing fine I mean it’s just not large volume product.
Now with the CJ3+ in there that gives us one more product offering in sort of the middle of the product range.
But as we’ve said earlier I think the demand has been -- we expect it to be fairly constant.
And in the total marketplace most demand creation will be associated with new products.
And that’s what we’ve been seeing happen through the year.
And the good news with that obviously as we’ve had a full year or some of those new products like the M2s and Sovereigns and TEN; is we’ve been a bit more level [loaded].
So we don’t have this huge fourth quarter run-off to get to where we were targeting in terms of the total year.
And the demand is there and so we feel pretty good about our ability as we look out over the quarter or so to feel good about what the demand looks like and what our production rate looks like and what our available for sale looks like.
So the total market has certainly improved.
The better linearity of being able to run the business for more linear function is helping and it’s helping to drive some of our cost and performance.
And so I think that’s why we feel pretty good about where we are.
Obviously as we look into 2015 on the basic theory that the new products are what helps drive your growth with the Latitude performing as well as it’s performing the way the aircraft looks the way it flies we’re feeling pretty good about the demand for that aircraft.
We have the first one out there now it’s already doing a bunch of demo flights it’s going to be out there at NBAA and I think it’s a beautiful aircraft and it will help us in the 2015 if that thing comes in the revenue generation.
That’s helpful.
And when we think about aviation margins you had some commentary about synergies and pricing.
But if I just sort of put it altogether I mean as a simple point can we use this quarter’s margin as a base for forecasting going forward? It’s very strong; there are things in the number that you would highlight as sort of being irregular for whatever reason for the purposes of forecasting going forward? No I don’t think there is anything irregular in there.
It’s just straight performance.
And so that kind of margin rate with that kind of volume is certainly expected.
Great.
And then just last one on capital allocation.
About a year ago when the Beech situation I think was a bit harder we were talking about buybacks but obviously the Beech deal I think took that off the table for a bit you’ve been very successful and in fact accelerating some of the synergies on Beech.
At what point and is it time now to have the conversation about buybacks again? Thanks.
We’ve -- our position especially on buybacks as you know has been that we’ll do enough to offset dilution of employee programs and that we look at sort of additional buybacks on an opportunistic basis.
And so we did do in the quarter about $4 million of -- I am sorry 4 million shares of buyback in Q3.
I guess I mean more of a larger scale buyback with cash flow.
Well I think at this point we’re also still doing things like paying down our bank lines associated with the acquisition of Beechcraft.
So we have to sort of have a balance here in terms of what we’re allocating in the paying down the debt associated with Beech as well as trying to continue our buybacks.
So I wouldn’t expect us to come out and announce some committed number.
I think we’ll stay on the commitment of avoiding dilution and opportunistically executing buyback programs as we see fit.
And the good news is our cash flow generation and strength of balance sheet I think allows us to be able to do both those things as we’ve been doing.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
And our next question comes from [Johnny Wright] with Nomura.
Hi guys.
Just couple of questions from me firstly probably for Frank backing into your revised cash flow guidance I think you’re looking for something like $650 million in operating cash flow in 4Q on net income of around $200 million.
So you’ve got say $100 million in depreciation but there still out $350 million gap.
Can you just maybe talk through that is it a big working capital swing or is there anything else unusual in that 4Q cash flow? No there is nothing unusual.
And if you look at kind of our seasonality and quarterly progression Q4 is always a very strong quarter both from a profitability standpoint but also from a working capital performance just given the seasonality of the business.
So there is nothing unusual in there.
So for the full year you expect to have a positive working capital movement something like $100 million to $200 million is that fair?  I haven’t worked through what that means in terms of the overall working capital but if you look at the fourth quarter this year I mean this year’s fourth quarter progression is based on that guidance is actually down significantly from last year.
So again there is nothing unusual on the working capital.
Okay great.
And then you talked about China and helicopter market in your prepared remarks those had a big order this quarters in China obviously a lot of potential there.
Is there anything changing in that market? Do you see any prospects for actually some demand from China coming through? We’ve had good demand from China over the last couple of years.
I think part of that is just the economy is generally doing well.
There has been a lot of liberalization of aerospace in the lower altitude which is where helicopters fly and so everything from corporate EMS to public inspection utility infrastructure surveillance things like that which drives a lot of helicopter markets around the world.
We’re just seeing continuously that market grow in China and we’ve been doing very well over there.
Actually we’re pretty pleased with our position in China and being able to -- it’s getting a big enough market and a big enough demand which is what’s driving us to start to do more training as well as airport training over there to help support the deployment of aircraft.
Okay great.
And just one final on Latitude you talked about increasing the range of that aircraft.
Is there any potential to get the existing Latitude amount to the 3 000 nautical mile range or would that need a bigger redesign or a new aircraft? That would be a bigger aircraft for sure.
Okay.
And I guess it’s pretty too early to talk about it but any plans to compete in that sort of coast to coast market with a flat body jet? Probably not going to make any new product announcements… Okay thanks guys.
I’d say if we did want to sign you up would that be a commitment of any kind? Sure.
And our next question comes from Pete Skibitski from Drexel Hamilton.
Hey good morning guys.
Hey Pete.
I might have missed that are you still expecting 4.8 billion at aviation this year including 1.5 at Beech? It’s a course there Pete it might be just a little bit lower not on jet deliveries but a little bit less on used and couple of fewer [caravans] but in that range.
Got it okay.
Okay.
And then I guess Scott I just -- obviously just trying to figure out the cycle here on biz jet to some degree.
How do you think about Beech being -- revenue being down sequentially? And then I thought Sovereign pluses you made some positive comments but I think that used always Sovereigns were down sequentially also.
I’m just wondering how you think about that and maybe you can give us also kind of what book-to-bill was in the quarter for Citations? Let’s see Pete.
Actually we don’t really keep very close track at year-over-year comps on the revenue number with Beech’s because Beech wasn’t part of us and we’re certainly reluctant to try to look too much at the financials.
But sequentially -- sequential I’m sorry we’re down but it’s only a couple of aircraft.
And so I think we’re pretty linear about the King Air product line and I think we continue to feel good about where we are and the demands about what we expected so plus or minus a couple of aircrafts.
It’s about what we expected and for the linear from quarter-to-quarter which is good.
On the Sovereign+ side an aircraft or two demand is still very good.
I think we’re going to be where we expect it to be on the total year.
So the book-to-bill in these areas is pretty close to 1 to 1.
We’re not really seeing a whole lot of change from what we expected.
So again on a sequential basis we might be plus or minus a couple of aircraft but it’s about where we would have expected it to be.
Okay.
So kind of still sort of a flattish market but you just intuitively feel little bit better than you did the last quarter is that a fair statement? Yes we do Pete.
I mean look the Q3 is usually pretty soft I mean if you look at the amount of order activity in terms of what flows in July and August is generally pretty light.
And as you know Q4 usually tends to be a little stronger.
People are back from holiday they are looking at stuff and of course as always hopes that they don’t capital at the end of the year and from a tax standpoint we’d just take delivery a Q4.
So I think part of this -- again there are smaller numbers sequentially from Q2 to Q3 but I think usually within the normal cycle of how we see that market working.
Okay.
And then just last question on Latitude can you remind us what quarter next year you’re expecting the first Latitude delivery and do you built any backlog yet? And how should we think about the slope of the production ramp on that program? So we have built some backlog we’re still expecting to have certification in Q2.
We’re as you know we don’t fully control that process so if it’s early in Q2 we’ll get some sales in Q2.
But certainly the vast majority of the Latitude sales I would expect to see in Q3 and Q4.
And is that going to be a fast ramp or…? Yes.
It’s already being ramped.
Look the beautiful thing about this aircraft is a lot of the aircraft in terms of wings and all the cockpit systems are common to what we just did on the Sovereign+.
So obviously it’s a very new -- large a much larger cross-section cabin.
But and also lot of the key components and technology we developed as part of the Sovereign+ program.
So we actually run these things as sort of a mixed model line if you will.
If you go into the factory we can run things down the line and whether it’s a Latitude or Sovereign it flows together quite nicely.
So from a production ramp perspective it’s one that drops into our line very nicely.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Yes.
Thanks so much.
So your guidance for the year as I recall you were at 2 billion on System so if you’re down 300 it’s a 1.7 billion and so you’re basically saying volume will double in the fourth quarter from the third how common? That seems like a huge jump.
Okay.
It’s driven by the TCDL program.
So as you know we’ve been working on this program for what seems like a very long time going through all development work.
As I said in the prepared remarks we now have received approval from the customer to accept the units in the fourth quarter.
Now those units have to go through their final acceptance test there is quite test involved with the air vehicles and such.
So that will happen here over the course of the fourth quarter but we do now have their approval to go ahead and commence the production shipments.
And so that’s why the fourth quarter will be disproportionately higher in revenue than what we’ve seen because we’ve built these units Cai.
They’re manufactured and they’re ready to go now that we have approval we can go ahead and go through the formalities of the final production test life test and acceptance.
And we expect obviously that product to be happen here in the fourth quarter.
Is there sort of a disproportionate delivery in the fourth quarter because if we annualize that rate you just get a humongous number next year respecting even you don’t have any vehicles in the fourth quarter? Right correct.
I mean we’ve had no sales associated with that program in any of the preceding quarters.
So it’s going to be a big spike in deliveries here in Q4.
And again the only reason that’s possible is these things have been built.
We’ve been building them for the better part of the last year or so.
And it’s just a matter now of having to go through the production test and acceptance as opposed to normal production flow.
So without a doubt Q4 is much heavier.
And as you go through 2015 you’ll see a normal flow of deliveries of those units not all of the contract units all in one quarter.
Got it.
And so if we go to Bell you did 12 V-22s.
As I recall you’re looking for 36 for the year.
So it looks like you go down to 6 in the fourth quarter.
So the mix which looks very favorable in the third would look pretty lean in the fourth; is that correct or has the full year number changed? No I mean the full year number hasn’t really changed Cai.
I think all you’re seeing is that of course the fourth quarter is the beginning of the next contract year and so we’re now stepping down from the multi-year deliveries to the next multi-year.
So the run rate of V-22s is now going to step down and stay down at that level as we go through the next few years.
Well given that you’re getting the step off and you have such a great mix in the third quarter do you still feel comfortable as you look at next year that you’re going to hold Bell’s margins above 10%? Absolutely.
Look Cai we’re still targeting the 12% number.
I think the reason you’re seeing the kind of margin numbers you’re seeing and certainly our expectations for margins for fourth quarter is because we’ve been taking a lot of cost actions to prepare the business for that lower run rate of V-22s.
And I feel pretty good about where we are on that; the team has done a nice job of getting us where we need to be.
Obviously we’re not going to talk about a guide to 2015 yet at this point.
The number we haven’t determined is what our expectation should be on the commercial side of the market.
We certainly know where we are in the military side of the market; we know what we’ve done in terms of cost.
So we’re still targeting the 12 and where we end up will have largely to do with what’s our perspective on volume in the commercial market in 2015.
Got it.
And so if we go over to Cessna so you’ve seen a pickup in demand in September and October; normally you kind of set your production targets in the fourth quarter for next year.
What’s your strategy going to be in kind of establishing the production targets for Cessna? Cai they’ve largely been set because the lead time the cycle time I should say on manufacturing in the jet world is depending on the model and I mean obviously we have some degrees of flexibility from model-to-model but you’re anywhere from 6 9 12 months.
So we’re already running the production lines with the volumes that we would expect to see in 2015 including new things like the Latitude.
Now we can make and always have the ability to make adjustments to that and as we go quarter-to-quarter we do that.
But it’s for the next few couple of quarters it’s pretty well set.
Well if it is pretty well set what kind of flexibility do you have to take it up and to what extent are you more inclined to leave it set and just basically get stronger pricing? Well I think at this point we are -- our strategy is what we see in the marketplace what we still believe is going to have in the marketplace is relative stability in terms of overall market demand and most growth or upside driven by new products.
So as we think about our production rates for next year as we’ve been thinking about our production rates next year that’s kind of what we forecasted this year and what we’re thinking about for next year.
So we’ll keep most of the volumes of products about where they have been.
And we would expect to see some upside from growth driven by the introduction of Latitude.
And then in terms of the cash deployment I mean with this huge step up and deliveries on TCDL your cash flow is going to be very strong in the fourth quarter kind of as you have indicated.
How come you don’t buy more stock what’s the cash being saved for? Sure Cai.
As you know and as Frank said we’re a bit seasonal in terms of cash.
And so we do generate a lot of cash typically in the fourth quarter that is mostly coming out of working capital in terms of usually inventories principally around the aviation and helicopter business.
We’ll continue to deploy cash as we’ve talked about in the past.
And that is largely around to pay down on debt I mean we did take on a fair a bit of debt associated with the Beechcraft deal we’ve already paid down a couple of $100 million of that we’ll continue to pay that down and we’ll continue to be opportunistic about stock buybacks.
So as I said we took out 4 million shares here in Q3 and we’ll continue to look for opportunities to buyback additional as we think it make sense.
Thanks a lot and good job.
And our next question will come from Miles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks good morning.
First I want a clarification on the margins guidance for Cessna I imagine if that’s where most of the guidance uptick is coming from you must be looking somewhere in the mid force of a little bit later on sales to Pete’s previous question is that right? I think we’re -- we really don’t want to get into guiding on each individual segment but you’re certainly correct.
I mean the upside of what’s driving the raise is certainly better margins in the aviation segment largely offsetting lowering up in the Systems business as a result of some of the vehicle delays.
And again we factor in some softness on the Bell commercial side which we’ve already factored into our numbers.
So it is driven by the aviation but I don’t think we’re going to revise any kind of guidance on a segment-by-segment.
All right that’s right.
And then aftermarket commentary within Cessna and Bell if you can comment on the trends you’re seeing there I guess Doug alluded to maybe that was maybe a little bit on the top-line pressure for the full year but just the overall trend in the quarter that you saw in the [C7s] would be great? We’re still seeing mid single-digit growth in our service franchises in both the Aviation and the Bell helicopter markets and that’s there is a little volatility from quarter-to-quarter but it’s been pretty steady and about where we would expect kind of top-line mid single-digit sort of numbers.
We probably see it from a record basis a lot higher than that because of the Beech integration for this year but in terms of actual growth it’s probably mid single-digit.
And then one last one maybe for you Scott is as you roll out the new products obviously there is an international buzz an initial pent-up demand and then often times there is a bit of honeymoon where it states so on the CJ4 you see another programs.
How do you think about the kind of the timing of launching obviously M2 has got a great reception and there has been the Sovereign likewise is there one year kind of phenomenon than you kind of normalize to where the true demand is or how do you think about that? I think in this market it’s really -- certainly our expectations would be the deliveries on things like M2s and Sovereign will more or less stabilize where they are.
I don’t think that there is certainly back in earlier phases just like where we had a huge uptick and then kind of went back to a normalized level.
We’re not expecting big changes going forward as we look at things like in M2 or Sovereign.
So that’s why I say I think our expectation is for those things which (inaudible) and transitioned into being a legacy product if you will is that they’ll just follow general market demand.
Okay got it.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Hey hi.
This is Charlie for Julian.
I know that you guys said you wouldn’t comment on the kind of segment margins but just was curious if you could maybe just comment on systems just given the big kind of swing in revenue guidance for the year? Is that positive for the margins or negative or negligible? I don’t think we want to get into segment margin guidance.
Sorry.
Okay.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Hey good morning.
I was wondering I know you touched on this briefly before but maybe just a little bit more color if you don’t mind on your activity that you’ve seen in September and October to the extent that that results in deliveries in the fourth quarter and whether we’re now beginning to take orders for further out and now actually starting to (inaudible) where we can build some backlog? Absolutely Jason I think that’s where we are.
This is probably the part of the positive feeling that we have right now is that we clearly see a fourth quarter where the amount of aircraft we have left to sell is not as many as that we probably could sell.
There is a market demand and so that would lead us to start moving deliveries into the first quarter of next year which I think is a very healthy thing for the business.
Getting out or having sort of a negative or one-to-one book-to-bill I don’t think and we talked earlier I think that the days of two years I mean crazy numbers of backlog are not technical but we’d sure be able to run a much more efficient operation and have a much healthier industry if we had six months to nine months of visibility so that we’re not having to sort of do forecasting around our production lines and customizations and things like that.
So there is no question that if we can get to a point here where we’re at least three to six months out that’s a much healthier business.
And I think we’re looking at the fourth quarter as the first time we’ve seen in a while where we clearly see more demand out there in the market than what we think we have aircraft available to sell in the fourth quarter.
And that will necessarily for some things in the fourth quarter which is -- into the first quarter I’m sorry which is good.
Right.
Okay that’s great.
And then as you look at the two businesses together Beech and Cessna; and then the acquisitions which you brought in here of late can you just help us and explain to us how you’re thinking about seasonality in that in the aviation business going forward? Historically we’ve obviously seen some; is that becoming more muted is it the way altogether or are we going to still continue to see seasonality into the second half of the year? Well I think there is -- I believe there is always going to be a seasonality around the fourth quarter and that even by tax.
So you have a lot of customers out there that given their brothers they’d rather take delivery of an asset or they can take a year depreciation in the current year rather than acquiring that aircraft in the first half of the following year.
Is that a huge number? I don’t think it’s a huge number but I don’t think that some seasonality around fourth quarter will ever go away in the industry because of that.
The good news is again as we looked at both of our King Air business and the Citation jet business it has been more level loaded of a lot of this year and that probably reflects some better demand coming back to the marketplace and obviously we prefer to see that.
We would be much better running these operations on a more linear basis.
We see more linear behavior towards the customers this year but I still think you are always going to see some fourth quarter demand driven around tax.
Okay.
And then the last one from me is on the Industrial side.
Are there any new products or programs that you’ve been designed into and any of those businesses on the Industrial side that will lead to an acceleration of revenues over the next several quarters into 2015? Yes.
Look I think if you look at our Caltex on the automotive side of things we’ve had a lot of new vehicle new platform wins in both the fuel tank side as well as a lot around our selective catalytic reduction business there was demand for that vehicles; that family of vehicles grows in the marketplace that’s going to drive nice revenue growth for our business.
As I said earlier the only challenge for us there is it does usually have a lower ROS because part of the system is in acquired part which we pass-through at a lower ROS and would be typical of what we manufactured just because it’s a high dollar source component.
But clearly revenue growth and overall not growth will be driven by that business.
And so it’s a lot of new platforms which we won and new product around the SCR system.
We still see nice growth both organically and through acquisitions in the vehicle business as well as our tool and test business.
So I think generally speaking the industrial segment I think will provide nice growth next year.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Good morning.
Scott given how strong you said September and October has been is it fair to assume that the pricing might even be somewhat better in the September October orders and what we saw in the strong margins in the current quarter? George I wouldn’t be too bullish on the pricing side.
I think the good news is that it’s firmed up.
So -- and again this is the market dynamic as we’ve got more customers out there it gives us the ability to hold the line on pricing.
So I don’t know that we see a step function by any means here I don’t want to mislead anybody but it’s not like the market is strong enough the demand the kind of pricing that was in the last cycle but certainly it has allowed us to firm up pricing and at least be stable maybe with some small gains because the market dynamics are stronger.
So it’s just supplying demand working a little more in our favor.
And the strength you talked about was that similar international domestic or weaker international given what we all read about? George our order intake in Q3 I think was still slightly biased to the Americas but it’s probably 60-40 some more an [eminent] balances around a little bit from quarter-to-quarter.
But it’s not way out of line.
Okay.
And just some clarification given the revenues you’re suggesting for Cessna in the fourth quarter it looks like we’ll probably get 70 plus deliveries in the fourth quarter?  No 70 would be -- I’d love to have 70 but that’s an awfully big number.
I don’t know if we want to get into exact units George but again I think we’ve usually seen average aircraft revenues as I think kind of how we usually think about it being somewhere in the 8 to 9 range.
So 70 or something would be a pretty huge number.
Okay.
The revenue number will be higher than that number we talked about.
Okay.
And then one last one if you split it all give any color on whether the book-to-bill of one for aggregation was similar with both Beech and Cessna? It was pretty close George pretty close on both Beech Cessna military versus commercial.
It’s pretty close to one to one across every dimension that we would look at.
And how about used plane sales in the quarter say versus last year’s quarter much different? I’ll have to check the revenue number.
I mean we usually have been looking at that one sequentially George.
So I’m sorry I don’t have that number on my tongue here.
Certainly on a sequential basis it was… but we’ll update you on...
It was about flat from a revenue standpoint.
On a year-to-year? On a year-to-year  And up a little bit sequentially you just said Scott? What he was saying I think average selling price was up a little bit sequentially.
Okay.
I can call you offline Doug.
Yes now we can try to -- we can get those for you George we just don’t have it.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Good numbers.
And our next question will come from Sheila Kahyaoglu with Jefferies.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
I guess how do you think about the underlying profitability for the Beechcraft business as it stands today and where you see the run rate do you think you need additional investments in the King Air portfolio and what about the service business? Is there additional capital required to increase the level of service there? Sheila we don’t track report separately the Beech number and part of that because we’ve completely merged these entities.
So I mean all the overhead pulls all the engineering R&amp;D what now results triggers one thing.
So I wouldn’t have the ability to breakout overall profitability of say historical Beech versus historical Cessna.
But we’re at a point where feel pretty good about the productivity that’s been driven and that’s benefitting obviously across all the product lines.
In terms of R&amp;D we will now and we already are looking at the turboprop product line the same way we look at the jet product line and laying out new product roadmap plans upgrades enhancements all the kind of things that people have expected us to do in the jet business.
So absolutely there will be investment on the R&amp;D side into the King Air and other historical Beech products as we go forward.
And we think just as we do on the jet side that we’ll have some good things coming out in the market as time goes on.
In terms of capital I don’t see any big capital outlays.
We’ve got I think a very strong service network now around the world.
And I think we’re capitalizing on that in terms on taking some of the new service program offerings.
We’re trying to take most of our sites now and make it sort of capable of doing not just Beechcraft but also doing Citation jets or if there were Citation jets now they can also do Beechcraft.
There is some tooling involved in that just to make sure that each of the sites have the capability to do both but it’s not a material number.
Similarly on the overall aviation business side of things what CapEx is in there is really driven primarily by new product introductions.
And so I don’t see any appreciable sort of change if you will over what we’ve seen in the last couple of years because the flow of the new products will be pretty consistent with what we’ve seen in the past.
Okay.
Thank you.
And so just is there any way you could provide a range of where the -- whether it’s King Air or the Cessna system portfolio; is that a mid single to double digit 10% margin business or is that at about a breakeven? I don’t think -- we’re not going to into margin levels yes by individual product lines.
And then just last question in terms of Beechcraft synergies you mentioned you are ahead; I’m guessing 2014 has largely been focused on headcount.
In terms of what’s left for 2015 is it supply chain; is it additional footprint consolidation; how could we think about? Mostly what’s out in the 2015 really is around some footprint consolidation we have some warehousing and sites largely to do with our distribution of spare parts and services where we’re going to consolidate some of that.
And then there are some opportunities to do some consolidations in some of the back shops if you will.
So we don’t envision any significant changes to final assembly operations.
Those are running pretty well and are pretty focused around the different model types.
But there is an awful lot of stuff that we today where we have two separate composite operations we have two separate machining and metal bonding and a lot of fabrication sort of stuff.
And we will continue as we go forward to see consolidation of those to again drive better cost efficiencies and better utilization of those facilities.
Got it.
Thank you.
Sure.
I think we’ll take our last call now operator.
All right.
And that will come from Ron Epstein with Merrill Lynch.
Yes.
Hey good morning.
Good morning.
So just want to follow up on kind of one my favorite subjects with you guys is what’s going on with the Scorpion? Are we any closer to customer or if you could just give us an update there? Look Ron I’d say we’re getting closer all the time.
We have a bunch of customers frankly that we’re talking to.
There is a lot of activity in the market.
There is a number of countries that are going to be putting out RFPs for how they think about replacing some of their aircraft.
And part of that frankly is driven by the fact that there is something like that’s out there now that they see as a viable affordable product to meet their mission.
So we continue in pretty serious discussions on a number of fronts and feel pretty good about where we are.
We did have the aircraft out at the Air Force Association meeting in Washington a few weeks back; we had a ton of customers coming through and looking at it; we continue to get very good feedback; we’ve had a lot of customers that have come out to see the aircraft and go through pretty detail briefings in Wichita as well.
So I don’t want to -- I don’t have anything to announce to you particularly today but I think we feel pretty good about where it’s going on.
And we’re in pretty serious discussions with a number of folks.
Okay.
And on that one do you guys see it as a potential or maybe some modification to it as a potential bid for the upcoming China program? Yes absolutely Ron.
We’ve been participating in the T-X program.
There have been industry days; there is a lot of work going on in the Air Force right now as they kind of work their way through requirements definition.
So we are certainly inched in the program; we’re following it quite closely as our number of other competitors.
Look I don’t think the Air Force is interested in the big development program so I think clearly one of the things they’re going to have to do is look at what aircraft platforms are out there that are available that with some minor adaptations will fit what they need for TX.
So we would love to participate in the program.
We’re working the program and how competitive we are or whether our aircraft is the right aircraft or not will depend on where the requirements document ends up.
And that’s something that I don’t think we’ll probably see till late this year or beginning the next year to know whether the Scorpion or a minor adaptation to the Scorpion is the right answer for them.
We’re certainly very interested and we’re following it very closely.
Okay.
And then maybe just one last one.
So you guys delivered 33 Cessna aircrafts in the quarter.
The mix was clearly skewed more towards M2s; M2s clearly has been well received.
But relative to historic levels it’s still pretty [anemic].
When we think about -- and again I know some sort of thinking about ‘15 ‘16 I mean is it okay to walk away from this call thinking we’re in a market recovery or is it more walking away from this call that it’s stabilized? You know Ron I still think that the way we think about it is that it has stabilized.
And again upside to where we’ve been is largely driven by new products.
That’s been true this year as we’ve seen mostly growth driven by M2 and Sovereign.
And I think that my plan right now would be that most of the growth next year would be driven by the Latitude introduction.
So we feel good about where the market is I mean it certainly appears to have stabilized.
So as I said earlier we like the level of demand that we’re seeing.
But I don’t want to say that we think there is some significant inflection in the market just stability on current aircraft programs and new programs driving growth is still how we see it.
Okay.
And then maybe just one last one that’s not a fairy topic in mind with Medtronic.
Have you picked up share you think by offering a training package with the Cessna product? Do you think you’ve picked up share from likes of CAE in flight safety in that market? I think Ron it’s still too early to say.
I do think that -- and we’ve had great feedback from a lot of our customers particularly our CJ customers.
As we acquire ProFlight which gave us that CJ training capability on the West Coast.
As I said we’ve now announced that probably by the second quarter we’ll have that same training capability up and running in Tampa.
So we do have a lot of our CJ customers that are giving us great feedback unlike the idea of being able to not only acquire the aircraft but take care of all their sourcing aircraft and the personal training in the aircraft.
So I do think it will help us.
I don’t know in that case not so much a share shift of the equipment side of the business but some share shift in terms of the training side of the equation.
Okay great.
Thank you so much.
Sure.
All right.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be made available for replay after 10 O’clock today and running through Tuesday January 27th at midnight.
You can access the AT&amp;T Executive Playback service at any time by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code 307263.
International parties may dial 1320-365-3844.Those numbers again 1800-475-6701 and 1320-365-3844 with an access code 307263.
That concludes our call for today.
Thanks for participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Textron Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
During today’s call all phone participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to Doug Wilburne Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Gail.
Good morning everyone.
Before we begin I’d like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today’s press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron’s Chairman and CEO and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Textron’s revenues in the quarter were $4.1 billion up $591 million from last year’s fourth quarter.
The Beechcraft acquisition completed at the end of the first quarter contributed $556 million to the increase.
Income from continuing operations was $0.76 per share compared to $0.60 in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Textron Aviation operating results included an $8 million reduction to segment profit from fair value but the fair value step-up adjustments to acquire Beechcraft inventories sold during the quarter.
Plus there was an additional $13 million charge in the quarter related to Beechcraft restructuring costs which were recorded on a separate line for acquisition and restructuring cost.
Together these items reduced EPS by about $0.05 per share.
Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions was $449 million dollars compared to $774 million in last year’s fourth quarter bringing full-year cash inflow to $753 million compared to $256 million last year.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
Revenues were up 16.8% in the quarter reflecting the success of our strategy of investing in new products and complementary acquisitions.
For example at Industrial we saw an 11.5% increase in revenues reflected across all of our business as well as the impact of the technologies Dixie Chopper and HD Electric acquisitions.
Most recently in our specialized vehicles group we purchased Douglas Equipment a European-based aviation ground support business.
Douglas Equipment are largely North American truck business with an international footprint expands our truck portfolio to better serve the aviation ground support market.
On the new product front the Tools &amp; Test we introduced a number of new products during the quarter including a new line of Mini fiberTOOLS for working on fiber optic communications facilities and a new 6-ton Pistol Grip intelligent electric utility crimping tool.
Contracts we continue to win significant new automotive systems contracts around the world which we expect will support growth over the next several years.
Operating performance was also a bright spot in this Industrial in the quarter contributing to a full-year margin expansion of 40 basis points.
We expect continued margin expansion in 2015.
Moving to systems revenues were up in the quarter as we began deliveries of the TCDL Shadow V2 systems.
We also made good progress on our Canadian TAPV program having incorporated the necessary design changes and have started initial reliability testing of the vehicle.
We believe we’re on track to proceed full program testing in the second quarter with initial deliveries still planned for late this year.
At TRU Simulation and Training we signed a number of air transport simulator agreements in the quarter and announced plans for a new Cessna in Beechcraft aircraft maintenance training facility in Wichita.
In our Bell segment revenues were down as we delivered seven V-22s compared to 13 in last year’s fourth quarter reflecting a start of lower deliveries called for in the multiyear program.
We also delivered seven H1s up one unit from last year’s fourth quarter.
On the commercial side we delivered 57 aircrafts down from 75 a year ago.
Despite lower Bell volumes fourth quarter margins were up 70 basis points from last year reflecting good cost performance.
While we’ve seen a slowdown in the commercial helicopter market our commercial win rate continues to improve around the world.
For example we continued to expand our presence in China as evidenced by our success in the Zhuhai China Airshow in November where we signed customer letters of intent for 61 new helicopters.
We continue to make progress on development of our 525 Relentless program as we’re well into our safety flight testing on the aircraft rudder system in [indiscernible].
Results of those tests have been encouraging and we expect the first flight later this spring.
Development of our 505 Jet Ranger X program is also proceeding well as we conducted a successful first flight in November.
These two new platforms are expected to provide differentiated appeal with customers at both ends of our product spectrum and should create significant growth opportunities for years to come.
On the military side of Bell the V-22 reached 250 000 flight hours during the quarter.
The aircraft is performing very well for our customers achieving outstanding mission success and deployments to Afghanistan the Persian Gulf the Mediterranean Africa and the Asia-Pacific region.
The Osprey continues to demonstrate a wide range of mission capabilities and is attracting attention from customers around the world.
Most recently Japan has indicated that it has provided for the first five of its 17-unit requirement in their 2015 budget.
We’re currently working with the U.S.
government to negotiate a contract and delivery plan for this aircraft.
Moving to Textron Aviation in the quarter we delivered 55 jets down from 62 last year.
For the full-year we delivered 159 jets up from last year’s 139 jets.
We also delivered 41 King Airs in the quarter bringing post-acquisition deliveries to 113.
The integration of Beechcraft continues to grow extremely well which is evident in our cost productivity as Textron Aviation achieved full-year margins of 5.1% about 200 basis points higher than the mid-point of our initial guidance.
We’ve been actively working with our new Hawker customers this past year ensuring that they understand our commitment to support the aircraft.
During the quarter we also made progress internationally as we opened a new larger combined Hawker Beechcraft and Cessna service center our flagship European maintenance location at the Paris Le Bourget airport.
In addition we delivered the first two XLS aircraft to our Chinese joint venture at Zhuhai.
Development of our new Latitude continues to go well as we now accumulated 500 test flights generating 12 000 test hours.
Customer response to Latitude continues to be positive following its debut at NBAA.
Customers in the North America are currently flying demo flights and they’re impressed with the spacious stand-up cabin and $2 700 [indiscernible] range that Latitude offers.
We expect Latitude deliveries will begin in the second half of this year.
On the market front new jet customer interest and inquiry activity has been noticeably better than a year ago.
We’re also encouraged that available used aircraft continues to come down which is resulting in used aircraft moving fairly quickly and the stabilization of residual values especially for used aircraft with low hours.
On balance we believe our best path forward at this point is to remain conservative with respect to increasing production and to continue in our path for new product developments.
To summarize we believe we ended the year with strong EPS and cash flow performance.
And throughout the year we took actions that should position our businesses for continued growth over the next several years.
Textron systems began deliveries of the TCDL V2 system retrofit program and made a good progress in getting the Canadian TAPV program back on track.
We advanced our Ship to Shore program and began initial production activity to support first delivery plan for 2017.
We also signed additional international contracts Sensor-Fuzed Weapons that we expect will support production at current levels for 2016.
And we’re gaining traction with some of our new product platforms such as the unmanned naval mine detection system for which we won an initial U.S.
Navy contract on October.
At Industrial our double-digit top line growth this year reflects our continuing investment in new products such as the new electric Bad Boy Recoil iS hunting vehicle and specialized vehicles and the DataScout 10G Ethernet Network Analyzer at Tools &amp; Test.
Industrial growth was also the result of ongoing acquisitions which demonstrates our ability to leverage these businesses for growth and long-term shareholder value.
At Bell we continued to improve our win rate in the commercial helicopter markets based on attractiveness of our new and upgraded products our industry-leading aftermarket support and our expanding sales business around the world.
We’re also winning on the military side as we were included among the finalist to proceed with our V-280 platform for the U.S.
DOD future vertical program.
We also made good progress with our cost structure as we compared to the ramp-down in military production of V-22.
Looking to 2015 Bell top line will down overall.
But we expect commercial to grow based on what we’re seeing in the customer pipeline and market opportunities for the year.
We expect Bell to return to overall top line growth in 2016 and ‘17 with the introduction of the new 505 and 525 models.
Textron Aviation we brought the Hawker Beechcraft and Cessna brands under one roof allowing us to offer a much wider array of products and services to our customers significantly improving cost productivity.
Looking to 2015 we anticipate moderate growth driven by our strategy and the Beech acquisition.
To finish with Textron’s 2015 financial guidance we’re projecting revenues of about $14.4 billion with EPS from continuing operations in the range of $2.30 to $2.50.
Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions is expected to be in the range of $550 million to $650 million.
With that I’ll turn the call to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Segment profit in the quarter was $398 million up $91 million from the fourth quarter of 2013 on a $590 million increase in revenues.
Let’s look at how each of the segments contributed starting with Textron Aviation.
At Textron Aviation revenues were up $597 million from this period last year reflecting a $556 million impact from the Beechcraft acquisition higher volumes and favorable mix.
The segment had a profit of $130 million compared to $33 million at the Cessna segment a year ago.
This reflected improved performance including the impact of the Beechcraft acquisition and favorable volume mix and pricing.
Backlog in the segment ended the quarter at $1.4 billion approximately flat with the end of third quarter.
Moving to Bell revenues were down $304 million reflecting lower V-22 and commercial deliveries.
Segment profit decreased $32 million from the fourth quarter in 2013 primarily reflecting the lower volumes partially offset by favorable performance.
At Textron Systems revenues were up $212 million reflecting higher unmanned systems volumes and the impact of acquisitions partially offset by lower Marine and Land system volumes.
Segment profit was up $10 million reflecting the higher volumes.
Industrial revenues increased $89 million due to higher overall volumes and the impact of acquisitions partially offset by unfavorable impact from foreign exchange.
Segment profit increased $13 million reflecting favorable performance and the impact of higher volumes.
Finance segment revenues decreased $4 million and profit increased $3 million.
Non-accrual accounts ended the quarter at $81 million down $21 million from the end of the third quarter while 60 day delinquencies were $57 million down $13 million in the quarter.
Moving below the segment profit line corporate expenses were $58 million and our tax rate was 25.8%.
The fourth quarter tax rate benefitted from the U.S.
R&amp;D tax credit law passed late in the quarter as well as increased profits in the international jurisdictions with lower tax rates.
Interest expense was $40 million up from $27 million a year ago primarily reflecting debt cost related to the Beechcraft acquisition financing.
During the quarter we issued $350 million in notes and an effective rate of 3.9% and implemented an early redemption of $350 million of the existing 6.2% notes that were coming due in March of this year.
We also repurchased 545 000 of our shares at an overall cost of about $21 million.
For the full-year we repurchased about 8.9 million shares at an overall cost of about $340 million.
At the end of the year with $3.1 billion in total company net debt with gross manufacturing debt of $2.8 billion resulting in a year-end manufacturing debt to EBITDA multiple of about 2x.
The work we’ve been doing over the past several years to strengthen our businesses and our balance sheet was recognized earlier this month by S&amp;P with a credit rating upgrade to mid triple-B which is consistent with our targeted rating.
Turning now to our 2015 guidance beginning with our segments on Slide 9 at Textron Aviation we’re expecting about 9% revenue growth bringing revenues to about $5 billion reflecting our new product strategy and the additional two-and-half months of revenue from the Beechcraft acquisition.
Segment margins are expected to be in range of 6.5% to 7.5% about 200 basis points higher than 2014 at the midpoint.
This includes 13 million in the remaining Beechcraft fair value step-up adjustments for 2015.
At Bell we expect overall revenues of about $4 billion reflecting an approximate $600 million decline in military revenues partially offset by higher commercial revenues with expected margins in the range of 11% to 12%.
At systems we’re estimating revenues of about $1.7 billion approximately 5% higher than last year primarily due to growth at Marine and Land and TRU Simulation and Training.
Segment margins are expected to be in the range of 8.5% to 9.5%.
At Industrial we’re expecting solid growth in each of our businesses resulting in 8% segment revenue growth to about $3.6 billion with estimated margins in the range of 8.5% to 9%.
At Finance we are forecasting segment profit in the range of $10 million to $15 million.
Turning to Slide 10 we are estimating 2015 pension cost will be about $150 million up from $128 million for 2014.
This reflects a U.S.
plan discount rate of 4.25% 75 basis points lower than last year the new mortality tables and the impact of the Beechcraft acquisition.
However we estimate that the P&amp;L impact is relatively neutral on a year-over-year basis.
Turning to Slide 11 R&amp;D is expected to be approximately $600 million up from $556 million in 2014 representing approximately 4.2% sales.
We’re estimating CapEx will be about $475 million up from last year’s capital expenditure of $429 million reflecting our investment in new products and geographic expansion.
Moving below the segment line and looking at Slide 12 we’re projecting about $175 million for corporate expense.
2015 interest expense is estimated at $135 million reflecting the favorable rate from our fourth quarter refinancing activity and lower interest cost related to the Beechcraft acquisition financings.
We’re assuming a tax rate of about 30% and a flat share count of about 280 million shares reflecting share repurchase to offset dilution.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
So operator we can open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Sam.
Can you talk about - I guess oil prices is just something - you talked about commercial helicopter growth so I guess first piece is how is that affecting in Bell and then secondly if you can talk a little bit about how that’s impacting Caltech since I would presume you’re going to get lower commodity cost but also have a little more FX situation there.
So Sam in terms of Bell it’s sort of at the margins.
As you know we probably are less than 10% of our commercial helicopters in the oil and gas market.
Frankly that’s a number we’d like to see higher.
That’s part of the rationality of the investment in the 525 because I do think over time that will continue to be a large market segment that we would like to participate in a bigger way.
But at this point it’s a fairly small piece.
Most of our aircraft are in service in that market or still flying to a lot of the Gulf of Mexico rigs and things like that.
So I think there’s probably some softness in the exploration world but in terms of our customers operating the aircraft under contract of the existing operating rigs we haven’t seen really material change in that.
In terms of what it means from a commodity cost standpoint most of the contracts that we have in the automotive world we largely pass through increases and decreases on commodity so I don’t expect it to be a big swinger one way or the other.
Thanks.
And then just if I could follow up Bell in Aviation if I look relative to what you said revenues would look like back in October versus what they were now seemed like a shift.
Did any of that shift to 2015 or can you talk a little bit about what happened on the top line with those? So if you look at Bell certainly the commercial market was softer than we expected earlier in the year and so that accounts for the bulk of the lower revenues at Bell.
As I said earlier I do expect to see some pick-up.
There’s not a specific thing in this story [ph] that carry over from quarter to quarter but there certainly are a number of opportunities in the marketplace that we feel we’re likely to win that would help us see a slight uptake in commercial activity in 2015 versus 2014.
And then on the systems front the big impact really for us on the year was the TAPV program which moved from 2014 to ‘15.
And so we’ll start deliveries of those systems in the latter part of this year.
Thank you.
Then we’ll go to Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Scott before you said it looks like the business jet environment has turned a corner.
Looking forward how long will it probably require for you to see some decent order intake before you’d start contemplating rate increases? Rob we - obviously this is something we kind of look at on a month-to-month basis.
At this point clearly we - if the order rate did increase and things did get appreciatively stronger we could make some adjustments that would increase our production rates in the latter part of the year.
Still at this point but that’s really something we look at on a month-to-month basis based on realized orders.
So it’s certainly better as we said the amount of activity.
And the first quarter is never early in the year necessarily a strong time in terms of orders but the reality is a lot of the customer conversations and demos and activity that we saw in the latter part of last year led to good orders.
It seems to be continuing into the first part of this year so we definitely feel good about where it is versus a year ago but we’ll probably delay here in terms of making any commitments to increase any kind of production rates until we see more of those orders actually fall into the backlog.
Thanks.
And as a follow-up one of your competitors decided to pause development of one of their models.
Do you see this as specific to the model they’re working on or reflective of the broader market? Well Rob I think it’s the fact that this is a very competitive segment of the market and if you’ve got to make calls in terms of your prioritization it doesn’t surprise me that that’s the one that you would prioritize out.
Great.
Thanks.
Then we’ll go to Jason Gursky with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Scott I was wondering if you could just talk about the portfolio broadly speaking and your view on the outlook for the need to add or subtract from the portfolio and your view on the acquisition outlook and pipeline going forward? Sure.
Look that’s a very dynamic thing right? I mean we’re not - we sort of keep an eye out across all the businesses and look for opportunities that we think are deals that we can do that we can make highly accretive and bring a lot of value and good leverage into the company.
So clearly if you look back at 2014 the Beechcraft deal was obviously a sizable deal.
There’s not a lot of those kind of deals that are out there but that’s one that we looked at and said we think we can acquire that integrate it and make it be good for the customers and good for our shareholders.
And I think that that worked obviously in a smaller way in terms of the magnitude of the size of the deals.
Over the last couple of years the technologies of the world and the Sherman + Reilly’s and the acquisitions of our simulator businesses I think these are deals that have been good deals.
And they’re performing at or above our expectations and I think are bringing good value to the overall company.
So we’ll kind of keep an eye out on all fronts.
And we don’t feel like we’re under any pressure to have to go do any deal.
I mean most of our focus on a day-to-day basis with our businesses is very organically focused and around developing new products.
But if something comes along that looks like it makes sense we’ll always take a look.
Great.
Thanks.
We’ll go to Cai von Rumohr with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks so much.
So maybe you mentioned that you expect Latitude deliveries in the second half.
My recollection is you were expecting them before mid-year.
Has that slipped at all? And maybe also give us an update on your larger plane the Longitude.
Sure.
So Cai I think we’ve talked about certification that could happen here in the second quarter where I think we’re still on track for that.
The program is going very well.
There’ve been no issues technical or otherwise.
The aircraft is flying great.
We’re working our way through the test programs.
The search schedule seems to be going very well.
But getting all the Ts crossed and the Is dotted and when that happens in the quarter I think at this point we’d say that means that likely if you get a second quarter cert you’re probably going to have third quarter deliveries.
So if things go really well could we pull an aircraft or two into the quarter? That’s I guess possible.
But at this point our experience on getting through the final cert is - just getting through the paperwork process is not always easy so we’ll keep working hard.
But the program is in great shape.
It’s going as we expected and we’re really pleased with it.
So in terms of Longitude that program is ramping up pretty significantly.
Teams are actively working.
We think we know what the configuration of the aircraft is based on a lot of work with customers and where we are.
So you’ll see that really started ramping up in the latter part of last year and through all this year.
Okay.
And could you give us any more color on new products in the aviation sector? Like when is Longitude going to come and do you have any other introductions we might see in the next year? I think that we’re prepared to announce it this time.
I do think Cai that you will see a debut of the Longitude sometime in the not too distant future.
Got it okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Let’s go to Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just going back to the topic of the polls [ph] you’re keeping on Cessna production and the overall health of the business [share market].
Can you update us on whether or not lead times have extended for your customers since your October update or how far sold out you are and then what that number needs to be? I think in the past you said you wouldn’t let a customer wait nine months just trying to see how close we are to getting to that point.
Oh no it’s a tough question you’re asking.
It really does vary model by model.
You know what I mean.
Yes.
We have somewhere - again we had customers that - some would have liked probably a fourth quarter delivery that is moved out in the first part of this year because we did get that sold out point on some of those aircraft.
But generally speaking as I said look we’d like to be in that six to nine months.
Clearly that’s not where the business is right now.
But some models are - some are fairly strong in the future quarters.
And others you still have availability that’s within the quarter.
Obviously when you talk about new products like the Latitude there’s order book on that but that’s dated obviously by getting some certification in the first delivery.
So it’s -- Okay.
I’d still - as I said I’d love to see every model sitting in that six month or so timeframe.
And they’re not.
But I think the momentum in that direction certainly has improved over the past six months.
But it sounds like that hasn’t really - I mean I know it’s a pretty short period of time but it sounds like that hasn’t really extended from your third quarter update.
It has on a couple of models.
Okay.
But there are still some models that are available for sale within the quarter.
And do you have a projection for how many Latitudes you’ll deliver this year? We don’t.
Okay.
And can I ask you that same question on Bell commercial units? So we’re not putting a specific number out on the Bell commercial units.
No but I would say it would be sort of up modestly from the deliveries in 2014.
Okay.
It’s pretty much across the product line in terms different models.
Okay.
And is anything improved there from an end market perspective or did you just get a little bit easier in comparison? Or has anything changed there? No no it’s okay.
It’s a market that honestly we don’t really know what has driven a lot of the slowdown.
But people have been a little slower to commit capital.
But the deals are still being talked about right.
So it’s not like we had back in the business yet days where things really just kind of came to an absolute screeching halt.
So we’re certainly disappointed with the rate of order intake and sales in 2014.
Opportunities are out there and discussions are happening.
And I think there are still deals that are going to be done.
And a lot of those I think for whatever reason just appeared to have been delayed from ‘14.
And I certainly don’t think all of them are going to come through.
But I think they’ll - our expectation certainly is there will be more activity in ‘15 than we saw in ‘14.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
We’ll go to Sheila Kahyaoglu with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Thanks.
In terms of Textron aviation margins into 2015 just given your underlying margin rate was about 8% in the second half how do we think about mix in price and R&amp;D heading into next year? Well I think Sheila we think about price next year as probably being very slightly improved from ‘14.
Mix will probably be fairly similar.
I mean we already shifted in ‘14 to sort of higher ASP larger aircraft which we saw versus ‘13.
In terms of margin we’re expecting obviously to see good conversion on leverage.
Don’t forget we have almost a full first quarter of the Beech acquisition which was not in 2014.
So there’s almost a quarter of worth for the Beech acquisition that doesn’t bring with that kind of increased leverage in terms of volume.
But to back that out overall I think we feel pretty good about where the margins are going.
And we’ll probably see mid-20s conversion on the stuff that’s really true; volume growth in 2015 versus ‘14.
Got it.
And then just on cash flow looking into ‘15 again.
What are the working capital assumptions on that 550 to 650 guidance? And I guess what are you assuming happens to inventories at Bell and Cessna? Then just a quick follow up on that the capital allocation question asked before.
I think you had a small bolt-on in the interiors - for an interiors business in the aviation last week.
Can you talk about how you’re thinking about for ‘15 the allocation of buybacks versus additional deals? Okay.
In terms of Bell I mean we are - we’re still going to see some pressure around a buildup of 505 and 525 as we get into the latter part of the year.
So that will pressure somewhat some of our working capital on specifically at Bell.
In terms of the bolt-on deal we had a - it was a UTX business that’s been doing all the interiors for our aircrafts for some time.
It’s basically almost entirely our shop.
I mean it really - they did a little bit of work for Bombardier.
But most of the work was for Cessna and we thought we could try better productivity and better integration frankly with our manufacturing lines if it was something that we picked up.
And it’s nice that they were interested in disposing out.
So I think we came to good terms that were good for both companies and it gives us a little more control over what’s the very important part of the customer experience in terms of the interiors of the aircraft.
So it’s a relatively small deal.
But I think a good deal for us both financially as well as just making it better integrated with our overall manufacturing operations for our aircraft.
In terms of the capital allocation Sheila we’re continue to kind of focus on committing as a minimum stock buyback to prevent dilution of employee program and so we’re committed to do that.
And as you know we’ll always keep an eye out for acquisition activity.
And from a stock buyback standpoint if we think there’s optimistic points in time to the course of the year to do additional buybacks then we’ll certainly do that if we think it makes sense.
Great thanks.
Sure.
We’ll go to Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just a question on the balance sheet and the target leverage.
I mean I think Frank you had said that the rating you now have from the agency is what you’re looking for.
Where do you feel the kind of optimal leverage is? And I guess second back to Scott when you talked about looking opportunistically on buyback or M&amp;A again what size of capacity do you think you have over the balance of this year to use that leverage? Yes.
So from a leverage standpoint as I indicated we’re around the area that we’re comfortable at.
We think about it as 2x to 2.5x that EBITDA against manufacturing debt levels.
And that’s where we’ve gotten into.
So kind of we’ll - they paid down a little bit more of the debt associated with the Beechcraft acquisitions here.
But we’re still pretty comfortable with our overall debt levels.
And I think in terms of acquisition capacity it really obviously depends on the transaction.
I think we demonstrated kind of that we had capacity with the Beechcraft acquisition obviously to do something that was meaningful for the corporation to do with all debt.
And kind of bring it in drive the synergies out of it and deleverage relatively quickly some of that debt to our performance.
So it will very be deal-specific.
But we don’t feel like we are constrained relative to the types of things that we think about as being potentially available out there in the marketplace.
And we would obviously finance anything appropriately to maintain the type of leverage levels that we’re talking about in targeted rating categories.
Thanks.
And then for Scott just on Bell the guidance for 2015.
I think your guidance implies of the midpoint the sort mid-high 20s decremental margin.
Maybe you have a little bit of color on how the fixed cost base at Bell where you are of the reductions there.
And also the impact of the ERP rollout is on the margins in ‘15 and maybe further out please.
So I think if you look at the cost activities we’ve taken some pretty major restructuring over the last year and a half or so to align the business with where we expect to be particularly driven by the known volume around B22.
I think we’re largely there.
We’re always going to continue to look at cost and further cost reduction programs.
So I think in terms of what we set out to do knowing what was going on with B22 we’re there.
Now obviously we’re going to continue to watch the commercial market.
And any further softness or impact or not meeting expectations around commercial would lead us to do more on cost reduction.
So I think we’ve demonstrated that we can do what we need to do the structural cost of the business appropriately.
And if volume further adjusts then we’ll further adjust cost.
And just on the ERP what’s the effect on margins year-on-year is this year? So the ERP the impact at this point is probably largely behind us.
We did have a headwind and obviously in 2014 as a result a lot of the inventory that was built and cost that was inventoried through that process.
So at this stage in the game most of that is largely in line [ph].
The system is working.
It continues to improve and I - it was a painful process but I think we ended up in a better place.
So at this point from an accounting standpoint most of those headwinds associated with that really played itself out through 2014.
So that helps us a bit as we head into 2015.
Right.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Starting on Bell the margin was quite strong and the quarter is better than it’s been for a couple of years.
Is that - kind of the ERP kind of wearing off? I would have thought that the mix in Q4 with V-22 coming down would hurt you a little bit but just looking sequentially you had a good quarter.
Well I mean it did Joe.
And clearly the cross-reduction activity is working.
We did start to see less of a drag I suppose of the ERP activity now.
We did have somewhat prior deliveries of V-22s than we expect to see on a quarter-by-quarter basis going forward because we still had a little bit left of the original multiyear and then the last deliveries on the multiyear two.
In general I think what you saw was just strong performance by the business largely driven by the cost activities that they’ve taken over the last couple of years.
Okay.
And then on the commercial front just a push on that one more time because it does seem at odds with - in terms of the outlook for growth ops with what - that we’ve seen from you guys what we’re hearing from you and also some of your competitors.
Is this fleet bids that are out in the marketplace that give you some confidence? Is it one-off or twosies and threesies kind of small business orders? Is it U.S.
is it international? Where are you seeing a pick-up in activity? It’s sort of all of the above Joe.
I mean obviously the fleet deals can move the needle on these things when you get a quantity buy.
But it really is across the board.
There’s cases of two or three 412s here two or three 412s there which are meaningful opportunities for us.
Okay.
And then just finally on the aviation margins front a real bounce-back here obviously.
And you talked about some of the - we know some of the positives coming into 2015.
You obviously beat your guidance in 2014 by a pretty significant amount.
So if I were to pose it this way what’s going to prevent you from beating it by a couple of hundred basis points again in 2015? What are the pressures you’re seeing? What would you say? Well look largely the reason we had such an outperform on our - versus our guidance this year was that a lot of the synergies that we expected to get in the Beechcraft deal happened.
And they happened quicker than we would have had in our plans.
So we realized an awful lot of that into this year.
So there’s clearly some knock-on benefit of that as we go into 2015.
And as we’ve said there’s other projects and programs this coming year although we tend to put the cost and the benefit sort of wash [ph] in 2015.
But I think the team just - they beat because they got to the synergy levels to that run rate faster than what was in the plan.
Okay.
All right thank you.
Sure Joseph.
We’ll go to Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Please go ahead.
Mr.
Sprague your line is open.
Check your mute button.
We’ll move on to Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I was wondering with respect to R&amp;D in the slides you pointed out - this might be more of a correction for Bell - or sorry Beechcraft the $556 million full-year R&amp;D and I think if you go back last year you expected to do about $490 million.
Is the delta there Beechcraft or is it broader than that? No it’s largely driven by the - the original guidance didn’t have the Beechcraft deal in there so it’s largely driven by Beechcraft incrementals.
Okay.
And the other clarification I guess to Joe’s question maybe when you close out the multiyear on the V-22 in the quarter did you have a significant positive EAC [ph] that helped the margins at Bell? We did have an EAC that reflected part of the wind-down of the multiyear.
So -- But it puts [indiscernible] trend over the last couple of quarters? I think if you look at the total EAC adjustments in the quarter and obviously you’ll see the data for the total business that wasn’t inconsistent really with a typical quarter for us.
And then the last one.
Within Cessna the mature programs versus new programs XLS is that softness there mostly attributable to the coming of the Latitude? And what are you broadly seeing between mature and new programs in 2015 in terms of delivery mix? So I would say fairly balanced.
I mean obviously the Latitude will give us a little bit of an uptake on the new product front.
XLS is not particularly soft.
I think that’s a market if you look at those two aircrafts you’ve got a significant range difference with a Latitude of 2 700 versus an XLS at around I want to say 2 000 to 2 100.
I’m just going to go off memory here.
And clearly a very different price point.
So it’s - cabin size range all those things that generally drive differentiation between aircraft there’s a pretty big spread between an XLS and a Latitude in terms of its performance and cabin size and as a result correlation in price.
So we really don’t see the Latitude as eating into much of the XLS market segment.
All right thanks.
Sure.
Our next question is from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
I wonder if you might break out - you said the book-to-bill at aviation was about 1.
Scott I was wondering if you could break out what it would have been if we took out the defense piece of Beech as well as the turboprop so we kind of just looked at the jet business.
George we’re - the book to - all the backlog will be reported just as a single number.
But to your point there’s going to be volatility obviously from quarter to quarter depending on what’s going on in the market.
And we had T-6 orders in the quarter for instance with Mexico which you saw but we also had T-6 sell [ph] in the quarter.
So we’re not going to break that number out.
It’s just going to be a single backlog number for the aviation segment.
Okay.
And then if I looked at the incremental margin and tried to make some estimates for what it would be just to Cessna by itself Scott it’s probably around 50%.
And if I look at your guidance for ‘15 between the high and the low the incremental ranges from 21 to 33.
So to your point the midpoint is in the mid 20s.
Can you walk through kind of the drivers for the 21 to 33 next year and what doesn’t recur in this quarter with the - what looks like 50%? And I recognize part of it is I’m taking out Beech and Beech is in your numbers for next year.
Yes George I want to make sure I follow along.
When we look at leverage on kind of incremental which is how we generally look at it we’ve been kind of sitting on that - it was actually - it was pretty high from Q2 to Q3 it was a little lower from Q3 to Q4.
And we always have again that volatility we have more cost around SG&amp;A in Q4 with the NBAAs and again a lot of ramp on the R&amp;D side particularly on Longitude obviously continue flight testing on Latitude.
So we kind of look at this on a total year-over-year basis so if you look at our guidance for next year and you backed out the incrementals of the first quarter of Beechcraft which is additive I would say as opposed to leverage we still think and we’ve always said that we’re going to probably sit somewhere in that mid-20s of leverage on the volume.
And it’s pretty much across the whole product line.
It’s not particularly mix-sensitive.
Our gross margins are pretty good across the whole line of products.
So I think the midpoint of where we are looks at about a 25% leverage on that incremental volume on a year-over-year basis.
Okay thanks very much.
Okay.
Let’s go to Ron Epstein with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey Scott.
Good morning guys.
Maybe changing gears just a little bit.
Scott there’s been a bunch of press lately - not a bunch but some press lately about potential Scorpion deals with the UAE maybe even Nigeria.
I was wondering if you can give us any color broadly speaking on what’s going on with that program and international interest.
So there is still significant international interest.
We have conversations ongoing with several customers.
There’s starting to be some reasonable RFI and RFPs sort of formal activity of countries that are looking at replacing the exact kinds of aircraft that we anticipated this aircraft would address in terms of the market.
So we feel pretty good about that part of the uptake obviously in R&amp;D as we go into 2015 as we’ve had a very successful series of flight test programs through 2014 some good customer demos and sort of debuted the aircraft at Farnborough and Riyadh.
We certainly expect that stuff to continue in 2015 and we’ll be at a point now where we expect to be responding formally to some customers’ RFPs.
We are proceeding with the manufacturer of the first conforming aircraft so that we’re ready to enter into certification testing.
And so that’s why you see a little bit - part of the increase in R&amp;D from an overall company standpoint reflects our commitment to move forward on the program.
Okay great.
And then maybe just one more broad one on the biz jet market.
Given some of the troubles that your competitor to the north has had you’ve seen the Lear 85 get paused whatever that means so that’s I guess out of the market for a while.
Have you seen much irrational competition given that there’s some discussion that Bombardier needs to generate cash? Well look I mean our sales force will always tell you it’s always the other guy that’s being irrational.
Of course I mean this is just the nature of selling but yes we think we’ve seen some top [ph] pricing in some places.
But frankly over the last year or so I would say there’s been kind of a stabilization.
So each of the products that’s out there in the marketplace has kind of achieved a price point and I think that’s been pretty stable over the last year or so.
We’d like to see higher obviously but it’s a competitive marketplace.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Sure.
And our final question will come from Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Scott I just want to follow up on the Citation XLS again one more time.
I mean deliveries went down pretty sharply this year especially the fourth quarter.
Did that surprise you I guess is my question? And just directionally into 2015 are we at kind of a new lower level now or maybe is China going to help pick that up? Well I mean we saw the first couple of XLSs into China obviously.
I do think overall our year in ‘14 was skewed towards the new products like the new Sovereign Plus being out there the X-Plus being out there and so I think that had clearly some influence to the market.
But I would expect XLS Plus - again the demand we see would - it should be pretty stable.
Okay.
And then just a last one.
Could you give a sense of what sense the aftermarket grew in 2014 and 2015 expectations? Our aftermarket businesses are growing around mid single-digits and I would expect that that’s where they’ll continue to be.
Okay thank you.
Sure.
Okay ladies and gentlemen thank you for joining us.
And Gail if you’ll share the replay information we’d appreciate that.
Good day.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference is being made available for replay after 10 am Eastern time today through April 27<sup>th</sup> at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T replay system at any time by dialing 800-475-6701 and entering the access code 307264.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
Again those numbers are 800-475-6701 international participants dial 320-365-3844.
Enter the access code 307264.
That does conclude your conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and using AT&amp;T Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Textron First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
At this time I would now like to turn the conference over to our host the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Doug Wilburne.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Stan and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Textron's revenues in the quarter were $3.1 billion up $226 million from last year's first quarter.
Income from continuing operations was $0.46 per share up $0.31 from the first quarter of 2014.
Textron Aviation operating results included a $5 million reduction to segment profit from fair value step-up adjustments to acquire Beechcraft inventories sold during the quarter.
Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions of $20 million was a $125 million use of cash compared to $111 million use of cash in last year's first quarter.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
Revenues were up nearly 8% in the quarter reflecting the success of our strategy of investing in new products and acquisitions.
We achieved this increase in topline of Textron despite an expected decrease in revenues at Bell.
Decline in revenues at Bell was primarily due to lower volumes in our V-22 program where we delivered 6 V-22s down from 8 aircraft a year ago.
We also delivered 4 H-1 aircraft down from 5 units in last year's first quarter.
So it was just timing on the H-1s as we still expect to deliver about 25 units for the full year.
On the commercial side we delivered 35 aircraft up from 34 a year ago where our mix was unfavorable as strength in the wide end of the market was offset by softness in the medium segment with no 412 deliveries in the quarter.
Based on the continued softness in the medium segment of the market we are adjusting production levels and taking additional cost actions to allow Bell to perform within its targeted 2015 segment margin range of 11% to 12%.
We still expect the commercial deliveries will be up this year but probably only modestly so given the current demand environment.
While the medium segment remains challenging our win rate continues to be favorable and we had an especially good success at Heli-Expo where we signed 238 orders in production aircraft including a 200 deal order from Air Methods for our new 407 GXP model.
At the show we also signed 29 letters of intent for the 525 Relentless and 24 for the 505 Jet Ranger X.
In addition to HAI orders we received an order for seven 412s from the Canadian Coast Guard which we expect begin delivering in 2016 and announced two orders totaling 31 407s from customers in the Middle East and Mexico reflecting success in international markets.
We also celebrated opening of two new regional sales and service offices in Tokyo and Abu Dhabi to better serve our customers in those regions.
On the new product front we continue to make progress on our safety of flight testing with the 525 Relentless test aircraft and are expecting first flight soon.
Development of our 505 Jet Ranger X program is also proceeding well with the second flight test aircraft now in the air.
We are also in our promising developments on the military side of Bell in the quarter.
First the V-22 was included in the U.S.
presidential budget for the Navy carrier on-board delivery mission which calls for 44 aircraft.
This will provide a solid basis for a third multi-year contract beginning in the 2020 time frame.
The Japanese V-22 program continues to move forward as we were in country last month meeting with the customer and expect contract signature this summer.
Deliveries could begin in late 2018.
We are also seeing foreign opportunities take form for the H-1s as the U.S.
State Department announced its approval of potential sale of 15 AH-1Z Vipers to Pakistan.
So while we continue to see lingering weakness in the medium helicopter segment we believe the growth outlook at Bell over the next several years remains strong driven by our expanded global commercial sales efforts recent commercial product upgrades new commercial products on the way and foreign military opportunities for both the V-22 and the H-1.
Moving to systems as expected revenues were also down in the quarter primarily driven by lower vehicle deliveries.
However we are making good progress in our Canadian TAPV program and believe we are still on track for initial deliveries in the fourth quarter.
We are also working on a number of additional foreign opportunities as we contribute to fourth quarter vehicle delivers.
At Textron's Marine and Land Systems we were awarded an $84 million contract for two additional Ship-to-Shore Connector units to be delivered in 2019 with the original two units scheduled to go offline in 2017 and 2018.
Moving down to Land Systems we were awarded a contract for 10 additional TCDL V2 Shadow retrofit system as well as a number of additional contract for our fee per service platform.
At TRU Simulation and Training last month we unveiled our Bell V-280 simulator at the Army Aviation Mission Solutions Summit giving you army leadership and users tangible hands on experience of this revolutionary capabilities of the new platform.
Moving to industrial we saw a 9.4% increase in revenues after a 7.7% negative impact from foreign exchange reflecting increase volume in our automotive markets the success of new product programs and the impact of the TUG Douglas Equipment and Dixie Chopper acquisitions.
At Jacobsen we introduced our new trucks to HD heavy duty utility vehicle for the choice of gas or diesel engine and over 3500 pounds of payload for most powerful utility vehicle available in this class and provides compelling new product in the Jacob portfolio.
In the Tools &amp; Test business Sherman + Reilly introduced a number of new products including a revolution series P-1400 the first of its kind in 14 000 pound electric power for lines and a new line of termination tools for the power line industry.
Operating results were also by as far industrial in the quarter as the higher volumes contributed to a year-over-year margin increase of 110 basis points.
Moving to Textron Aviation in the quarter we delivered 30 free jets compared to 35 last year as well as 25 King Air.
Margins in the aviation segment continue to improve reflecting our expanded scale and efficiency improvements.
On the service front aviation during the quarter we extended our ProAdvantage Jet aftermarket support programs to Hawker customers plus added to our King Air service footprint with certifications in Sacramento and Paris.
Development on our new Latitude remains on pace for FA certification in the second quarter as the flight test program is now complete and we should be on track for Latitude deliveries in the third quarter.
The availability of used Citations continues to come down with used aircraft under 10 years old declining to 1.6% of the active fleet.
Used aircraft are continuing to move fairly quickly and we've also seen evidence of improving residual values especially for aircraft at low hours.
New jet demand is usually seasonally lighter in the first quarter the customer interest and inquiry activity was relatively healthy and consistent with our outlook for the year.
To sum up at this point in the year we’re confirming our full year Textron guidance for both earnings and cash flow as we expected stronger results at Textron aviation and industrial will offset the lower volume at Bell.
With that I will turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Segment profit in the quarter was $259 million up $40 million from the first quarter 2014 on a $226 million increase in revenues.
Let's look at how each of the segments contributed starting with Textron Aviation.
At Textron Aviations revenues were up $266 million from this period last year primarily reflecting the impact from the Beechcraft acquisition.
The segment had a profit of $67 million compared to $14 million a year ago.
This was driven by improved performance reflecting the impact of the Beechcraft acquisition and higher overall volumes.
Backlog in the segment ended the quarter at $1.3 billion $99 million lower than at the end of the fourth quarter.
Moving to Bell revenues were down $60 million primarily reflecting lower V-22 deliveries.
Segment profit decreased $20 million from the first quarter in 2014 primarily reflecting lower military volume and an unfavorable mix of commercial aircraft deliveries in the quarter.
At Textron Systems revenues were down $48 million primarily due to lower Marine and Land Systems volumes.
Segment profit was down $11 million reflecting the lower volumes.
Industrial revenues increased $75 million due to higher overall volumes and the impact of acquisitions partially offset by a $62 million unfavorable impact from foreign exchange.
Segment profit increased $16 million reflecting the higher volumes.
Finance segment revenues decreased $7 million and profit increased $2 million.
Moving below the segment profit line corporate expenses were $42 million and our tax rate was 30.4%.
Interest expense was $33 million down $2 million from the first quarter of 2014.
To wrap up with guidance we estimate that our announced cost reduction activities at Bell will result in pre-tax charges in the range of $40 million to $50 million which will be recorded as part of segment expenses.
Inclusive of the charges related cost savings and lower expected revenues we still expect full year margins at Bell will be in the 11% to 12% range.
From a total Textron perspective stronger results at Textron Aviation and industrial are expected to offset lower volume at Bell.
Therefore we are confirming expected full year EPS from continuing operations of $2.30 to $2.50 of share and cash flow from continuing operations of the manufacturing group before pension contributions of 550 million to 650 million.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
So Dan we can open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Frank just a clarification or maybe if you could give us a little more detail on the charges for the cost actions at Bell obviously $40 million $50 million if you still think you're going to come in within the prior range I was just wondering if there was something other than run rate savings there would apply a lot of savings? Is there something else as an upper that's helping you overcome that $40 million $50 million or am I missing something? No its really run rate savings in the way that then gets rolled through the EAC's from a cost reduction standpoint.
So obviously we will have headcount savings we will have rate savings we are doing other things on the discretionary side as well.
And when you look at those savings from a program accounting standpoint as well as the cost it will roll through such that we don’t expect any big kind of impact in any particular quarter and what we should see is the generally kind of the same type of seasonality from a quarterly standpoint as we've seen Bell over the past couple of years with improving margins as we go through the year in a higher volumes but it will get spread out over that period of time.
Can you quantify how much of that is the EAC keum catches that is you'll get out of that for this year? Well its not really kind of keum catch its just as we - there will be a little bit of keum catch but it's mostly as we deliver product will have lower cost embedded in those products.
We’re on a unit to delivery basis and so it rolls through as we deliver units.
Okay great.
Then just one other one.
With respect to the market softness you talked about Scott the -- I wondered if there is any after-market service support impact in Bell related to the weakness -- it's probably related to lower usage that you might be seeing in Bell as well? We’re trying to keep an eye on that and have some concern about but in the quarter our aftermarket activity was fine and we continue to see order activity.
So utilization still seems to be okay I think we really seen is more people just being a little nervous about investing the new CapEx and putting a new aircraft and to replace a older aircraft but at least today utilization and aftermarket seems to be fine.
All right.
Thank you gentlemen.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sheila Kahyauglu from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
Scott how should we think about the progression of the backlog within Aviation? When can we start to see that move up a bit? Well I think Sheila the thing is most likely to start impact our backlog here in the balance of the year is getting through certification on Latitude which as I said I think we’re getting pretty close we done the flight test we're done with all the ground test activities or at this point we’re really just into the paperwork exercises getting through that.
So as a result we now have a couple of aircraft that we've recently been able to put out we really dedicated to customer demo activities those aircraft are pretty booked up.
So we think there is a lot demand up there for the aircraft a lot of customer interest and now that we can really dedicate those assets to getting out there and doing customer demos and we would expect to see those orders start to finalize.
Okay.
Are you sold out for any particular models throughout this year? It's pretty tight on a couple but if you really want to one we could probably work with you somewhere.
I'll ask Doug for a favor.
Then I guess on underlying margins within Aviation if we compare the first half of last year versus the quarter about 200 basis points of underlying improvement excluding the PP&amp;A.
Should we expect that kind of improvement as we progress throughout the year or could you attribute that to pricing? Was it Beech? Was it productivity? Maybe if you could just elaborate a bit there? I think that’s probably going to be typical for the year.
I think the volumes we expect to be online with what we’re expecting from the beginning of the year we got a slide uptick we think on a year-over-year basis on the King Air which we are doing well.
So I think the trajectory on is going to track a couple hundred basis points better.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
Scott I was wondering on the orders if you could just go out and talk a little bit about where the strength is? US versus international are you seeing any impact negatively internationally because of the dollar so a little more color on that if you could? I think the dollar is a problem George and in some parts of world obviously because of the - I mean the dollars has strengthened so much and obviously in some markets particularly Eastern Europe and Russia where you had a lot of devaluation and similarly in South America there is just great a lot of problem.
But I would say in general right now on the jet side of things the market is very driven by the North American marketplace probably something around two-thirds to 80 20 and interestingly enough its almost exactly inverted if you looked at King Air's.
So the strength of the turboprop market has been more international the U.S.
market still good there has been more demand internationally.
So total portfolio it's going to balancing out a bit but definitely on the jet business its much more North American centric and King Air more international.
Then in Bell on the commercial is the weakness would you say totally due to the oil and gas market or is there something else going on? Well I think its mostly related to that George and certainly part of its is direct right.
So I mean if you’re talking about customers whose mission is flying specifically oil and gas missions out the rigs clearly that market is very soft right now given the price of oil.
But I think for us a bigger knock on effect of that is that historically we see a lot of sales a lot of our aircraft particularly 412s in emergency medical services and CSAR and a lot of sort of quasi-military government operations and a lot of those countries that have very strong oil economies are seeing a lot of CapEx in their budget.
So I think there is a piece of it that is absolutely directly oil and gas but I think part its – been a bigger issue for us is just a lot of our customer our oil and gas natural resource driven economies and they're soft right now.
Okay.
One quick last one for Frank what was the aftermarket growth at Aviation? It was mid single digits and kind of consistent with what we’ve been seeing and expect to continue to see.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Can you talk a little bit more about industrial.
Just it looks like sales and margins are certainly running ahead.
I know you mentioned auto strength but where is the higher volume? Is it the specialty vehicles business like what is it that's driving things this year? Probably on a absolute dollar basis the biggest increase is in the automotive side.
We certainly seeing good auto demand but we've also seen very strong earns from the vehicle business that's such organically the business is growing nicely but then of course we also have technologies and the acquisition side for ground support equipment that acquisition is performing extremely well for us.
We're seeing great topline and great margin delivery out of that as well.
So it’s kind of - I’d say the good news is it's pretty broad.
The organic growth of the businesses in product lines that we were in has been very solid and the acquisitions we've done on that base are also performing very well.
Okay.
Then just a question on the finance slide the 60-plus-day delinquencies why did those increase sequentially? I know it's not large dollars but it's certainly a large percentage change? Yes that's true.
And look we had a couple of customer accounts that moved into that 60 day window and we have a little bit of loss small numbers now right.
So if 412 aircrafts become a problem we can swing that percentage by a pretty good chunk even though it might be two airplanes and $20 million makes a big difference from a percent basis.
So I don’t think there is any fundamental underlying change there.
I mean clearly some customers internationally because of some of the issues around U.S.
dollar and currency and what not those payments have got little expensive.
And so obviously we’ll work through that and in general I think we’ll be fine.
Okay.
Last question just on the $600 million in free cash this year I know you've talked about at a minimum buying back enough stock to offset the employee programs.
One is how much buyback is required to do that? Then what would it take for you to do more? You don't really have any other debt maturing so I'm just trying to think about where else does it go? Yes.
We will buyback to offset the programs it's about 3 million shares or so.
And as we talked about we will - obviously we continue to look at acquisition opportunities and we have kind of - have had a steady stream with those.
And we have expected we will pay down a little bit more of the bank debt that we took on as it related to the Beechcraft acquisition and then we’ve said kind of any excess capital after that we would look to continue again to return to shareholders through share repurchase activity.
But the target from the share repurchase standpoint is to offset the employee dilution number.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Just a question around any change in the competitive landscape.
In Aviation and in Sikorsky you obviously have some competitors based in countries where the dollar has strengthened considerably against their local base so how does -- has that changed anything yet you're seeing commercially? Also there are obviously some idiosyncratic issues at a couple of rivals of yours right now.
I just wondered if you'd seen any change from that as well? I mean the dollar is not helpful for sure from a competitiveness standpoint and I think that some of our European competitors do get an advantage out of that.
Of course they also have a fair bit of those supply chain that is dollar denominated so it’s not of a disadvantage as it could be.
But when we look at deals in Europe for instance right now it does make it more challenging but again that's just the nature of a competitive market these things swing around.
I think if you look at Latin America and Eastern Europe Russia the currency devaluation makes it a challenge for both dollar and euro denominated business just because of the currency devaluation.
But either anyway I think I would not say that it has markedly changed what’s going on it makes it certainly tougher in Europe but I mean I think we’re still winning and feel really good about where we are from a share perspective.
When you look at deals in Asia we’re competitive and we are winning.
So I think even though the helicopter market in particular we see as being pretty soft I’d say that we feel very good about our order rate this year in terms of share I think we’re doing quite well.
That's very helpful.
Then my second question is just on the Systems the revenues were weak but it sounded like very much in line with your planning assumption.
It doesn't sound like your full-year view has changed on that segment so I just wondered if you could confirm that? Also any color at all on the linearity of the sales progression? Is it going to be a very very Q4-loaded year at Systems because of the TAP 3 delivery schedule or do we start to see things improve a bit by mid year? Well I think you will see things improve a bit by mid-year Julian but absolutely our expectations and where we think it’s going will be very back end loaded and that really primarily is driven by the vehicle program.
So we clearly expect and we think we're on track to have a pretty big fourth quarter on the vehicle side of the business.
Great.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr from Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
Give us a little more color on demand at Aviation? You say customer demand is quote/unquote healthy and yet 0.85 book-to-bill hardly looks like healthy.
How was it at Cessna versus legacy Beech? How did it roll out sequentially since we've heard that January and February were very weak and March improved? Well I think the normal seasonality is sort of demand is inline with our expectations I guess what I would say Cai.
The early first quarter is always very soft from an order intake perspective.
And I think that's what we saw for the most part this year.
On a seasonal basis it's performing exactly as we would have expected I think we probably said in terms of customer activity and what not as strong as we've seen in a while in Q1.
And we're pretty happy with how things were progressing.
Obviously as I said earlier I think the real demand driver for us in terms of any kind of backlog filled would be around Latitude as that thing goes through it’s certification process.
So even though the customer environment is considerably better than it has been it is still sort of a full business people are in conversations and as they get close to when they want to take deliveries that's when they put their deposit down and sign up.
So as we said we’d love to be out in three to six months and we certainly have a couple of models where it's out in more in that range but generally speaking it’s still more of a full business.
But with a lot more customers are sort of in the queue and a lot more conversations going around to yield what we need to see in terms of deliveries and so frankly we feel pretty comfortable with that.
Given that Cessna depends on the US where the economy is improving somewhat and Beech depends on the foreign market where there's less evidence of that could you contrast demand between those two sectors? Cai they really been pretty similar.
I think if you look at how deals progress the number of customers that we are in conversations when they actually placed their orders and take deliveries as you point out it is more international on the King Air side and domestic on the Jet side but still a very similar prospecting selling order taking selling process for both platforms.
Okay.
Then two quick ones on Bell.
You said commercial up a bit.
Would that include the 412? Secondly if you're going to have $40 million to $50 million of pretax charges how much would the run rate savings be against that? So in terms of the unit deliveries we still think that will be up slightly over a year ago primarily driven by higher volumes on 407s and 429s offset by probably slightly lower volumes on 412 versus last year which is why we come back to the mix issues what prefers the margins out of the spring.
So we're still feeling reasonably good about volumes on the lights but clearly not so on the mediums.
In terms of the cost and that roll through I mean I would say most of the cost is related to severances and reductions of people and so generally speaking if you forget program accounting and inventory and all that sort of stuff you generally expect that those costs will be covered in sort of a 9-month window obviously how you recognize that see through the P&amp;L is going to be more function of the program accounting and EACs and how that comes.
So Frank said you will see not a whole lot of impact on a quarter-to-quarter basis through the balance of the year because while we will take the cost source of restructuring that will manifest itself in program accounting where you won’t see much difference in terms of the net impact through the balance of this year and obviously as you go out in time you would start to see positive benefit there.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski from Drexel Hamilton.
Please go ahead.
Scott I think you mentioned secondhand pricing in used jets in your opening remarks being maybe modestly improved.
Can you tell us is the improvement rolling through to meet pricing on some of the legacy models or is that some kind of a flash environment and you just get a pricing power on the brand-new models? Both we’ve seen pricing fairly stable on the new models we’ve seen beginning of some uptick of residual values in the used aircraft as you see in Vrefs and the blue books which is encouraging.
I don’t know that there is a direct correlation frankly to saying okay the prices up on the used and therefore it translates directly to price on the new.
It does help us in terms of customer's that wants to trade in their old aircraft or sell their old aircraft and step up into new aircraft.
In terms of that gap and value between what they know that they can get for their used aircrafts and how much additional capital they would want to put into buy new airplanes.
So as we see those residual values starting to rebound I think it definitely bodes well for demand on the new aircraft side.
Okay.
Understood.
Then just wanted to follow up.
I don't know how widespread this was but I saw at least one article during the quarter that talks about a lot of nervousness on the TAPV program in Canada just on the redesign.
Can you tell us when is the redesign going to be done and fully tested? How thorough is this such that it could eliminate the risk in the program? The redesign is complete and we have had initial vehicles with the redesign fully incorporated into them and all going through the test environment so we’re as we were doing the redesign these things were all fairly well isolated to during suspension system which basically just we said to beef it up the severity of the conditions of the test were frankly beyond anything that we’ve experienced before.
We have a lot of these vehicles out there obviously of various different types and we’ve never had issues or problems with any of those components.
But the severity of the testing frankly pushed some of these things literally break some of these steering numbers.
So the redesign was in essence just beefing up those individual components most of which are available and used in some larger vehicles interestingly enough and in some cases there were actually cheaper than the lighter version because they are manufactured in high volumes.
And so we have been sort of testing each of these new components as we could get our hands on them and those have gone well as I said we now have couple of vehicles out there that are completely the new design configuration with all of the new configuration components.
And the testing so far is going great so it is an endurance test right so you have to get through that phase which will take us another couple of months before we’re comfortable enough to say we are ready to go into the formal customer testing but so far the design is complete and initial testing results are very promising.
Okay.
That feedback I would add that article fits that one that I am thinking of I think if you read it closely lot of the information and quotes in that article are really from last year it’s really not current data.
It was quite dated and this customer has been terrific to work with I think everybody has had their head around same thing and want to make sure we went back to the process so it’s test was successful and the sort of the tone in the article is pretty dated.
Okay.
I appreciate you guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
Scott are you surprised that the legacy not new products Cessna demand environment is not getting better faster.
Because I guess it's been a few quarters since you first cited stabilization you keep giving us the inventory as a percentage of fleet number for you and it's improved a lot and I don't even know if that could go any lower.
Is there just too much total market used inventory so you're still competing with everyone else's used inventory? Or is it just a long-cycle business and it takes time to get escape velocity or is this market just at a structurally new lower demand level for a while? No I think that I mean the numbers I should say are down in terms of the used available it’s kind of hard to imagine they could go much lower frankly they are certain well below historical norms.
The only thing I would say is that they still have probably a relatively higher spread between what the values are for those used aircraft as opposed to new aircraft and I think that’s still is a drag on some of our customers because trade in premium right to say if I go from the used to the new how much cash flow I have to kick in to do that is higher than it’s historically been.
And so I still think the every placement cycle people will drag that out just given that that value gap if you were but the aircraft still keep getting older and they’re using more and I think have this longer timeline in terms of how many years older aircraft before they trade in.
And I think that is the primary dynamics still driving the marketplace that’s what I think we have been talking out for couple of years really about the percentage coming down and coming down and coming down the past quarter so is really the first time we are starting to see that residual value come up.
So I think that actually is more important and just that percentage and frankly we’ve been surprised that with such a low inventory used aircraft you think from a supply demand standpoint you would start to see pricing come up.
And at least for final you will see that okay we have been surprised frankly probably the last year as that number really started to drop that you didn’t see a corresponding residual value increase and like you said finally we’re starting to see that which is encouraging.
And I think that’s what is driving that kind of demand environment.
On the upgrading topic is there also an issue with length of time the jet is with the first owner where in prior cycles because of the maintenance warranty being five years you were getting a ton of upgrading in years four and five? Now folks are extending that because obviously a plane can be used substantially longer and once you go past the roll off of the maintenance warranty and you do that first major check you then have signed up for keeping the airplane for a lot longer until you get to the next major check.
Is that overall time an issue? Well I think the time is clearly being extended and what you’re seeing is more customers get to the end of that warranty period were historically would have said okay I am going to go ahead and trade in but again you back to that what the step up cost what is that premium to go from that five rolled aircraft to brand new aircraft and instead you’re seeing people that are sticking with it putting part programs and we do provide obviously for customers and always have for second customers the ability to in essence extend warranties and pay to sort of protect themselves from those cost which is a good business for us.
So this is I think this all comes back in order to basic dynamic of all right five years whether it would be coming of warranty whether it is how many hours whether it is just going to larger lift it’s extending that period because that residual value is just substantially lower than it historically has been.
Got it.
Then just lastly on the margin for the overall aviation segment I mean you have an outstanding margin forecast for the year could you possibly update us on that? Just because it looks like with the very good first-quarter performance one can get substantially higher than that range you have there just even simply using a 20% sequential incremental margin through the rest of the year.
Any more color on where you expect the full year to land? No formal update all as I said and as I think Frank referenced I think will at least feel like given the demand environment and the performance in the business in total and I mean we’re still early in the year obviously right but I mean our perspective on the market and certainly our perspective on how the team is executing and delivering on cost and product programs will probably be towards the high side of that number.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Frank or Scott I think you alluded to the service extension to offer customers.
I was curious if you'd talk about the level of uptick you're seeing on that extension of your service program? Also one year post the Hawker acquisition can you comment on the level of cross totalization you've had in bringing customers over to the Cessna lineup? Any metrics you have against that to support it? Well we have a dedicated team frankly that this is what they do for living is reaching out to our Hawker customers part of what we just talked about around our ProAdvantage system being able to go out to those customers and be able to put them on the same kind of maintenance and service programs that we currently have today for our citation customers.
And that program and the needs of those customers is what kind of droves that creation of that program based on interactions that our dedicated Hawker team has had with those customers.
In terms of conversion that’s also something we look at and are working on and we certainly have had.
Some of those and I would expect frankly when you talk to a lot of Hawker customers many of whom are in Hawker 900s and 850 things like that these are cabin sizes and mission that did quite well to where we are talking about going with Latitude and ultimately longitude.
So I think most of that conversion will start becoming more material as we have a Latitude and then eventually launched at the marketplace.
Okay.
Then a clarification.
From a sales perspective it sounds like Bell may be looking for $4 billion roughly at the start of the year and maybe it's a few hundred million lighter than that is that about the right thinking? That's probably right.
Okay.
All right great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Johnny Wright from Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
About the restructuring points again you guys saw a lot of money there in the last 12 to 18 months taking costs out.
How confident are you that there's another $40 million to $50 million to keep you in that guidance range? Where are the new areas you're focusing on that you haven't looked before? You're right we’ve gone through a number restructuring as frankly over the last couple of years in anticipation of the V-22 volumes coming down.
I think all this really changed here is that while we were undertaking to try to make sure we had a cost structure that supported that we have seen the soft on the commercial side.
So I don’t know if there is any particularly different strategy here obviously we’re looking very much at structure and looking at organization structure to try in more efficient ways to operate given that it’s a small business in terms of its revenue in topline.
So it's primarily around structure and layers overhead.
We are not impacting our critical programs so the investments in 525 and 505 and V-280 which are significant those are continuing full speed ahead.
So it’s never an easy go process to go through obviously but we’re working very hard to make sure that the cost come out in places that are discretionary or other overhead and indirect burden as oppose to effecting how we manufacture and deliver what we need to and make sure that we continue to make kind of progress on our new product programs.
Okay.
Thanks.
Can you just provide an update on the Scorpion? Where we are at terms of timing for first orders maybe just a number of customers you're in conversation with at this point? Well there is a number of customers in conversation right now.
I would say that the number of customers who we are talking to is probably increasing at this point.
I wouldn’t hassle to guess a first order date at this stage of the game but I think we have a lot of good customer conversations going on like program is continuing we’re in the process of completing the design modifications that we wanted to make coming out of the original flight test demo program and are in the process of the build cycle for what will lead to the first confirming aircraft.
So that’s kind of where we are in the program.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Jeff.
I think you've covered a lot of ground here.
I guess a couple things.
On Latitude can you give us the sense of to what degree you do have some orders in hand? Obviously you're indicating that once you think you've got final cert it picks up but any color you can provide there? So we do have a number of orders for the Latitude Jeff.
I think we’re in pretty good place in terms of initial delivery commitments customers that are waiting for us to get through certainly begin the delivery process.
But there are still some slots obviously to go for the year but as I said I think we have a very robust level of customer interest and a bunch of folks that are waiting the demo and fly the aircraft at that point make there decision on order.
So having now finish the flight test program or have a couple aircraft flying around the country fully configured for customer interiors its pretty booked up.
So I think there is a lot of interest a lot of customers but they all want to they want to fly the aircraft we obviously done a number of customer demos we had in aircraft that we have there for while doing demos and that generated more activity and I think we are at that point now in the program where that pace will increase.
Then just taking that a step further you had this mix down in Q1 and it's obviously a low-volume quarter.
I understand the Latitude mission is obviously different Sovereign and XLS the capabilities are different but is there some peripheral cannibalization of those product lines you think on anticipation of Latitude? The only thing I can figure out Jeff is that from a mix standpoint last year in Q1 we've just gotten the Sovereign plus certification in the very very end of 2013.
So we had a lot of Sovereign deliveries in first quarter of 2014.
So I think we had good Sovereign deliveries in the first quarter of this year but not something that would reflected - sort so that pent-up demand given the late certification of Sovereign a year ago.
Sure that makes sense.
One last one.
Just back on Bell you hit it a couple times here in the Q&amp; A.
It sounds like on the restructuring you're telling us that effectively all or most of that $40 million to $50 million gets recovered so you're close to net-net neutral on cost versus benefit on restructuring.
A is that correct? Then B if I just think about that being a wash I'm still struggling a little bit with getting from 9% and change in Q1 to 11% to 12% for the year.
Obviously there's some seasonal volume lift but is there anything else in the mix or anything that really supports your confidence in that range? There is.
So first of all your assumption is correct with respect to the discussion around the incurring of the restructuring charges and what that does on sort of a net basis through the balance of the year.
Okay so that’s more or less a wash.
In terms of sort of how we think about quarterly progression of margins generally speaking as we work through the year at Bell we do see increased volumes and we do see more favorable mix.
So in the first quarter is that we had zero 412s.
So we would expect the quarterly progression of margin rate given that the restructuring and the balance sort of that net out you will sort of the normal incremental improvements in margin rate through the course of the year.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question does come from the line of David Strauss from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning David.
Scott could you talk about what you're seeing in terms of utilization on your own fleet that's out there in service? Obviously we can see the FAA data but I just wanted to get a sense of what you're seeing in terms of the utilization on your own fleet as it comes in for service? Does that -- are you seeing a pickup there? It looks like the FAA did.
It picked up earlier in the year but now has fallen back.
Thanks.
David I guess I don't have that around the supplementary forms here.
We usually keep track of the average flight hours and then I don’t know if I have that in front of me.
Usually what the FA is reporting is take-off and landings and we usually look at the average daily utilization.
So there hasn't been a huge change in that frankly I mean it's sort of in the realms.
Do you think that's the missing piece in all of this? I know we've talked about used inventories and used pricing but do you think it's really possible that we can have much of a recovery before we see a pick up in average daily utilization? I don't know that there's a huge correlation from the ADU to the new aircraft sale.
I really think that is more a basis of residual values versus new aircraft sale.
We look at the ADUs more as a function of service activity and how much activity we’re going to through see to the service centers.
And again that’s been relatively stable with sort of its get older and it’s all base get bigger that's what's been driving our guidance around sort of that mid single-digit growth and that's where we continue to see even though we had relatively stable ADU now for quite sometime.
Is that ADU number still well below what you guys were seeing prior to the financial crisis? Sure yes if you went back and you looked at it dropped off at the end of the 2008 beginning of 2009 in the sort of the 0.67 0.65 0.64 I mean it's been pretty flat for several years now.
Right.
Okay thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
It's Jon Raviv on for Jason.
Question back on Bell.
I was just wondering is there more to cut perhaps if this oil market weakness continues? Related to that is do you have any visibility on 412 deliveries this year? My understanding is that this is usually a spot market for helicopters that is.
Then if the market does come back do you have to hire back up or does this restructuring suggest higher structural margins going forward when things improve maybe next year or the year after? So look our intent you never like to go through this with the organization our intent here is that we would do this and that positions us to go through what we think is a fairly lean this year around that segment of the market and then well in the next year.
And then of course we have things like 505 by 525 new things that are kicking in and look we've also taken some orders some of the 412s can be a bit of a spot market aircraft here there but often there are also fleet buys right.
So when you look at the Canadian deal for instance that's seven 412s.
But those deliveries won’t start until sometime next year into 2017.
I think there is some other opportunities out there around 412s that are going to be similar.
So there is customer activity going on and some of them are fleet buys but they’re going to be from a timing perspective they will be out there.
Now in terms of the ability to hire back if we something on the production line obviously we know how to modulate their production line and those folks tend to be on recall and we can bring people back even if we need to do that to increase the production volumes.
Clearly on the salary side we are trying to try to make it a restructuring of just how we organize and run the business.
So that wouldn't necessarily be a volume related action later on.
But certainly on the production side we have the ability to stay our production capacity up and down based on future volumes.
Great.
Thanks.
Then just following up on cash deployment.
How would you characterize your M&amp;A appetite at this point given where things are and especially as a relatively sizeable potential helicopter asset could come to market? I would say that on - generally speaking on the M&amp;A side the way we think about it is more along the lines of a lot of the deals we’ve done with TUG and ground support equipment with our simulation businesses with the Sherman and Reilly's that sort of the general scope of what we look at transactions that are kind of in that size that are very complementary or bolt-on to our existing businesses.
With respect to sort of the reference you're making in helicopter industry I mean I think there is probably too much to say about that I mean it’s a process that’s largely driven by that company who is been pretty public about type that they’re doing something and I’m sure we’ll all see what they’re going to do on their timeline which I think they'll describe as being sometime mid-year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Scott just maybe backing up on the end of that last question it seems like there's potential to do all kinds of M&amp;A going forward.
I mean there might be some other properties in the market even one in Wichita.
Can you just remind us broadly what your thinking is about doing M&amp;A at this point given the asset base that you already have? Well Ron we're quite open to M&amp;A.
I mean we’ve done a fair bit of activity here over the last few years.
We’ve been generally speaking very happy with the results I mean they’ve been very accretive to the company.
We’ve been happy with what they’ve done in terms of strengthening us in the marketplace.
And clearly that range is from the Beechcraft's or the world which for us is a very large deal.
But we’re really happy with how that’s going both tactically and around cost and strategically where it positions the company going forward.
And as I said we had a bunch of significantly smaller deals that we think have done really good things for our portfolio they have helped to strengthen the businesses that we have they have put us into some exciting new spaces that are very complementary like the simulation side of things we strengthened our utility side of our Tool &amp; Test business.
The TUG stuff and ground support as I said earlier has gone really really well.
We think that’s a great space for us to be in.
And it’s performed very well.
So we’re sort of open for business for that respect but there are things obviously that have to make a lot of sense for us we’re not just going out to try to do M&amp;A for the sake of doing M&amp;A there have to be things that in our view fit with portfolio and the strategy of the company and as a result I mean things I think our investors would agree are the right places for us to deploy capital.
Sure.
Maybe just following up on one of those the Mechtronix acquisition in the sims space I mean how is that going? Are you picking up share? How could you -- if you can give us color around that? Yes it’s going really well we’re very happy with it.
The strength of that business so the foundation of it was more near transport side and as we said at the time we did the deals we wanted to increase sort of our exposure in Aviation from just GA into the commercial civil aerospace side of things.
We're really happy with it.
We had some big strategic wins particularly with Boeing on the 737MAX and so we continue to execute well I think on that contract and pick up more simulators as they progress down in their program we have some other new platforms that we’re investing in where we had some wins that haven’t been announced particularly yet but I think we’ll continue to help position us as a very serious player in the air transport market.
And of course we’re leveraging those assets to help things like the V-280 we talked about.
One of the issues around the V-280 with our army customer is do you have the maneuverability and the capability that they’re used to today with the more conventional helicopter.
And by taking the technology and the capability we have in the company now and very quickly going out and building a very realistic well modeled simulator a lot of customers get in there and go out this thing does perform like a conventional rotorcraft and also it’s - I think it's helping us performing well tactically and strategically I think it’s doing all the things that we hope that would do.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
Please go ahead.
Thanks so much good morning.
Good morning.
To follow onto Ron's question but from the other direction.
It looks how we've seen a bit of M&amp;A picking up in defense sector with people looking to put assets onto the market.
I was wondering if you had any expressions of interest in some of your systems assets and what your criteria might be if you were looking to sell some things there? I guess I would say not we have not and whatever it might be or would be we have to be something that we thought was in the best interest of our long-term shareholders and generate a lot of value.
Okay.
Have you got any specific financial metrics maybe you might have in mind then? No.
Okay.
Maybe on the aviation side Scott you mentioned the US market for Cessnas being pretty good.
I was wondering if you could maybe give us some an idea of what end markets have been better or maybe worse? Have you seen any impact in the slowdown in energy for example? I’m sorry slowdown in what Robert? Energy.
No I don’t know how much color I give you on that.
It’s been pretty broad based obviously our citation customer base is for the most part small to mid-size businesses lot's of privately held companies and it's pretty well across that whole normal spectrum of our kind of customers.
And we always see rotations in the industry whether energy is doing something real estate right now is pretty strong construction these are – it’s a pretty broad base of industries.
And I don’t know that I can really give you any color specifically this quarter as to which ones are more active than others.
What about maybe on the charts or the fractional side has there been any improvement there? We haven't had a fractional aircraft sale in the seven years I’ve been here.
So yes it’s been since 2008 so there’s - in terms of new aircraft into a fractional obviously some of our current fractional customers are selling aircraft as they roll-off the deals for previous customers.
So there’s an aftermarket out there but there’s nothing new that we’re selling into fractional right now.
We have had a fair bit of closed charter operation obviously goes up has been a big customer King Air has put some used XLSs into it but that's probably the some total what I see going on - in terms of our sales directly into the fractional charter market.
Now we hope to see that change obviously.
The NetJet guys has selected a Latitude is their mid-sized platform and with that product now getting the certification there’s an awful lot of activity between ourselves and NetJets on how we help market and take that product into the fractional market.
So I think we have some significant upside in terms of fractional NetJet is obviously is a very powerful player in that in market and the fact that they chose Latitude is their mid-sized platform I think it will be big boost to us.
Thanks Scott.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Levenson from Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning everybody.
Could you give us an update please on Scorpion and maybe a little bit more on international interest for that plane as well as V-22? First the Scorpion program is progressing very very well.
We got a ton of flight hours it's been a very busy test and demonstration program.
The aircraft is performing extremely well.
As I think we mentioned before there’s a couple of things as we went through the test program that we felt would modify when we went into full-grade production.
So we had an engineering team that's been incorporating all those changes.
And we’re getting to ready to undertake build of what would be the conforming aircraft ready to go into certification testing in production.
So in terms of the technical side of the program I’d say it’s going very well.
In terms of the business developments side we have a number of customers that are ongoing conversations around the aircraft and have seen the aircraft and there's sort of what I would call a normal business development activity.
Those processes tend to take a while because as you can imagine they are government sales and so budgeting and evaluation and what not is a - they take their normal course but there's number of conversations going on.
In terms of things like V-22 we’ve seen the Japanese deal has been announced it’s been budgeted.
There is detailed negotiations and we're hopeful that sometime this summer that will actually be under contract.
They’ve already budgeted I think the first five aircraft though the total I believe 19 is they are talking about.
So I think that program is progressing well.
There is a number of other customers to which there are active discussions underway.
So I think combined with the COD announcement and as well as those activities I think we got a very very strong future on V-22.
At the time the only issue for us is just the timing of getting these things through the - getting them on the contract and getting them into the production process.
So the – the unfortunate side is it's probably not a material impact to us until the late teens as opposed to some would help us out next year just given how long it takes to get them under contract and get it going.
Got it.
Thank you very much for the color.
Dan I think that we're little bit over time here so we’ll take one last call here that’s still in queue and then call it a day.
Thank you sir.
Our last question for today comes from the line of Justin Bergner from Gabelli &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
My one question which remains after all the other questions have been answered is with respect to Bell and commercial mix will that weigh on margins even after the cost reductions that are being taken are completed? Or do you expect you'll be able to offset the mix headwinds as well? I would say that on the – as you look through the course of the year again what's typical for us is that we’ll see not only overall higher volume through the balance of the year but we’ll see a higher mix of 412s as we move through the year.
And that’s what really drives that quarterly progression of margins late through the balance of the year.
And that would be true across all of our platforms frankly as you look at the cost savings associated with the restructuring that we’re doing that really manifest itself in overall manufacturing rates and overhead rates and so the cost and/or benefits associated with that are spread across all of our commercial and military product lines.
So the underlying mix and volume which will increase the course of the year is really what drives that incremental margin rate.
Okay.
But you don't expect an ongoing mix headwinds as we look out to next year and the following years? No not at this time I would expect it will just see our normal progression where we have higher volumes for 412 through the balance of the year.
Thank you.
Great.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be made available for replay after 10 am Eastern time today until July 27 2015 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T executive playback service at any time by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code 337219.
International participants may dial 1320-365-3844.
Again those numbers are 1800-475-6701 and international callers dial 1320-365-3844.
For both numbers please use access code 337219.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T executive teleconferencing services.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience in standing by.
Welcome to the Textron second quarter earnings call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode and later there will be an opportunity for question.
And as a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Vice President of Investor Relations Doug Wilburne.
Thanks Justin and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Textron's revenues in the quarter were $3.2 billion down $258 million from last year second quarter.
Income from continuing operations was $0.60 per share up from $0.51 in the second quarter of 2014.
Textron Aviation operating results included a $6 million reduction to segment profit from fair value step-up adjustments to acquire Beechcraft inventories sold during the quarter.
Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions of $14 million was $106 million compared to $270 million in last year's second quarter.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
Revenues were up at Systems and Industrial but down at Bell and Textron Aviation which led to an overall 7.3% decrease in manufacturing revenues in the quarter.
Manufacturing segment profit was approximately flat year-over-year reflecting good margin results at Aviation Bell and Industrial despite the decline in revenue.
At Bell the decline in revenues was primarily due to lower volume in our V-22 program where we delivered six V-22s down from 10 aircraft a year ago.
We also delivered six H-1 aircraft down from eight units from last year's second quarter but still expect to deliver about 25 units for the full year.
On the commercial side we delivered 39 aircraft down from 46 a year ago.
During the quarter consistent with our previous announcement we reduced our commercial production levels and took cost action.
This should allow us to perform within our full-year segment margin guidance range despite a lower production rate and lower expected delivery volumes.
Commercial helicopter markets remain challenging primarily in the medium segment but Bell's win rate continues to improve so we still expect that commercial deliveries will be up modestly for the year.
On the new product front the 525 Relentless made its first flight on July 1 marking an important milestone and bringing this helicopter to market.
Customer anticipation of this new platform remained strong as we received LOIs for an additional 30 525s during the quarter.
There've also been a number of recent positive foreign military developments at Bell.
In July we received our first FMS order for V-22 (3:15) contract with Japan to deliver the first five of 17 expected total units.
These five units represent options exercised under the existing U.S.
multi-year contract and will be incremental to our V-22 delivery schedule in 2018.
We expect a follow-on order for the remaining 12 units which will be part of a future contract with the U.S.
government.
Earlier this month Bell was selected by Japan to team with Fuji Heavy Industries for Japan's UHX program to replace its aging fleet of Hueys.
The program calls for delivery of 150 transport aircraft based on the militarized version of our 412EPI model with scheduled deliveries of over 20 years beginning in 2021.
This agreement is a very positive development for supporting our 412 platform well into the future.
We believe the growth outlook for the years remains strong driven by our expanded global sales efforts continuing commercial product upgrades new products on the way and foreign military sales opportunities.
Moving to Systems.
As expected margins were down in the quarter primarily driven by a change in product mix.
At TMLS we continue to make good progress on our Canadian TAPV program with final testing scheduled to begin next month so we're still on track for initial deliveries in the fourth quarter.
At Unmanned Systems our fee-for-service platforms are performing well and we've been awarded additional customer task orders based on this positive performance.
At TRU Simulation + Training we received certification and have begun customer pilot training in our new Tampa facility.
Looking forward to Systems we expect an improvement in segment revenues and margins during the second half of the year reflecting a pickup in product delivery.
Moving to Industrial.
We achieved a 3.7% increase in revenues after a 7.7% negative impact from foreign exchange primarily reflecting increased volumes at Kautex Specialized Vehicles and Jacobsen.
However industrial profit was down reflecting a decrease in our Tools &amp; Test business which experienced some market softness and delivery timing issues.
While foreign exchange had a particularly large impact on revenues at Kautex in the quarter we had strong volumes in North America Europe and Asia reflecting continued growth in auto markets.
At Tools &amp; Test we recently expanded our international tool business through a purchase of our partner's interest in our Endura-Greenlee joint venture a professional tool company based in China producing over 3 000 products.
At Specialized Vehicles we're seeing very strong market performance of our new airport Ground Support Equipment business which was created through the acquisitions of TUG Technologies and Douglas Equipment businesses.
On the new product front at Jacobsen we began initial deliveries of our new Truckster HD (sic) [XD] (5:53) heavy-duty utility vehicle during the quarter.
Wrapping up with Textron Aviation we delivered 36 jets and 30 King Airs compared to 36 jets and 34 King Airs last year.
Margins of the Aviation segment improved significantly despite lower volumes reflecting a lower fair value step-up adjustments and the benefit of cost efficiencies derived from last year's Beechcraft acquisition.
Our strategy of investing in new products continues to pay off as we received FAA certification of the Latitude in June and should begin deliveries next month.
The Latitude enters service with a range of 2 850 nautical miles up from its previously advertised range of 2 700 nautical miles as well as best-in-class operating costs which are up to 20% lower than competing aircraft.
We also firmed up NetJets' initial Latitude delivery schedule and will begin those deliveries in the first half of next year.
Our upgraded (06:47-06:49) continues to do well and we received certifications from Brazil ANAC [Agência Nacional de Aviação Civil] which should open up new international opportunities for this model.
In May at EBACE [European Business Aviation Convention &amp; Exhibition] we announced that our King Air turboprops will be equipped with the Rockwell Collins Pro Line Fusionavionics system and upgraded cabin features and have subsequently received FAA certification for the King Air 250.
We also announced at EBACE that Wheels Up would be exercising an option to purchase an additional 35 350i King Airs under our existing contract.
At last week's Oshkosh AirVenture [EAA AirVenture Oshkosh] show we announced our plan to develop a new single-engine turboprop.
This plane has a clean sheet design with a target range of more than 1 500 nautical miles a speed of greater than 280 knots and best-in-class operating costs.
We're aiming at a segment of the market that we currently do not serve so this product will nicely complement our existing aviation product lineup.
Moving to the Scorpion program we had an active quarter demonstrating the aircraft's unique capabilities.
For example instructors and student pilots from the U.S.
Air Force Test Pilot School conducted evaluation flights of the Scorpion during a four-day event in May where the airplane demonstrated its cost effectiveness availability and reliability.
Internationally the Scorp team made trips to South America for demo flights and then flew to Europe to participate in the Paris and RIAT [Royal International Air Tattoo] Air Shows.
Between air shows the Scorpion also flew demonstrations for multiple European militaries including the UK Royal Navy and Air Force.
To sum up the quarter good margin results at Textron Aviation Bell and Industrial contribute to solid overall financial performance despite a decrease in overall revenues.
We are confirming our full year guidance for both earnings and cash flow as we expect top line growth in each of our segments during the second half will drive strong earnings and cash flow.
With that I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Segment profit in the quarter was $306 million up $2 million from the second quarter of 2014 on a $250 million (08:41) decrease in revenues.
Let's review how each of the segments contributed starting with Textron Aviation.
Revenues were down $59 million from this period last year primarily reflecting a change in the mix of jets delivered in the quarter.
Aviation had a profit of $88 million compared to $28 million a year ago.
This was driven by improved performance reflecting a $27 million lower fair value step-up adjustment and the benefit of the integrated cost structure of Beechcraft and Cessna.
Backlog in the segment ended the quarter at $1.4 billion $145 million higher than at the end of the first quarter.
Moving to Bell.
Revenues were down $269 million primarily reflecting lower aircraft deliveries and last year's $41 million impact from the settlement of the SDD phase of the ARH program.
Segment profit decreased $40 million from the second quarter of 2014 primarily reflecting the lower deliveries and a $16 million favorable impact in 2014 related to the ARH program partially offset by favorable performance.
With respect to our cost actions we incurred approximately $40 million in severance costs during the quarter.
The net impact on segment profit in the quarter was insignificant due to cost savings from head count reductions and the impact of including the allowable portion of these costs in our indirect cost rates for U.S.
government contracts.
Looking forward to the rest of the year savings from the actions will help offset the P&amp;L impact of lower production and deliveries enabling us to maintain our original Bell margin guidance of 11% to 12%.
At Textron Systems revenues were up $40 million primarily due to higher Unmanned Systems and Marine &amp; Land volumes partially offset by lower Weapons &amp; Sensor volumes.
Segment profit was down $13 million reflecting an unfavorable product mix during quarter.
Industrial revenues increased $33 million due to higher overall volumes partially offset by a $69 million unfavorable impact from foreign exchange.
Segment profit decreased $8 million reflecting lower performance partially offset by the impact of the higher volumes.
Finance segment revenues decreased $3 million and profit increased $3 million.
Moving below the segment profit line last year's second quarter financials included an acquisition and restructuring line reflecting $20 million in costs related to the Beechcraft acquisition.
Corporate expenses were $33 million and our tax rate was 29.9%.
Interest expense was $32 million down $4 million from the last year.
During the second quarter of 2015 we repurchased approximately 1.9 million of our shares at an overall cost of about $87 million.
To wrap up with guidance we are confirming expected full year EPS from continuing operations of $2.30 to $2.50 per share and cash flow from continuing operation of the manufacturing group before pension contributions of $550 million to $650 million.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
So operator we can open the line for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I just wondered if you'd kick off with the texture that you're seeing in the business jet market as it relates to demands.
Obviously a pretty good step-up in backlog here in the quarter if it's tied to the finalization of the NetJets schedule or if you can just give a broader color picture of the jet backdrop.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well certainly a part of it is NetJets' miles.
As we firmed up those schedules and delivery dates we do move things into (12:25-12:26).
But I would say in general the North America market seems fairly strong.
If you look around the world I'd say Russia and China in the jet side are pretty weak although from my perspective those have been largely big iron markets so that hasn't had a huge impact on.
Unfortunately things are still obviously very challenging in Latin America and Europe both with respect to how those economies are doing as well as the very strong dollar.
And so that's certainly keeping some pressure in those areas which are historically good markets for the light mid-size business jet.
So it's a bit mixed around the world.
I'd say that North America is really what's keeping us fairly strong with relative softness in Latin America and Europe.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then the aftermarket side given that utilization seems reasonably tepid is aftermarket slowing is it stable modestly (13:24)? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's been a little tepid.
I mean I think we had a pretty strong first quarter certainly a weaker second quarter.
But I would still expect on a full year basis we're going to be in that kind of mid low-single digit overall growth in terms of the aftermarket in the Aviation business.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Morning Sam.
Frank when you had gone through it you talked about still comfortable at 11% to 12% for the Bell margins.
Just looking at the 7.6% margin here in Aviation the second quarter are you still comfortable now? Does it now look like the high end or above the 6.5% to 7.5%? I guess if not I'm just trying to think about what would be the negative if we look at the second half.
It's going to be volume-dependent.
But as we said earlier in the year I think if we see kind of the volumes that we've indicated we should be at the upper end of that margin (14:28) and have some opportunity there because we are seeing good productivity right across Textron Aviation.
Okay.
And then certainly a month or so ago Sikorsky talked a lot about the oil and gas market's impact on the aftermarket in Bell.
Are you seeing anything from that front where it's noticeable in the Bell aftermarket? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well for sure.
I mean the aftermarket particularly in the oil and gas area is certainly softer.
Utilization rates are probably down somewhat (15:04) in that area.
But I would say we have a fairly diverse installed base of aircraft operating in an awful lot of different industries.
And so I think net all things together we would still expect for us a fairly flat year in total aftermarket for the helicopter business.
Okay thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Scott on the BizJet metrics another thing you've talked about in the past is pricing in the used market and also the inventory there.
And I was wondering I know it's very short term but how that's developed over the last three months.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well the inventory metrics certainly continue to be favorable.
We're down to both on a percent basis and an absolute number of aircraft out there that are available for sale at levels really that go back into the mid-2000s kind of number.
So I think the metrics in terms of what's available out there is pretty favorable.
Pricing has certainly stabilized.
I mean you still on a year-over-year basis see depreciation obviously of any given model year but the rate is kind of in historical norms I guess I'd say at this point.
And we're actually seeing again some uptick on pricing on a model-by-model basis particularly as that inventory gets fairly tight.
So I think the used market is becoming certainly less of a competitor than what we've seen over the last few years.
So that's generally speaking a pretty favorable trend that continues.
And the second question maybe bigger picture there seems to be pickup in M&amp;A across the sector we see with Sikorsky.
Also in automotive and some defense IT assets for sale.
I was wondering if this has had any impact on your view of the world and your desire to do deals going forward.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Not really.
Obviously we keep an eye on all the segments we play in.
And as assets come and go we keep an eye on those things.
But no I don't think it's – we certainly haven't seen anything that would alter our strategy or how we think about things.
We look at things that are in our spaces.
We continue to be out there looking at things that we think are nice bolt-ons that will help strengthen our businesses.
And yeah I think now we're in a period where an awful lot of assets are still pretty highly valued and we're not going to overpay for anything but we do continue to keep our eye out.
Okay that's great.
Thanks so much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr of Cowen &amp; Company.
Yes thank you very much.
So Scott getting back to the Aviation book-to-bill of 1.2 times if we take out the NetJets orders what would it have been and could you give us some color by products both between Cessna and Beech and specifically the Latitude? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No Cai we're not going to start giving any kind of breakout on a model-by-model in terms of the backlog.
As I said in terms of color I will say that obviously we did book some of the NetJets deals because they've now been firmed up and have delivery dates.
I would say Latitude we continue to be very pleased with sort of the market receptivity.
There's a lot of activity going on.
There's a pretty extensive list of customers that have been looking at the aircraft taking demo flights in the aircraft and we expect that that will convert into ongoing backlog as we go forward.
So we feel great about the aircraft.
It gets great feedback from customers and I think the model will do very well.
Thank you.
And then switching to Bell that was an extraordinarily large severance charge of $40 million.
Frank how much of that $40 million was absorbed as an allowable expense in the quarter? Yeah Cai again we're not going to get into the details of kind of how that all flows through.
Again a meaningful portion of it kind of does flow through our rates just given the mix of our business at Bell and the nature of those costs.
And kind of again as we said when you look at the cost that were absorbed in the quarter relative to the savings generated and other impacts kind of it did not have a meaningful impact.
Obviously on a go-forward basis we will then kind of need to – those costs will flow through our cost structure but obviously we'll benefit from the savings associated with the cost reduction activities as well.
But you did almost...
It all gets very complicated in terms of how that all rolls through.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Pete Skibitski of Drexel Hamilton.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning.
Morning Scott how should we think about the lack of an authorization at the Ex-Im Bank potentially impacting you in the second half of the year or in 2016? Is there any impact there at all? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> None.
None at all? Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No no.
And then I just want to ask – okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I'm sorry Pete.
We don't have any Ex-Im facilities or (20:22) Ex-Im financing at this stage so.
Okay.
And then just to confirm some of the things I think has been out there in the press 525 we shouldn't factor in first deliveries until 2017 is that fair? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's correct yeah.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
Good morning.
Inventories were up $200 million in the quarter and $500 million year-to-date.
Is that reflecting a buildup for deliveries of Latitudes a higher production rate in the second half of the year or what actually is contributing to it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well there's two big impacts there George.
Certainly one is the Latitude buildup.
So those deliveries will start next month and through the balance of the year.
But obviously we've had a lot of work in progress and stuff progressing here into finished goods in the Latitude program.
And then the other of course is at Bell.
So we have slowed down the production rates but clearly in the latter part of last year coming into this year just given the cycle time of production a lot of those helicopters have already been built.
So we had significant inventory build at Bell which also should bleed off through the balance of the year.
Okay.
And then my other question if you could talk Scott increase in the backlog if you could break was it all jets props or did military have a part? If you kind of just at least give some color as to where the increase came from.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No we're not going to break down independently George.
Look we don't want to tell you -when we have a big military deal obviously we announce that and we'll talk about that.
There weren't any big announcements in the quarter obviously but we're going to – so we'll provide that level of color when there's a big military deal or something of that nature but there were no such activities in this particular quarter.
Okay thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And the next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky of Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey good morning everyone.
Morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Scott and Frank I was just wondering if you could comment on the back half of the year with regard to your guidance and where the opportunities and risk might lie in your ability to hit your guidance rates.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well sure Jason.
Obviously we have a lot that's going to happen here in the second half of the year.
Aviation sort of has its normal cycle which tends to be stronger in the back half of the year particularly in the fourth quarter than it is in the first half of the year.
We clearly think we're in a position to execute on that.
Obviously that requires the market to still be supporting ongoing orders.
But we think we have a pretty good line of sight to the amount of activity that's going on.
But as Frank alluded to earlier still a lot of aircraft to sell but feeling pretty good about where we are.
Similarly at Bell obviously the military side is well understood but there still are a certain level of order activity that has to happen to support our view of the second half at Bell.
Systems is primarily just executing on the programs that we have.
Again a clear line of sight in terms of what those deliveries need to be.
Our Canadian TAPV program obviously is very important to us.
So I think the testing program has gone very well so far but we have to enter into the formal customer test here in the next month or so and successfully complete that so we can begin the initial deliveries on that program.
But if we successfully work our way through the testing then we should be able to meet those milestones.
So I think again there's still a fair bit of selling to be done in both the fixed wing aviation and the helicopter business to make it happen but we think we'll be able to get there.
In terms of upside as again Frank alluded earlier the Aviation business is executing extraordinarily well in both new product programs as well as manufacturing production efficiencies.
And I think if we can deliver on the volumes that are in the plan that's probably where we can have some upside to our guidance.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> That's great.
And then going back to Cai's question on book-to-bill at Aviation would it have been above one without the NetJets order? And can you just on the NetJets just describe to us over what period of time those orders will be fulfilled? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Predominantly we firmed up what's going to happen in 2016 and some in the early part of 2017.
So as we said we're going to put those into backlog as we get obviously deposits as well as firm commitment dates.
And look I'm sorry guys but we're not going to provide any breakout or breakdown on a model-by-model in the backlog in any of the business.
I mean just not something that's normally done.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Hi Noah.
Scott are there any legacy Cessna jets so not the Latitude that are now sold out more than six months down the road? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I don't think we want to get into our – again model-by-model sales forecasting so I don't think we'll provide any guidance.
Or perhaps could you just touch on whether or not lead times on average in a legacy aircraft have extended or if it's roughly the same as where it was the last time you updated us? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's roughly where it's been Noah.
There hasn't been any dramatic change on the legacy aircraft front.
How far out we are it does vary model-by-model as we've said in the past.
But I wouldn't get into specifics on a model-by-model basis for sure.
And then just going back to the Aviation segment margin I guess I'm wondering why you or how you won't end the year much higher than the current range.
You're basically in the range in the first half.
You're typically much better in the second than the first half.
It looks like you had almost a 30% sequential incremental margin there if I strip out the inventory step-up.
Perhaps you could maybe touch on the driver of that performance.
Then if I just kind of use 20% in the third and fourth quarter I can get almost a full 200 basis points ahead of the mid-point of the guidance range there.
So is there a missing new component in the back half? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I don't think there's a big missing piece here Myles (sic) [Noah] (27:28) in terms of your analysis.
I think that if we can drive the volume in the second half of the year that we'll see stronger margins.
And that's why I commented earlier with one of the other questions I think that we can exceed our guidance range on the Aviation side.
But again that is predicated on seeing the continued strength in the market particularly North America that we've seen to help drive that volume.
We're always going to have a little bit of a mix here with the military side versus the commercial side and military deliveries we're continuing to perform under our JPAT contracts so those will result in lower incremental margins.
I mean that's relatively lower margin mixes as we go forward compared to the incrementals on the commercial side.
But again I think the bigger issue here will be can we drive the volume in the second half of the year.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
The next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
Just a question on capital allocation.
You bought back some stock in Q2 hadn't bought back any in Q1.
So when we're thinking about a placeholder for this year obviously absent any major M&amp;A moves should we assume a sort of $300 million to $400 million level like you spent last year as a good sort of placeholder? Yeah again our capital allocation has not changed.
So as we've said we're going to buy back stock at least to offset the dilution associated with our share purchase programs.
And I've indicated we will pay down a little bit of bank debt associated with the Beechcraft acquisition this year.
But kind of a number in that range assuming that kind of there are not other applications of capital is not an unreasonable range.
Thank you.
And then my second question around the Bell commercial helicopter sort of delivery outlook.
Was there any kind of change in tempo as you went through Q2 in terms of customer appetite for deliveries? And should we expect that delivery schedule in the second half to be fairly even or is it very kind of Q4 loaded on the commercial Bell? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's probably going to be more Q4 loaded as it sort of typically is Julian.
I think the appetite like a lot of our customers particularly both oil and gas directly as well as a lot of the petrodollar-based economies seem to be kind of getting their head around a stabilized lower dollar per barrel of oil.
So I think we're going through a normal cycle here.
Things shut off pretty hard over the last 18 months I would expect to sort of see some recovery as we go forward but it's going to be modest and at least there's a fair bit of customer activity discussions going on but it's going to be awhile probably for those things to come to fruition.
But in terms of our particular guidance we always end up with a higher mix particularly in the 412s that are in the fourth quarter of the year versus the third quarter.
Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
The next question comes from the line of David Strauss of UBS Good morning.
Scott on the Latitude and thinking about their ramp up there obviously on the M2 you had a pretty aggressive ramp up CJ4 a pretty aggressive ramp up.
Are we looking at a similar kind of ramp up on the Latitude at those two aircraft? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes we are.
I think from a production standpoint it ramps fairly quickly.
Obviously we'll have our initial deliveries here in the third quarter but again it will be heavier into the fourth quarter as that production ramp goes.
But the production facilities capabilities tooling everything is in place to meet what we believe is the expected demand and I think we're going to be in pretty good shape on it.
Our cost is where we expect it to be so its margin rates should be consistent with what we see in our mid-size jet market today.
And the NetJets' order is that still 25 firm or have they exercised any of their options? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I'm sorry David I don't recall the exact numbers.
I thought the firm was a bigger number than that.
But anyway this is all the delivery commitments that we've moved into backlog obviously are under that initial firm order contract.
Okay.
And a last one Frank the inventory step-up related to Beech is that all now behind us? Yes there's a couple million dollars left but it's essentially done.
Great.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Sheila Kahyaoglu of Jefferies.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just you provided some very helpful color in terms of geographic color in business jets.
Can you maybe provide an update on what you're seeing buying behavior patterns from different end market customers? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So Sheila I'd have to say that most of the -- I mean if you look at our product mix and when you think about M2s up through really the XLS space we still continue to see the strength of that market around small midsize businesses a lot of family-owned stuff a lot of owner operators individuals of that sort.
I'd say that particularly as we look at the Latitude Latitude when we look at that list of prospective customers clearly as they go into the fractional market that's a pretty diverse group of everything from high-net individuals to corporates but the Latitude whole aircraft sales are very heavily biased towards corporate buyers.
So these are corporate flight departments.
The attractiveness of that aircraft the cabin size the range and performance while there's some high-net-worth and some smaller businesses it is dominated by more corporate interest.
Okay.
And then just one more on Bell.
In terms of the restructuring do you have an update on what the cost savings is for this year and maybe what it looks like for next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'm not sure we would really break out specific numbers Sheila.
Obviously the costs were virtually all incurred here in the second quarter.
As Frank said the nature of program accounting and the way that impacts the rates and flows through production we kind of expect it to net out to not much of an impact here this year.
What it means in terms of next year obviously we have savings associated with those actions.
But by design that was intended to offset the fact that we expect to have lower production volumes as we go into next year.
So from a margin rate perspective we're not obviously going to guide to that yet.
I mean that's something we'll have to talk about for 2016.
It will largely be dependent on what we think will happen in terms of volume at Bell for 2016 as to whether that's a tailwind or not.
Got it.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And the next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein of Bank of America.
Yeah.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
(35:33) I'm trying to not beat a dead horse here but maybe get at it at a different angle.
You guys said in the North American market it's good activity it feels good.
Can you give any more color around that like what that means how much tire kicking is going on how tire kicking is converting into orders that kind of thing? Is there any way you can give us a better feel for like what good means? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think it is good if we can take more orders than we sell.
Right? So I mean I think the backlog changes is something that I think is good for us regardless of where the end market is but I think most of the color that we're trying to provide here is I think we look at the world right now as kind of an 80% North American market and a 20% international market.
And that really is driven by the fact that the dollar is very strong.
Latin American economies are very challenged.
Europe is probably kind of going sideways.
But the strong U.S.
dollar makes big ticket capital items pretty expensive.
So I mean that's just kind of the way I would kind of look around the world.
We feel pretty good about what's going on in North America.
There's deals that are converting from opportunities into hard orders and sales are happening.
So we still need that to continue through the balance of the year to get to where we want to be.
But when we look at the conversion of that activity into actual order book and we look at the kind of the level of activity that's going on in terms of prospect lists we feel pretty good about it Okay great.
And then maybe just one quick follow-on.
You mentioned that you had a good productive quarter with Scorpion.
You brought it to South America.
How much closer are we to actually nailing down a deal on the Scorpion? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Oh we have a number that are in the works.
So one of the challenges -- just a normal part of a process on any kind of a military customer deal is you also have to get to the final aircraft configuration.
And so while we've been thrilled with the performance of the aircraft and all the work that we've done we have a couple of things that we're doing to the aircraft.
We'll have a conforming version of the aircraft that's appropriate to go into certification testing in the first half of next year and that's really the aircraft that customers will look at to make that final buying decision.
So there's a number of interests.
There's a lot of demo flights coming on.
There's places we've taken the aircraft.
There's customers that have come to Wichita to fly the aircraft to look at the aircraft.
So there's a bunch of activity out there but we need to get this thing to its final production configuration and get into cert tests which is in the first half of next year.
Okay.
So not to put you on the spot but it will.
Do you think we could see one before the end of the year or is that a long shot? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I don't think before the end of the year.
Okay.
Okay.
So maybe next year.
All right that's cool.
Thank you so much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
The next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Jeff.
Good morning.
Hey.
Just a couple of quick ones.
Scott just thinking about the Latitude launch obviously the mission and price and range and everything on the Sovereign XLS are different et cetera but do you see some cannibalization around the edge as you launch that? And how would you characterize it? Do you think of Latitude being 80% incremental to your volume or some other number? And I guess regardless of whether or not you think there's any cannibalization as it launches is the launch mix negative to you once you kind of get the initial units out the door? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Jeff so I think 80/20 might be the right number.
I mean we always have customers that are looking at more than one model and trying to decide how to match their mission be it range payload et cetera and how they decide which of our products.
I would say that there's a pretty significant price difference between an XLS+ and a Latitude.
So I wouldn't say there's zero in there but when people are looking at those two aircraft it is a pretty significant price difference it's a big range difference it's a big cabin difference.
So I think those two are very different aircraft.
I think we do have some customers that will look at a Latitude and a Sovereign.
And in that case they kind of have to make the decision based on a Sovereign has some additional range and some additional seating capacity and that's really what then drives that decision between a Sovereign versus a Latitude.
From our perspective from a production manufacturing operation it really is kind of a wash.
So we're able to kind of work with the customer and say which aircraft best fits what you need and they pick the aircraft that makes sense that there's no reason for us to have a reason to bias it one way or the other.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just back on M&amp;A somebody asked earlier but it does certainly sound or look like you were deep in the hunt on Sikorsky.
Should we think of that as just being obviously an iconic asset that may be for sale once every 70 years and of course you're going to have to look at something that? Or are you actually more actively looking at things and cultivating as opposed to maybe just waiting for things to kind of come across the transom? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I guess I won't comment – I can't shouldn't probably comment too much on the Sikorsky deal.
There's certainly been plenty of media coverage on that.
And the media is the media.
So I think what we would say is we always keep an eye out for assets that are in our spaces.
We are always looking and sort of thinking about things that would make sense for us or would not make sense for us and that's the path we'll stay on.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Seth Seifman of JPMorgan.
Thanks very much and good morning.
I just wanted to ask about the exposure to China at Kautex and if you see any slowing there or are concerned about any slowing? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We really haven't.
Obviously Kautex has a number of plants in China in the automotive segment.
So if there was any kind of material change in auto demand that would have an impact on us.
But again Kautex is a big auto business.
We've got plants all over the world and it's not unusual for us to go through cycles where one region is doing better than the other.
So certainly there's some exposure there to the Chinese automotive market but it's not something I would be losing a whole lot of sleep over I guess at this point.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just to follow up I guess looking at Industrial it seems like you're very much on track to meet the guidance for the year.
As you look to the second half what are kind of the key trends in each of the three areas that gets you there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think in the Industrial segment again we generally saw pretty broad growth in all of the businesses.
The only business that was a little soft for us was the Tools &amp; Test business.
That had to do with a couple industries that were a little soft in the quarter.
We have expected some deals that we thought would close that didn't close some of which I actually now closed as we moved into the third quarter.
So I would say those are mostly just timing related.
We have obviously seen some softness in the energy market so we had an awful lot of strength over the last couple of years in the Marcellus in the Balkans (43:39) and places like that which have clearly slowed down.
So while there's some macro impact we believe we'd still see ongoing softness.
There were some other areas that I would say were more timing related and we would expect to still be clearly on track to hit our guidance around the Industrial segment.
Great.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
The next question comes from Johnny Wright of Nomura.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just on Systems I know you've talked much about the margins there.
Maybe can you just flesh out the mix impact you saw in 2Q and how you see that rolling over the second half of the year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I guess two of the main things is that clearly the vehicle deliveries are very back-end-loaded because of the process of going through all of our testing and completing that program and starting deliveries on our TAPV program which will be a Q4 event.
Otherwise we've had no deliveries on that program as we wait to get through the test program.
So that's been an overall drag.
The other is that we have had an awful lot of investment here in the first half of the year around our Simulation business.
We've opened a brand-new training center.
We've done a lot of simulator design development production work for our own use including things like the V-280 to demonstrate the performance and capability of that product for sort of for use in customer sales and marketing efforts.
And we need that business to swing to a more profitable phase here in the back half of the year.
So that's been dragging somewhat on our Systems segment margins as well.
But the bottom line is we have a lot more product delivery here in the back half of the year particularly in the fourth quarter than we've had in the first half which is what we expected frankly.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
And then you brought up the V-280.
Does Lockheed's acquisition of Sikorsky have any impact on that program given they're going to be on both sides of the competition now? And how do you think about that conflict? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well it certainly doesn't have an immediate impact.
We've had Lockheed as one of our teammates on that program.
They're doing all the cockpit and mission systems for the aircraft.
They've done a great job for us in terms of performing on that design development activity and we expect that it will stay that way to support heading towards first flight here in 2017.
The program's going great so there's no reason from our perspective to see any change in that program on FVL at this time.
Inc.</span></strong> All right guys thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Justin Bergner of Gabelli &amp; Company.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning.
Morning.
My first question relates to the pace of corporate expenses.
They were down nicely in the first half of the year $75 million versus $81 million.
Could you maybe talk about some of the puts and takes there and how we should think about corporate expenses on a quarterly or annual run rate basis going forward? Yeah there is always some volatility in the corporate expense line around both timing of spend and just then the accounting for incentive-based compensation that is impacted by the share price.
So we do get quarterly volatility.
Obviously we're watching our overall controllable expenses very carefully but there's no change in our expectations around full-year corporate expense coming in around the $170 million $175 million level.
Okay thank you.
One more if I may.
With respect to Lockheed Martin's pending acquisition of Sikorsky it might be helpful if you were able to comment a bit about some of the opportunities and risks associated with having Sikorsky owned by a new company being Lockheed Martin versus United Technologies.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't think it changes our perspective of Sikorsky whether their parent company is UTX or their parent company is Lockheed Martin.
The dynamic in terms of competition in the marketplace for us is largely unchanged.
Okay.
And the Future Vertical Lift program dynamics will that get sort of sorted out in due time? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think so.
Look as I said earlier Lockheed has been a great teammate for us on the V-280 program.
We're all very focused on getting that aircraft to first flight and executing our commitments with our customer around that program.
And then the dynamics of where that program goes from there is very much to be determined.
And really not so much having to do with where the Sikorsky ownership is or where Lockheed is but where does the customer go from there.
Still that program will have to go through this initial demonstrator phase and then the program will morph as all programs do in terms of how it goes into the next steps.
So I don't think at this point that's driven one way or the other by where Sikorsky or Lockheed are but where does the customer want to go.
But at least what's critical to us is that where we are today and how we execute and complete the tech demonstrator phase program and importantly getting into first flight in 2017 is unchanged by who that particular division is owned by and where Sikorsky is.
Great.
Thank you for taking my questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Next question comes from the line of Steve Levenson of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
On the V-22s for Japan can you tell us please since that's an option exercise does the pricing change at all? Or is it the same as the ones within the multiyear agreement now? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The program when the multiyear 2 contract was negotiated the provisions for options were laid into that contract.
So everything in terms of how it's priced was already all negotiated up-front with the customer.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And on the single-engine turboprop can you give us an idea how big you think the market is and will it change the research and development spending expectations? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well from an R&amp;D perspective it's baked into our long-range plan in terms of the Aviation business in total.
In terms of the size of that market segment I'm sorry I don't have all those charts in front of me at the moment but I mean you're really talking about the market today which is largely dominated by the TBM and PC-12 product lines.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And we have another question from the line of George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
Yes.
In the Systems margin Frank I mean that was the weakest margin in about three years.
So were there any charges in there or was it really just all the performance mix? No it's really – as Scott had indicated earlier George it was really all kind of performance mix a low volume core and some pretty significant spend at TRU where as we said there's been a lot of focus on both standing up the training operations as well as other internal investment essentially that kind of doesn't get revenue recognition.
So as we produce simulators for ourselves as we support the V-280 program from TRU and things like that kind of we incur cost and effort but don't see revenue and profit flow from that.
So that's why we had the impact that we had.
Again kind of in terms of full year things are back-end-loaded.
We do expect a recovery in margins to be kind of in line with the guidance that we've given for the full year on Systems.
Okay.
And one other on it.
Pre-owned how did that compare year-over-year and sequentially in the quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It had an insignificant impact on a year-over-year basis George.
Yeah.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Very close to zero.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
All right ladies and gentlemen that concludes our call for today.
Thank you for joining us and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for digital replay from 10:00 AM today through October 26.
You can access the replay by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 337220.
International participants may dial using 320-365-3844 and entering the same access code of 337220.
Again.
Those numbers are 1-800-475-6701.
Or 320-365-3844 both utilizing the access code of 337220.
We do thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thanks for standing by and welcome to the Textron Third Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session later.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Doug Wilburne.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Brad and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I'd like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Textron's revenues in the quarter were $3.2 billion down 7.3% from $3.4 billion in last year's third quarter.
However income from continuing operations was $0.63 per share up 10.5% from $0.57 per share in the third quarter of 2014.
Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions of $16 million was $116 million compared to $144 million in last year's third quarter.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Doug and good morning everybody.
Revenues were up at Textron Aviation Systems and Industrial but down at Bell which led to an overall decrease in revenue in the quarter.
Segment profit was up 6.5% reflecting improved margin results in each of our business segments.
At Bell the decline in revenues was primarily due to lower deliveries in our V-22 program as we delivered four V-22s down from 12 a year ago.
This decline was partially offset by an increase in H-1 deliveries as we delivered five units this year compared to four in last year's third quarter.
On the commercial side shipments were also up with 45 aircraft delivered in the quarter compared to 41 a year ago.
While commercial helicopter markets remain challenging Bell continues to show a favorable win rate so we still believe the commercial deliveries will be up modestly this year.
On the new product front we've completed over 45 hours of ground testing and 35 hours of flight testing on our 525 Relentless program since the program's first flight on July 1.
During that time we've successfully conducted numerous tests including ground resonance testing gross weight and envelope expansion maximum continuous power climbs minimum power descents and initial autorotation testing.
We've also successfully engaged a full fly-by-wire system to a speed of 150 knots and an altitude of 13 000 feet.
Overall the aircraft has performed very well proving to be a very stable platform that is meeting or exceeding all of our initial performance expectations.
We've completed structural assembly of our second 525 test aircraft and expect it to enter the flight test program by the end of the year with a third test aircraft expected to follow close behind.
We are currently targeting certification and first delivery of the 525 during the first half of 2017.
Our 505 Jet Ranger X program is also making good progress as we've now accumulated over 470 flight test hours.
We are targeting certification and entry into service during the first half of next year.
We also continue to have success on both the U.S.
and foreign military front at Bell.
As discussed during our last earnings call we received our first international order for V-22s in July with the signing of a contract with Japan to deliver the first five of 17 expected total units.
On the H-1 front we were awarded a DoD contract in August for an additional 35 H-1 units consisting of 32 aircraft for the U.S.
Marine Corps and the first three of 12 planned deliveries for Pakistan.
Based on the existing U.S.
Marine and Pakistan requirements we expect a gradual increase in H-1 deliveries from the mid-20 this year to the mid-30s in 2017 and 2018.
Moving to Systems both revenues and margins were up reflecting higher weapons and unmanned systems deliveries.
At Marine &amp; Land Systems last month we were awarded a contract to supply 55 COMMANDO Select armored vehicles to the Afghan National Army.
We expect to deliver most of those units during the fourth quarter and we're pursuing a number of other promising foreign military opportunities for our COMMANDO line.
Elsewhere at TMLS we continue to make good progress on the Ship-to-Shore development program with the first two landing aircraft now in production.
The initial craft remains on track for delivery in 2017.
Moving to Industrial we achieved a 5.5% increase in revenue after a 7.5% negative impact from foreign exchange reflecting strong organic growth in each of our businesses.
Kautex had the highest increase in revenue with volumes up in Europe North America and Asia.
Textron Specialized Vehicles also had solid growth across all business lines reflecting our focus on new products and the success of recent acquisitions.
At Jacobsen we launched our new Professional Series commercial grade lineup of mowers and utility vehicles aimed at the North American missile market at last week's GIE+EXPO industry show in Louisville Kentucky.
Overall our Industrial segment is performing well both on the top line and in terms of cost productivity in what has otherwise been a difficult industrial environment.
Wrapping up with Textron Aviation we delivered 37 jets and 29 King Airs compared to 33 jets and 30 King Airs last year.
Margins in the Aviation segment improved significantly on the higher revenues and improved performance which included lower amortization related to fair value step-up adjustments.
Our strategy of investing in new products continues to pay off as we delivered our first four Latitudes in the quarter.
We expect to see a ramp of Latitude deliveries reflecting both retail demand and deliveries to NetJets.
The Latitude opens the door to our new generation of larger cabin Citations including the new Longitude which will make its public debut next month at the annual NBAA show.
We believe the Longitude will be a significant game changer in the business jet world when we reveal its superior performance design characteristics and best-in-class operating cost.
We will have a broad array of Citation and King Air products on display as well as product-related developments to share.
So we expect NBAA to be a positive catalyst for Textron Aviation as we look to 2016 and beyond.
To sum up the third quarter good margin results across our businesses contributed to a solid overall financial performance.
With only a quarter to go we're adjusting our full-year guidance for earnings by bringing up the bottom of the range by $0.10 and maintaining our outlook for cash flow.
With that I'll turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott and good morning everyone.
Segment profit in the quarter was $312 million up $19 million from the third quarter of 2014 on a $250 million decrease in revenues.
Let's review how each of the segments contributed starting with Textron Aviation.
Revenues were up $79 million from this period last year reflecting higher jet and military deliveries.
Aviation had a profit of $107 million compared to $62 million a year ago.
This increase reflected the higher volumes as well as improved performance which included a lower amortization of $9 million related to fair value step-up adjustments.
Backlog in the segment ended the quarter at $1.4 billion approximately flat with the end of the second quarter.
Moving to Bell revenues were down $426 million reflecting lower V-22 deliveries and lower commercial revenues largely related to lower aftermarket volume and a change in the mix of commercial aircraft.
Segment profit decreased $47 million from the third quarter of 2014 reflecting the lower volumes partially offset by favorable performance largely related to our cost-reduction activities.
At Textron Systems revenues were up $62 million primarily due to higher weapons and sensors and unmanned systems volumes.
Segment profit was up $12 million reflecting the impact of the higher volumes.
Industrial revenues increased $43 million due to higher overall volumes partially offset by $59 million of unfavorable impact from foreign exchange.
Segment profit increased $8 million reflecting the impact of the higher volumes.
Finance segment revenues decreased $8 million and profit increased $1 million.
Moving below the segment profit line corporate expenses were $27 million down sequentially from the second quarter primarily from the impact of lower ending share price.
Our tax rate in the quarter was 30.2%.
Interest expense was $33 million down $4 million from last year.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 3.1 million of our shares at an overall cost of about $124 million.
Year-to-date we've repurchased approximately 5 million of our shares at an overall cost of about $211 million.
To wrap up with guidance we are estimating full-year EPS from continuing operations of $2.40 to $2.50 a share and cash flow from continuing operations of the Manufacturing Group before pension contributions of $550 million to $650 million.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
So Brad we can open the line for questions.
All right thank you.
And our first question comes from Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
Please go ahead.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Scott maybe we'll start off with Aviation.
There's been some concern about emerging market weakness in business jet and FAA flight data still being fairly static.
I was wondering if you can give us your perspective on what you're seeing out there in terms of customer demand and maybe pricing.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think Robert the market in North America the U.S has been reasonably strong.
I think we're pretty happy with the market in the U.S.
There's no question that the markets in Europe and Asia are challenged.
I think part of that is just the economies are in a pretty difficult spot and of course the U.S.
dollar being quite strong puts some additional pressure on that in terms of all the product lines.
So there's no question right now our recovery and the strength of the business is largely North American.
In terms of pricing it mixes by model but overall the impact of pricing has been not really material on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Great.
And then maybe secondly on Bell a very good margin performance in the quarter.
You think this is sustainable going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Robert we've been trying to target the business in that 11% to 12% range.
Obviously we took a lot of cost actions earlier this year when we realized the commercial market would be lighter than we expected so I think we're comfortable with our guidance this year on that 11% to 12% range based on those actions.
I think there's always risk on the volume line I think but I think we're in a spot right now where we feel pretty good about that 11% 12% guidance.
And just a quick follow-up on that.
The V-22 -- it seems to be a bit volatile from quarter to quarter is it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I mean it's obviously been stepping down through the year Robert on the new contract but frankly this quarter was probably a little lighter than it normally would be just in terms of some of the timing of completions of aircraft and acceptances.
So it's probably more volatile this quarter than it would normally be.
We would have actually planned probably six aircraft sell there were a couple aircraft that sold right at the very beginning of the next quarter so they just missed the revenue in this quarter.
Thanks so much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And the next question will come from the line of Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
I just wondered on the Latitude when we're thinking about the effect of that on Aviation margins from here as you see deliveries ramp up do you think there'll be a big negative margin hit or you can kind of manage it across the fixed cost base? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think we'll manage it within the context of the overall business.
So the margin rates the costs have come in about where we expected on the product.
We will as we go into next year in particular because we'll have a number of deliveries into NetJets which typically are a level below our typical retail sales since they are effectively a reseller of those aircraft in a fractional sense.
We'll have some lower margin deals in there but I think it's something we'll be able to manage in the context of the overall business.
Thanks.
And then on Bell you talked about commercial deliveries still be up potentially.
Maybe just home in on 412s.
I think you've delivered nine to-date after 26 in the whole of last year.
How are the orders trending there and how do you think about those deliveries looking out? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well there's a fair bit of activity in both late this year and through next year.
I think certainly we'll be down in terms of the total number of 412s for the year but that's kind of what we've been expecting as we've been going through all of our restructuring and production planning.
Thanks.
And lastly buyback a step up to a degree in Q3 as you'd mentioned.
Is that just kind of opportunistic around the share price or is there anything more fundamental there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I think it's consistent with what we've been saying so we'll continue to retire the – to make sure we're not diluting and opportunistically we do some additional share buyback and we certainly had some of that activity in the quarter.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And our next question comes from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
What I wanted to ask on the guidance for the year and this is probably more for Frank.
If you look at the high end Frank it implies $0.81 in the first quarter.
You did $0.76 last year but you had $13 million in special charges $8 million of beat step-up interest expense probably $7 million lower so I net that out as a benefit to this year of $0.07 a share.
So if I put it together you're actually forecasting a couple cents below last year.
I figured Bell's going to be down but Aviation ought to be up by more than what Bell's down and the other sectors probably not much to split.
So I just wondering what's wrong with the arithmetic or are you just kind of being on the conservative side for the guidance? Well look I think obviously we've talked a lot about we've got a difficult environment for Bell.
We've got kind of we've done a lot on the cost side.
But kind of as volumes have come down there that puts kind of pressure on just the cost structure and cost base at Bell.
So no I don't – I think we're being appropriate given the market environment that we're seeing out there and obviously we're working hard to achieve those results.
Okay.
And one for Scott.
Latitude deliveries four in the quarter Scott I mean I would have thought maybe there's a little bit more.
I mean is this just timing and could you give us a kind of a ballpark as to what we might see in the fourth quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think it is largely timing George.
We've got the first four aircraft we've got the certification done obviously and got the first four aircraft out there into the market.
We certainly expect to see that ramp as we go through the fourth quarter.
Aircraft is still doing great with customers.
I think it's showing very well.
We'll have it obviously at NBAA.
It's been doing a lot of flying in both the U.S.
and Europe.
We expect to get the OSIS certification here in the quarter as well probably late in the quarter going through that process which could have some effect on where we land in terms of total deliveries but we still feel great about the aircraft.
It's flying great.
The customers seem to love it and as I said we expect to see that ramp as we go through the fourth quarter and obviously into 2016.
You don't want to put a number on it though? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I probably wouldn't put a number on a particular model number of deliveries in a quarter no.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Good execution.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks George.
And our next question will come from Sheila Kahyaoglu with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Sheila.
It looks like we'll see the Longitude at NBAA.
Could you maybe just give us an idea how you're thinking about the magnitude of the investment in Cessna overall and further refining the portfolio? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Oh the investment kind of continues obviously at Cessna.
I don't know if the fixed wing aviation has ever had more programs going on at the same time than we have right now but obviously the Longitude has been a significant investment and one that we'll continue to make.
We're holding our late 2017 entry into service on the aircraft.
I think it's going to show beautifully at NBAA.
And we'll have some additional announcements frankly beyond that in terms of what we're doing with the product portfolio.
So the pace of the investment I certainly expect will continue.
We tend not to give a specific number for each of the aircraft or anything but the R&amp;D is continuing as we've committed and I think that's paying off for us.
You've seen what's happened over the last couple years with a lot of the upgrades the Latitude obviously we're very happy with.
Longitude we talk in terms of our single engine turboprop as well as what we're doing to continue to expand our jet portfolio.
Okay thank you.
And then just a follow-up on Bell margins.
As we look out on the commercial side how do we think about the impact of the 505 and the 525? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sheila the 505 given where that part of the market is is usually dilutive to margin rates.
Those aircraft tend to be at a pretty low price point so there's not a whole lot of margin dollars in them.
It tends to make up for that as you look long term in the service business.
We still have a huge portion of our service business today at Bell that's driven by jet rangers and 206s 407 the light single end of the market.
But it won't have a material impact in the margin rate.
And of course the 525 we expect will certainly be a profitable product as those tend to be in the larger end are more profitable in the initial sale.
But again that's something we're talking about entering the service in the latter half of 2017 so it wouldn't affect anything that we would talk about when we get into 2016.
Okay.
So overall the commercial business is net neutral to profitability next year.
There's no significant impact from the 505 or certification on the 525s? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No there shouldn't be.
I mean the number of 505s in the year next year I don't think will create a material impact in terms of the margin rate.
Perfect.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And the next question comes from Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you very much.
So it looks like both the 412 and the 429 kind of are running light and the smaller helicopters are doing well.
What does that imply for Bell revenues for the year? Can you still get – can you get to $3.5 billion and kind of a flattish fourth quarter in terms of revenues? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Cai I mean – it's a good question.
If there's any risk to where we're going it's in that volume and then particularly on the commercial side of the business.
But you're right the volumes have been stronger in the lights than they have been in the light twins or the heavier twins in the 412 side.
But I think we're going to be close to the revenue guidance numbers that we've given you guys.
There's probably $100 million of risk in it or something like that but that's – for the total year that's probably where we're going to head in terms of the Bell revenue.
Okay.
And then given kind of the ambitious new product kind of plan you've got as I recall last year you did about $565 million in R&amp;D and I think you were kind of talking about $600 million for this year.
What can you get – can you update us where is the R&amp;D for this year and how should we think about it going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think we're going to continue to see increases.
And so in the third quarter we were up slightly in terms of overall R&amp;D spending for the total company.
And I think that's a trend that will continue Cai and that's largely driven by the investments that we've made in the Latitude what we're doing in the Longitude and other stuff we'll talk at NBAA in terms of our fixed wing aviation business.
And obviously we're getting close on certification here of the 505 but we have the 525 now in full certification testing we have a huge investment in the V-280 program and obviously a lot of investments across our Industrial and Systems businesses as well.
So I think the level of R&amp;D is tracking with kind of what we told you guys to expect.
Well I think everyone expects the R&amp;D will go up and the revenues generally also are going up.
Should we think of the R&amp;D to sales holding approximately flat or is it likely to be up with this ambitious Longitude program? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I think it's probably flattish Cai.
Obviously this year we've had some additional headwind in total but that's largely driven by the fact that we've been seeing this contraction at Bell principally on the military side to some degree on the commercial side.
But I think our expectations going forward is that it will hold about flattish in terms of percent of sales.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And our next question will come from Seth Seifman with JPMorgan.
Thanks very much and good morning.
I was wondering if I could ask a quick question about Kautex and the exposure to Volkswagen that you have there and whether you expect to see any impact from what's going on there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well that's very hard to say at this point.
VW's obviously an important customer for us but we're a supplier to the industry in total.
At this point I think it's hard to predict exactly how that's all going to play out.
Clearly here in the near term we've seen a movement from a lot of the small diesel to the petro-based models just because of the situation with sales in that product line.
But I'd say at this point it's too early to know what's going to happen how customers are going to react and do they choose other VW models do they choose models from other manufacturers.
I think it's very much still to be determined.
And so for us it becomes a model mix question both within VW or outside of VW.
And at this point we just don't have a whole lot of data as an industry on what that shift is going to look like.
But I frankly don't expect it to be a material impact to us one way or the other.
The automotive markets have been fairly strong and I would expect to see them kind of continue on the trajectory.
This is really just a question of model mix.
Would you be able to size your – the percentage of Kautex revenue that comes from VW? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No we wouldn't – I don't think we would ever publish those numbers.
As I say they're a significant customer but across a very very broad range of VW product.
And that's why the question in terms of what the mix does I think a lot of the mix shift frankly will be within VW so it's...
Great.
Okay thank you.
And the next question will come from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Scott if I'm thinking about scenarios for Cessna production in 2016 is a production decline in the scenario analysis or is that off the table and could you answer that both including and excluding the Latitude? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I won't do it including or excluding certain model types.
I would say Noah and we want to – we're not probably ready to get into 2016 guidance just yet but clearly as we have production running today no I would not expect to see a decline in volume across any of our product lines.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Jet turboprop single-engine I think where we're tracking right now in the market I think we're still running production with expectations that we'll not see declines next year.
Okay.
And on the margins at Aviation the incremental both sequentially and year-over-year stripping out the inventory step-up looks quite nicely ahead of how you guys talk about how that should trend over the long run.
Can you parse out what drove the upside in the quarter and how that should trend over the next few quarters? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Noah it's always – when we talk about incrementals it's sort of how to think long term.
We kind of talk about this 20% or so kind of number.
Obviously that's a little bit lumpy.
We're going to have quarters where we do quite a bit higher than that.
This is a good example of such a quarter.
But we're going to have quarters where it's going to trend below that.
And it largely has to do with how R&amp;D costs are coming in SG&amp;A shows – I mean there's always noise in that number.
So I think the guys did a great job of converting on the volume that came through this quarter and it's a very solid performance so I still think that kind of 20% numbers on an incremental basis are good numbers to use but there is going to be lumpiness to that.
Okay.
And then just one last one.
In Bell commercial has the oil and gas customer at least stopped getting worse or is it hard to tell? And where will you exit the year with that customer as a percentage of Bell revenue versus where it started the year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Noah I honestly don't have that number.
I think we've talked before about the oil and gas segment historically being sort of around that 10%-15% kind of a percent of our sales directly into that oil and gas market.
I think our visibility obviously that's down this year so you're not seeing a whole lot of new equipment sales.
Utilization is clearly down in those markets so that's impacting our aftermarket obviously.
I can't tell you that I see the data on enough of a daily basis to say hey has it flattened? Is it moving around? I don't really know.
I think the trend of utilization being down continues.
And in terms of what that means I don't have the exact number this year to compare it to tell you last year and what that stabilized.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I know that's not much of an answer.
Unfortunately that's one bit of data I don't have so...
It sounds like I mean without – so you don't have the data but it also sounds like it is not clear that it has actually stopped getting worse necessarily.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I don't – I certainly have not anecdotally had any feedback or input from the guys saying hey good news as the oil and gas guys are starting to fly more or back looking for new aircraft.
Yeah.
Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And our next question will come from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Sam.
Can you talk a little bit about – I know you're going to show more on the Longitude but there were discussions last week about delays on the whole Silvercrest engine line and can you just talk about how that's impacting the timeline for that plane? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I mean I want to sort of stop short of doing product announcements at this point but I would say that we're certainly aware of what's going on with the Silvercrest.
That does not have an impact in terms of the Longitude and its launch date in late 2017.
There's a lot of work that's been going on in terms of our portfolio in the jets business particularly the higher end of our jet business and I think it will all start to make more sense once you see what happens at NBAA.
So we'll talk about our whole product line and portfolio and what's going on there in the large cabin segment for us and I think it will all make sense in the fact that we have a clear line of sight to Longitude in 2017 and the product portfolio beyond that.
Okay.
And then just to go back can you talk a little bit about some of the demand in the non-jet programs? Just because we saw both Collins and Garmin talk about some weakness it seems like that would imply King Airs and some of the Beech products might be having some pressure.
Can you just talk about some of the demand in that area? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So if you look at the King Air the numbers we give you guys we had 29 in the quarter versus 30 a year ago.
We've been a few aircraft lighter in each of the previous quarters as well so the volume would be down but only a couple two three aircraft on a year-over-year basis.
So the King Air I think is continuing to do fine.
Caravan deliveries will be in my view roughly probably flat on a year-over-year basis.
We've had a little bit of softness in China.
We've had some good-sized orders in China as well so Caravans will be kind of flattish on a year-over-year basis.
And frankly I think we'll be up and we're already up on a year-over-year basis in our piston product line which are all Garmin as well.
So I think if you looked at our year-to-date performance in aircraft at our Garmin base relative to their comments (31:27) marketplace we're actually up and expect to be up for the total year.
Okay great.
And one last question is can you just talk a little bit about the Canadian TAPV program? I know it's somewhat unrelated but the election seems like it might have some impact on what Canada does in the aircraft programs.
Has there been anything that would affect the demand or the timing or schedule for TAPV at this point? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Nothing political certainly.
I mean we've had no indications that there's any change in their strategy with respect to this program.
We are in the test phase of the program.
And as we talked this is kind of a race to the end of the fourth quarter whether we get deliveries this year or we get them in the next year.
So the test program continues.
Guys are working it.
But in terms of any jeopardy or risk from the change politically we're certainly not aware of any.
But now sitting at the end of October you haven't really started the delivery ramp yet in the fourth quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
No that's correct.
Okay thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And our next question will come from the line of Ron Epstein with Bank of America.
Hey good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
So quick question I guess for Frank.
What's going on with the balance sheet? Inventories are up $600 million in the quarter and it just seems like the balance sheet's getting a little bloated.
And just curious what's going on? Yeah so we've had – we've seen a little bit of inventory build.
Obviously we're very seasonal in terms of kind of what happens with inventories.
We had planned the year a little stronger at Bell commercial and we've seen kind of less volume there as we've indicated than we would have thought and the year has been a little bit more backend-loaded than we would have thought.
So kind of nothing that is troubling in any perspective but it is kind of something that we continue to watch.
We obviously also have been building inventory as we've ramped the Latitude program and so kind of just in terms of how those kind of the Latitude program will grow from a volume standpoint we need to begin to flow that inventory through the system.
So that has a bit of an impact as well.
Yeah.
Do you have any white tail helicopters sitting in inventory? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We don't talk about kind of white tails in any of this right? We have production plans.
We have delivery forecasts and we try and match those up as best we can.
And on the helicopter side kind of unlike the jet side you also have long completion activity at times.
So kind of how long it takes from kind of beginning to fabricate to actually delivering a helicopter can vary dramatically depending on the configuration of that helicopter.
So there's a fair amount of volatility to that.
Keep in mind we took our production cut in the second quarter of this year.
It's now just the third quarter so it takes some time to catch up with that flow through the...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think what Doug said Ron is when we start these things down the line we're not going to stop them so we did cut production schedules.
But for the stuff that was in the pipeline obviously we can continue that stuff and build it out.
In terms of the white tail remember there's nobody – you have to flow production right? So there are certainly orders for all those models of aircraft that go out into 2016.
The question's going to be whether – how many of those you do get completed and finished and able to deliver in 2015 but any that are not are already spoken for in orders that you look at in 2016.
So there's not aircraft that we don't know what's ever going to happen to that aircraft.
But we were running production lines at a higher pace we cut that back in the second quarter.
We are going to finish – go through the final assembly up to the green stage of an aircraft.
And then in the helicopter market the level of customization usually is pretty significant so those things will then go into the completion process prior to delivery.
They're not sitting on a ramp typically in a deliverable form.
Got you.
I ought to mention we had a couple V-22s that delivered a week later.
So had we measured the balance sheet a week later it would have had a significant improvement.
So it's mostly timing Ron.
Okay okay.
Fair enough.
And then just completely changing gears what's going on in the golf cart market? How are you guys doing with share and are you seeing any pickup there? Your primary competitor in that market said they've seen some growth in that market.
Just curious about what's going on.
Nobody ever talks about golf carts.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We talk about golf carts all the time you guys just never ask about them.
No our golf business is doing great.
I'm really happy with it.
Our product lineup is in good shape.
We've had some nice additions to the family this year in terms of some of the – more on the utility side of the product line in addition to just the basic golf cart.
And the business is doing really well.
So are you seeing growth do you think? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We certainly see some growth sure.
Okay great.
Cool.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And our next question will come from Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning gents.
Just a couple of follow-ups I guess covered a lot of ground here.
Just back to Cessna margins I mean to one of the earlier questions sequentially they were actually quite strong and Scott you kind of just suggested that's kind of the normal lumpiness and everything going on in the business.
But given that lumpiness and our inability to kind of forecast that sort of thing can you triangulate us a little bit on actually what you're expecting for Cessna margins in the fourth quarter as part of this guidance construct? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Probably not Jeff.
I mean look this is why we do the annual guidance because we do get lumps through the quarters in all of our businesses right? So I think the margin performance – look we're not going to be able to sustain 40%-plus incrementals on volume obviously so I think we will expect to see a considerably lower margin conversion on what growth there is in the fourth quarter.
But we'll be probably – look I think we'll end up a little bit north of our yearly guidance range that we gave you back in the beginning of the year.
The performance in the business has been quite good in items of its conversion so I think the – frankly compared to the annual guidance number we gave you we're likely to be light on the revenue side.
We've been sort of struggling through that all year.
I mean I think we're doing okay.
As I said I think the U.S.
market the North American market is good.
The international markets have been tougher probably than we expected which means we're probably from an overall annual guidance going to be lower on revenue but probably up a little bit in terms of the margin rate from the full year range.
Thank you.
And then just on Latitude has there been any meaningful change in order intake on that aircraft now that it's flying and available? Can you provide any color there and any impact that it may have had on other products in the product line? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean we're selling them which is good right? So I think it's been well-received in the marketplace.
So we are booking orders.
And we've always – look there could be some cannibalization within the family obviously as you add more products but we're also up a little bit on Sovereign sales in the quarter as well.
So the Sovereign Plus continues to sell as well.
Really those two aircraft are similar but it's a question whether you want a larger cabin and give up a little bit of range and single club plus two or you want to go with the big double club and a little bit more range on the Sovereign side.
So both aircraft right now are doing well in the market.
All right.
And then just one last one for Frank.
It's the time of the year to be thinking about pensions again.
Can you give us any color Frank on kind of snap the line today on the various metrics what we might expect in the next year on headwinds or cash funding? Yeah.
Jeff as I always say there's still a lot of moving pieces.
But I think from a cash funding standpoint we don't expect kind of a need to make any contributions into the defined benefit plan sort of our defined contribution plan sort of be similar to this year's levels.
And from an expense standpoint a lot of moving parts will not be a headwind unless something were to change dramatically and should be a little bit of a tailwind and again it depends on where things come out in terms of returns and discount rates and stuff like that.
Great thank you.
And our next question comes from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
I think last quarter at Cessna the aftermarket was a shade lower year-on-year.
I'm just curious can you give us some spot on the Aviation aftermarket trends as well as the Bell aftermarket trends? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Look I think the fixed wing aviation market this year on the aftermarket is going to be pretty flattish.
And I think that just reflects sort of utilization what utilization numbers that we see in the U.S.
around takeoff cycles and such is up a little bit.
I think the data is not as good internationally but it feels like it's probably down a little bit.
So kind of netting out the two I think ex-the incrementals obviously that we're going to see from the first quarter numbers of the additional Beech and (41:25) aftermarket I think the overall organic number is going to be pretty flattish.
On the Bell side it's going to be down and that's just I think not to be unexpected given what's going on in utilization in the helicopter business.
Inc.</span></strong> In the Bell side is that a deceleration or is that kind of consistent quarter-on-quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Quarter-on-quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm just curious if you're seeing aftermarket deterioration.
It was a little stronger in the beginning of the year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And the only other follow-up for me was on cash flow.
So just for the year and I guess following up on Ron's question it looks like you'd be probably at the lower end of the range for this year maybe given kind of performance year-to-date but maybe in 2016 given the inventory build you might have a cleaner trajectory to have a little bit better cash conversions.
Is that the right way to think about it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think it's all dependent on how volume plays out here in the balance of the year right? I mean you get down to the end of the year every dollar of revenue translates into a dollar of cash.
But I think the way you've categorized it obviously we think if things go the way we'd like to see them go we'll be in fine shape in terms of the cash guidance number that we've given you.
Obviously I think this rolls over into 2016 but our current plans would have us solidly in the guidance that we've given you.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks.
And the next question comes from Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
Please go ahead.
Yeah good morning guys.
I just had a question about the TRU simulator business just because you guys have called out the 737 MAX opportunity as being fairly sizeable and I'm just wondering when the first simulator delivery would be and kind of how fast the ramp is.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So the initial – the contract that we talked about before is with Boeing to provide their 737 MAX for their flight test programs and their training centers.
They've already exercised the first few incremental units to go into their training centers and there's a number of options left to be exercised on that.
I think beyond that the ramp is really going to be driven by individual airlines as they get closer to taking deliveries of their 737 MAXes so that's probably still a ways downstream just given the schedule of the 737 MAX coming into the market.
But the development program which is what it is at this stage of the game working with Boeing to bring that to the market is going very well.
I think we're happy with how the product's coming along and have a lot of engagement with them and are in the process of assembling and building that first unit for their use.
Scott (44:11) thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And our next question comes from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah good morning everyone.
Frank can you talk a little bit about Systems backlog and what you expect seasonally as we move into the fourth quarter and how quickly you'd expect the backlog that you have there to convert into revenues? Oh there's so many pieces to a Systems backlog and it's lumpy.
So no I don't know that I can give you great guidance in terms of kind of how that backlog rolls out.
I think we feel good about our kind of sold position if you will for Systems for kind of near-term revenue realization so Systems is a lot more about execution.
Obviously we need to continue to take orders and execute on foreign military sales and all the things that we've talked about on the Systems side but that backlog does provide a path towards near-term revenue performance as long as we execute on those programs.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay; great.
And then you talked a little bit about the H-1 ramp.
Can you talk about the impact on margins in the out years as the H-1 ramps? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think it's only goodness for us right? I mean it's a very solid program the incremental volume which we've just received that order which includes the next lots of the Marine Corps as well as starting now the Pakistan deal.
So those incrementals as we – they'll probably have a little bit of benefit in 2016 as we start – stuff goes into the production cycle obviously but the revenue recognition and margin deliveries will be 2017 and 2018 but certainly any additional volume is good for us incrementally.
So probably not a material impact in 2016 but beneficial to us in 2017 2018 as we see that increased number of deliveries.
You add six to 10 H-1s a year that's good business.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Right.
Okay great.
And then Scott what do you think the earliest timeframe is for volume increase in the V-22s given the international demand that's come in? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well it's probably pretty similar actually.
We now have the options that have been exercised to support the first five for Japan and it's a similar kind of story right? We'll start -- the long lead activity in production will start to ramp a little bit in 2016 but those deliveries technically are slated to 2018.
I think there's possibility that we can try to get a couple of those pulled back to 2017 but we'll have to work on the customer as we go forward but – so not a lot of impact in 2016; beneficial certainly in 2017 and 2018.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then last one.
Frank what are you assuming for corporate expenses end of (47:19) year end of the fourth quarter that's baked into your guidance? Yeah we had been in the $175 million from a guidance standpoint.
It should be lighter than that.
Some of that is share price performance year-to-date.
But we've got pretty good cost control going on so we'll be less than that $175 million number.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks everyone.
And the next question will come from Johnny Wright with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
So just sticking on the V-22 and the H-1 kind of the international side how do you kind of size the opportunity there from an order perspective in terms of where are you looking at where's the best opportunities on the H-1 and the V-22 and how should we expect that to play out over the next few years? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well look we always struggle with predicting foreign military sales.
And there's a number of customers that are I would say in active discussions on both V-22 and H-1.
The difficulty on these things is just the timing of how long does it take to come to closure on.
And I think it took a lot longer frankly than we would have expected on V-22 for the first deal to come in but it did come in which is good so I think that generates some momentum for us.
We are in discussions.
We collectively ourselves and the U.S.
government with several other V-22 potential customers and several H-1 customers as well.
And so I've only been wrong 100% of the time when it comes to trying to predict the timing from those deals transitioning from discussions to under contract.
So I would say I have a high degree of confidence that they will come to contract.
The timing is hard to predict.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay well appropriate.
I have another question for you -- President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's probably not a very fulfilling answer but look it's the reality.
FMS deals are just difficult to come all the way to closure.
Inc.</span></strong> Well this is going to be appropriate then.
So Scorpion -- where are we at from an FMS standpoint? How do you kind of see the demand playing out there and timing-wise where do you think it's most likely to fall now in terms of first order? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well the criticality for us on Scorpion right now is really around certification.
The aircraft has been seen and flown by a lot of prospective customers.
They're very excited about the aircraft.
They love the performance.
They love the price point.
We need to get a certification program going.
I think we're very close to doing that.
Obviously from our internal perspective the production of the conforming aircraft to go into flight test cert is coming along very well.
We expect that conforming aircraft to be flying in probably the first into the second quarter next year.
And I think that as a result of a lot of work over the past year we are getting pretty close to having a clean path to an airworthiness certification which is critical to be able to close deals with customers.
I think there's a lot of interest.
But the certification box is one we need to be able to check so we're doing everything we need to do to take care of all the design and manufacturing side of it and I think here pretty shortly we'll have a clear path to be able to talk to customers about the certification process which is going to be good and critical to closing on first orders.
Inc.</span></strong> So is it fair to assume something like second half 2016 first order so shipment in 2017 maybe is that a best-case assumption? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Something along those timelines that's...
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
And our next question is going to come from Justin Bergner with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning Scott.
Good morning Frank.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Justin.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I was going to ask in regards to Textron Aviation margins is there anything in the 2015 margin performance that will stand out as a positive that creates headwinds as we look into sort of the potential for 2016 Aviation margins? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I don't think so.
There's no unusual or no onetime kind of stuff in there.
I mean that's – as reported it's pretty clean.
Okay great.
And second question as you sort of move on from – or I guess as the Sikorsky deal moves toward completion and as you hopefully work down your inventory and have a lighter balance sheet have free cash flow priorities changed at all in the organization or perhaps just give us an update as to where they stand today? It's exactly the same which is obviously we're continuing to invest heavily back into organic growth of the business but kind of that's not a – necessarily flows through the cash flow statement item but it's to focus on some of our free cash flow and acquisitions to the extent available and we continue to do that.
And then otherwise to the extent there's excess cash to return that through opportunistic share repurchase activities.
So it all remains the same level of priorities.
Great.
Thanks so much.
And our next question will come from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Please go ahead.
Yeah just a couple of follow-ups.
Could you give us Scott what percent of the orders in the quarter were from North America in Aviation? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Aviation it's roughly around 80%/20% right now George.
Okay.
And the percentage of commercial helicopters that you see to the oil and service business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Quite low.
That's what we were saying earlier George we don't really have good data on that.
It's kind of hard for one thing sometimes you sell a helicopter to a utility operator and what the end use of that is sometimes a little difficult to discern.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we have – I mean we have a number of – there's a number of big helicopter operators out there George and they put those helicopters into use for – remember they're – we don't usually sell directly to an oil and gas guy.
We sell to these helicopter operators who are then under contract but they have contracts with oil and gas operators they have contracts with emergency medical services operators they have contracts with utility operators.
So we have to be careful.
I can't just say hey I sold a helicopter to that firm.
What's their end use? And frankly they could repurpose the flight and you see that right? So there's guys out there right now that probably have fewer contract hours with oil and gas guys but they've repurposed that aircraft to go execute either utility or emergency medical services or things like that.
So it's kind of not really a number I have specifically that we can track exactly directly through it.
Obviously there's some guys out there that almost all they do is oil and gas and we know that but I think that the number – and the reason I say it's quite low I really think most of these guys right now are repurposing aircraft into other markets other than oil and gas and the aircraft that they are taking from us are primarily going into service in emergency medical and applications like that.
Yeah okay.
So you're kind of making a guesstimate and figuring it's a pretty low number? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I mean we work with these customers we know them but it's not something that – there's no system tracking this.
It's really just our knowledge of what are their flight hours what are they repurposing.
And again it's more anecdotal right? It's not okay I can tell you it's 17 helicopters this year got switched over from oil and gas.
We don't have that kind of a hard number for you so it's more of a color discussion.
Okay.
And then just a last quick one.
Aftermarket growth in the Aviation business I assume it was kind of flat to down a little bit consistent with what you've been saying for the year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Correct.
It was pretty flat.
Okay.
Thanks very much again.
And no further questions in queue at this time.
Okay.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
And that does conclude the conference for today.
This conference will be made available for replay after 10:00 this morning and running through January 26 at midnight.
You can access the AT&amp;T Executive playback service at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 337221.
International parties may dial 1-320-365-3844.
Those numbers again: 1-800-475-6701 and 1-320-365-3844 with the access 337221.
That concludes our conference for today.
Thanks for your participation and using AT&amp;T TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen I would like to thank you for standing by and welcome to the Textron Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Teleconference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call will be recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our VP of Investor Relations Mr.
Doug Wilburne.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to mention we will be discussing future estimates and expectations during our call today.
These forward-looking statements are subject to various risk factors which are detailed in our SEC filings and also in today's press release.
On the call today we have Scott Donnelly Textron's Chairman and CEO and Frank Connor our Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings call presentation can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Textron revenues in the quarter were $3.9 billion down 4.2% from $4.1 billion in last year's fourth quarter.
Income from continuing operations was $0.81 per share up 6.6% from $0.76 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions of $18 million was $534 million compared to $449 million in last year's fourth quarter.
For the full year revenues were $13.4 billion down 3.3% from a year ago.
Income from continuing operations was $2.50 per share up 16.3% from $2.15 last year.
Manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions of $68 million was $631 million.
With that I will turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning everybody.
Revenues were up at industrial but at Systems Bell and Aviation which was due to overall decrease in revenue in the quarter.
Despite the decline in revenues we had good execution with margin improvements in aviation systems and industrial and solid double-digit margins at Bell with strong cash flow across all our business segments.
At Bell we shipped 56 commercial helicopters compared to 57 in last year's fourth quarter.
Commercial revenues were down reflecting lower aftermarket volume and a change in the mix of aircraft delivered.
On the new product front we are making good progress with our 525 Relentless program we now have two aircraft in the flight test program and are preparing to bring third aircraft to the testing this spring.
Successfully attained a top speed of 186 knots [ph] in the aircraft's maximum true airspeed target [ph] testing includes continued signal and [ph] testing as well as further development of a gross weight and center of gravity extremes.
Aircraft will be head north to gather initial cold weather data next month.
The team continues to progress through the development phase of the test program.
We are preparing to enter the certification test phase in spring.
We also plan to fly the 525 to Heli-Expo in Louisville in March so that our customers can see the actual aircraft for the first time.
Overall the aircraft continued to perform very well meeting or exceeding all of our performance expectations.
Customer demand remained strong as we currently have about 80 letters of intent from around the world.
We are targeting certification of first delivery of the 525 next year.
Our 505 Jet Ranger X program was also making good progress with three test aircraft now in operation.
We are targeting certification and entering the service later this year.
Our upgraded 407 GXP model continues to generate great reception in the marketplace with overall 407 delivers up 13 units in 2015.
Earlier this month we made the first GXP delivery to Air Methods under the 10-year 200-unit contract we signed at last year's Heli-Expo show.
We are having good success selling our lighter [ph] helicopters.
The medium segment of the market continues to be challenged.
This is reflected in the low [ph] 12 volumes that we saw in 2015 and the outlook for medium helicopters remained soft as we look to 2016.
On the defense side V-22 deliveries were up in the quarter as we delivered eight V-22s compared to seven a year ago.
H1 delivers were also up as we delivered nine units compared to seven in last year's fourth quarter.
Moving to systems lower year-over-year revenues in the quarter were primarily the result of initial TCDL V2 Shadow delivers in last year's fourth quarter.
This year's fourth quarter revenues included delivery of 55 COMMANDO Select armored vehicles for the Afghan National Army but did not include any Canadian TAPV deliveries as we are still conducting our internal testing.
Having now completed initial testing we would begin the customer testing process this week [ph].
We expect those process and final acceptance will take five to six months to complete.
At TRU in October we opened our first commercial aviation maintenance training facility in Wichita with initial courses covering mechanical and avionics maintenance for the King Air Baron and Bonanza products.
Also receipt of a certification for both our Pro Line Fusion-equipped King Air 350 aircraft and its associated simulator.
We give the end pilot training the new simulator at our Tampa ProFlight center supporting initial aircraft delivers in the quarter.
Moving to aviation we delivered 60 jets and 33 King Airs compared to 55 jets and 41 King Airs last year.
For the full-year we delivered 166 jets up from last year's 159 including 16 Latitude deliveries.
During the quarter we delivered our 102 marking the solid for this product that is out in the marketplace during the two years it has been in service.
More significant event during the quarter at aviation was the unveiling of our new Longitude and Hemisphere aircraft at NBAA in November.
Customer reaction to both of these models has been very positive and we believe they will generate substantial growth opportunities.
Longitude has superior operating performance compared to any aircraft in its class and should provide meaningful contributions to revenue and profits at Aviation after its expected entering the service late next year.
Longer-term Hemisphere should prove to be the game changer as it we will open up entirely new market opportunity for us.
With first flight targeted for 2019 we expect the Hemisphere will accelerate the growth in Aviation as we enter the next decade.
We also announced details of our new single-engine turboprop including a new 1 300 shaft horsepower GE turboprop engine.
We are developing this aircraft vial class leading pilot with the range of 1 500 nautical speeds of over 280 knots a larger cabin and reduced operating costs.
An important part of Textron Aviation and Bell brand is our service footprint and aftermarket support capabilities.
In that regard last week we acquired Able Engineering &amp; Component Services an innovative low-cost repair and overhaul business operated in Mesa Arizona.
Able provides component repairs component exchanges and replacement parts along with other support and service offerings for commercial rotorcraft and fixed-wing aircraft customers.
This business is a great extension to our aftermarket business.
Ramping up the quarter with industrial we achieved 6.4% increase in revenues after 5.8% negative impact from foreign exchange reflecting strong organic growth in the quarter.
At Caltex we had solid growth with revenues up in Europe North America and Asia.
Textron Specialized Vehicles had solid growth across all business lines reflecting our focus on new products and the success of recent acquisitions such as TUG and Douglas airport Ground Support Equipment businesses.
To summarize the year despite a decline in manufacturing revenues we were able to achieve a 60-basis point improvement in manufacturing margins and believe enter the year with strong EPS and cash flow performance especially given the challenges of a weaker than expected commercial helicopter market.
Throughout the year we took actions that should disposition our businesses for growth and profitability over the next several years.
At Textron Systems we advanced our Ship-to-Shore program with first two units in production.
The target deliveries in 2017 the DoD exercised options for another two ships out of the total expected program of 73 units.
At TRU we opened our Tampa pilot training center and Wichita maintenance training facility [ph] the King Air training certification and announced three additional orders from Boeing for its new 737 MAX platform.
At Industrial our top-line growth for the year reflected our continued investment in new products such as the Jacobsen Truckster XD heavy-duty vehicle Cushman Hauler 4 x 4 and Greenlee AIRSCOUT Wi-Fi test system.
Industrial growth also reflects success of recent acquisitions which demonstrates our ability to leverage these businesses for growth and long-term shareholder value.
At Bell we continue to improve our win rate in the commercial helicopter market based on the attractiveness of our new and upgraded products our industry-leading aftermarket support and our expanding sales presence around the world.
On the military front we made important progress with our V-280 tiltrotor program.
Provider hands on demonstrations of V-280 to potential domestic and foreign customers using a flight simulator developed by our teams at Bell and TRU.
Manufacturing and subway operations the first aircraft are well underway and we remain on track for first flight in 2017.
Militarized version of our Bell 412 model was selected for Japan's UHX program.
We will be partnering with Fuji Heavy Industries to deliver 150 aircraft beginning in 2021.
We also signed contracts to deliver the first three of at least 12 planned H-1 helicopter for Pakistan and the first five of 17 expected V-22s for Japan.
Looking forward we have a significant number of foreign opportunities for H-1s that we are pursuing and expect to secure additional orders this year.
Textron Aviation we began deliveries on our new Latitude announced its new single-engine turboprop two new business jets and realize the full-year impact of operational benefits from our Beechcraft acquisition.
To finish with Textron's 2016 financial guidance we are projecting revenues of about $14.3 billion as we expect solid growth at Aviation Industrial and Systems and approximately flat revenues at Bell.
We expect EPS from continuing operations to be in the range of $2.60 to $2.80 and manufacturing cash flow before pension contributions in the range of $600 million to $700 million.
With that I will turn the call over to Frank.
Thank you Scott.
Good morning everyone.
Segment profit in the quarter was $378 million down $20 million from the fourth quarter of 2014 [ph] $3 million decrease in revenue.
Let's review how each of the segments performed starting with Textron Aviation.
Revenues were down $32 million from this period last year reflecting lower King Air and pre-owned aircraft volumes partially offset by higher jet volume.
Aviation had a profit of $138 million compared to $130 million a year ago.
This increase primarily reflected improved performance which included lower amortization of $8 million related to fair value step up adjustments partially offset by the lower volumes.
Backlog in the segment ended the quarter at $1.1 billion down $308 million from the end of the third quarter.
Moving to Bell revenues were down $36 million reflecting lower commercial aftermarket volume and a change in mix of commercial aircraft delivered in the quarter partially offset by higher military deliveries.
Segment profit decreased $22 million from the fourth quarter of 2014 primarily reflecting an unfavorable impact from the change in mix of commercial aircraft delivered in the quarter and lower commercial aftermarket volume partially offset by improved performance.
Backlog in this segment ended quarter at $5.2 billion up $76 million from the end of the third quarter.
At Textron Systems revenues were down $158 million primarily due to lower unmanned systems volume partially offset by higher Marine and Land Systems volume.
Segment profit was $9 million reflecting the impact of the lower volumes.
Industrial revenues increased $55 million due to higher overall volumes and the impact of acquisitions partially offset by a $50 million unfavorable impact from foreign exchange.
Segment profit increased $6 million primarily reflecting the impact of the higher volumes.
Finance segment revenues decreased $2 million and profit decreased $3 million.
Moving below the segment profit line corporate expenses were $52 million and our tax rate in the quarter was 23.5%.
The fourth quarter tax rate benefited from the U.S.
R&amp;D tax legislation passed late in the quarter as well as some of the discrete items.
Interest expense was $32 million down $8 million from last year reflecting lower debt levels.
We repaid $100 million of the bank loan from the Beechcraft acquisition and repurchased approximately 208 000 shares in the quarter.
We ended the year with gross manufacturing debt of $2.7 billion resulting in year-end manufacturing debt to EBITDA multiple of about 1.8 times.
For the full-year we repurchased approximately 5.2 million shares at an overall cost of about $219 million.
Turning now to our 2016 guidance beginning with our segments on Slide 9 at Textron Aviation we are expecting about 6% revenue growth brining revenues to $5.1 billion primarily reflecting a ramp up in Latitude deliveries.
Segment margins are expected to be in the range of 8.5% to 9%.
At Bell we expect overall revenues will be flattish at about $3.4 billion reflecting lower V-22 revenues offset by higher H-1 deliveries on the military side and essentially flat revenues in our commercial business.
We are forecasting margins in the range of 10% to 11%.
At Systems we are estimating 2016 revenues at about $1.9 billion up 25% from last year reflecting expected TAPV deliveries and good growth in most of our other Systems' businesses.
Segment margins are expected to be in the range of 10% to 10.5%.
At Industrial we are expecting solid growth in each of our businesses resulting in a projected 7% segment revenue growth to about $3.8 billion with estimated margins in the range of 9% to 9.5%.
At Finance we are forecasting segment profit of $15 million.
Turning to Slide 10 based on U.S.
planned discount rate of 4.75% we are estimating 2016 pension costs will be about $85 million down from $138 million last year.
Turning to Slide 11 R&amp;D is expected to be about $615 million approximately flat with 2015.
We are estimating CapEx will be about $475 million up from last year's expenditures of $420 million reflecting our investments in new products and geographic expansion.
Moving below the segment line and looking at Slide 12 we are projecting about $155 million for corporate expense.
Next year's interest expense is estimated that the $133 million reflecting higher rates on variable rate debt.
We are assuming a tax rate of about 31% as we had some items in 2015 that benefited our tax rate that we do not expect will reoccur in 2016 as well as an expected higher mix of U.S.
revenues in 2016 which were taxed at higher rates.
Our guidance assumes a flat share count of about 277 million shares reflecting repurchases sufficient to offset dilution.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Steve we can open the line for questions.
Our first question will come from line the line of Seth Seifman of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
I wonder if you guys could touch a little bit more on the margin in aviation flattish sequentially and kind of fairly moderate growth plan for next year? The sequential sort of flatness from Q3 to Q4 is larger driven by the fact that we had a fair bit of expense in the fourth quarter between R&amp;D and a lot of cost associated with the ramp up of what we did from MBAA which offset a fair bit of what we saw in some of the incremental volumes on sequential basis nothing more [ph] within that.
In terms of next year the volume leverage probably is now the size you guys will expect.
I think that is largely driven by the fact that we are going to see probably some lower margin on a lot of our incremental sales particularly that which is going into fractional business so we have a fairly high number delivers next year that will go into NetJets probably saw yesterday they have announced the official launch of that product into their customer base and typically sales into the fractional channel are at a lower margin than our typical all retail sales.
Great.
Maybe just as a quick follow-up for Bell I think you talked about commercial being flattish and military.
It sounds like maybe [ph] V-22 down and H-1 up.
I wonder if you could talk about the levels the level of decline on V-22 and is it just the bottom then what gives you confidence on being flat in commercial.
If you looked at mix in the business as you go into next year the military and commercial are or both probably relatively flat.
I think you know we saw a big drop-down this year obviously with V-22 reductions earlier in the year will continue to probably down a little V-22 probably up a little bit on the H-1 side of things.
All-in-all are expected to be relatively flattish.
I think the same is true on the commercial side.
The big adjustment that we really made this year was a reduction in that medium-sized helicopters that you are going to see probably about 12 or 12 and we expect that to be about flat on a year-over-year basis so I do not think there is going to be a big mix shift within the business as we look at flattish revenues.
I think it is going to be true on both the military and commercial side.
Seth on volumes of the V-22 it is consistent with the multiyear too which call for a 100 units over five years.
We have been delivering a little ahead of schedule.
There were a few options exercised so that is just consistent with that and then as we look forward to '18 and the Japanese deliveries we should some recovery there.
Look the V-22s were total expected.
I mean what we saw in the military side of the business in 2015 and what we expect in '16 is entirely consistent with what we have always talked about.
I mean the programs are record in terms of the units.
There are absolutely no surprises there.
The issue really was largely around the commercial side and particularly on the medium segment and those are for us.
Bell 412.
That is typically a very international product and as you can imagine know between the pressure around oil and other commodities just in general international marketplace has been pretty soft.
I think that is reflected overall in the Bell 412 margin so again we expect that the pretty flat as we go from '15 to '16.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Jason Gursky of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi there.
I just wanted to stick with Bell for just a moment here and Scott maybe have you talk a little bit about the margin outlook a bit more detail and talk a little bit about some of the puts and takes that are going on this year.
Then as a follow-up to that as we head into the Heli-Expo show in early March maybe just talk a little bit about things you are going to be looking for into that show and kind of expectations around it.
Sure.
If I think on the margin rate where we have communicated you guys we have been trying to hold that business in 11% 12% rate.
I think as we managed through knowing what was going to happen on the military programs we adjust our cost base to make sure that we could hit that target.
As you see in our segment level kind of color at this point we think we are probably 100 basis points lower than that and that is a reflection of the fact that we are seeing a significant reduction in what we would have expected in terms of the value in the mid-size market as we go forward.
Obviously there are going to be some cost reductions that come associated with that as we lower the production rates and our role in the production rates on 412 side in particular but to try to take out more cost from that and sustain the investments that we need to make in the 505 and 525 and V-280 that is going to us cost about 100 basis points and that is why you see that reflection of the drop.
What we committed internal margin and how we dealt with - in fact we are going to have is - ramp down on the military side and then further reductions that we made this year on the commercial side has sustained margins about where we want to be but I think at this point given where we take the forecast on 412s that is probably going to cost us about 100 basis points.
As we going to Heli-Expo look it is going to be an interesting show to try to understand where customers are what their expectations are going forward.
505 we continue to feel very good about.
The level of customer demand in that area is great.
407s as I said earlier very strong and delivering on some big programs and we had continued strong interest.
429s are kind of flattish.
The question is really going to be with a lot of our international customers how they feel going forward.
That will reflect 412 obviously and you know give us the feel of where things are going in terms of the 525.
We are still a year-and-a-half away from or of making first on the aircraft so there is still a fair bit of time here to understand what the market dynamics is going to look like.
Okay.
That is great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question will come from the line of Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Can you talk a little about the manufacturing cash flow outlook into 2016? It just seems like you have got earnings up pension looks flat.
I know CapEx is up depreciation is about the same.
Can you just talk about what else might be going against you? Why you are not seeing a bigger pick up on the cash flow line? I think if you looked - going into late next year Sam we are going to have a lot of inventory that we are accumulating in the build of the first lots of the 525s and also the Longitude so we will probably start deliveries of both of those aircraft obviously not until 2017 but we will have the priming the pump if you will and know those are two fairly high-dollar bid programs that will drive our working capital late in '16.
We also are playing for some higher tax chases in '16.
Okay.
Then just in terms of the margin pickup at Systems next year.
Is that all TAPV-related? Why is there such a big step up from '15 to '16? Well I mean TAPV is certainly a big part of it.
They will probably have that program going but we expect we are going to see solid performance.
If you looked at our UAS business has continued to perform well.
I think the momentum is very good there.
Similarly our precision munitions business you know good contracts good backlog of healthy business so it is really across the whole segment and of course our Simulation Training business which continues to perform and grow.
Really it is not just one item.
I mean certainly we getting TAPV is a big driver of the revenue increase.
In terms of finally delivering on that but in terms of overall margins it is pretty solid performance across all of those the business segments.
Thank you.
Sure.
Next question will come from the line of Robert Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
Please go ahead.
Hey Scott.
Good morning.
Scott there has been some signs of weakness in large cabin business jet in recent months.
I was wondering if you could comment about what you are seeing in your market the smaller and midsize end.
If anything has weakened there.
It really hasn't Rob.
I mean we have seen not strong growth but we have seen increased volumes in '15.
We expect again to see some increased volumes as we go into 2016.
Again it is primarily driven by new product.
I would say most legacy models will be sort of flattish but growth of new things like Latitude coming out is really what is driving growth in the business I think we see the market as kind of about where we expected to be.
It is performing well particularly the U.S.
but it is pretty soft internationally so I think you know at this point products that have longer dependency on international markets are tougher markets so we have seen know that certainly in the mid-size helicopter market we have seen a little bit on our King Air market because that is typically more international but the business jet market itself which is stronger and a little more U.S.-centric at this point is doing fine.
Then maybe switching gears looking at the different side of your business we got a decent FY'16 budget goals during December.
It is early days but how do you think that will flow through Textron? I mean I think it is good.
Obviously our key programs like V-22 and H-1 came through the process exactly where we would have expected them to be U.S.
business and we just got another order on continuation of V2 program so we are not really in a situation right now where there is a lot of big new start programs but certainly all of our existing and important programs be it in the aviation world or Ship-to-Shore connector or the UAS programs are all funded and in good shape.
Thanks so much.
We have a question from the line of Cai von Rumohr Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
Did I hear you say there is another five to six months of customer testing for the TAPV; maybe give us an update of your schedule there.
Sure Cai.
Look what happened is we talked the fourth quarter about our expectation we felt we could get some of the deliveries starting late next year as we had finalize our initial testing.
We had a couple failures.
It was a very small number but we and the customer determined that because it was steering-related it could present a safety problem so we decided we really needed to permanently resolve those things.
We did that we have completed our or internal testing it looks great but it does completely reset the clock on the customer test as well so we have now started that.
The vehicles are actually under test as we speak.
It is going well but it did reset the whole clock so unfortunately what was a fairly minor changes and minor fix does reset the clock and that means we are probably looking at something where deliveries will probably in the second half of this year.
Now we have built many many of the vehicles there is a lot of vehicles sitting there.
They have been modified you know some minor change so I think once delivery start we will do very well but it does reset the clock on the test.
Okay.
Thank you.
It is not just testing.
There is the testing process in and then the acceptance process so that is why it takes a little bit longer than what you might expect.
Got it so aviation you had a 0.7 book-to-bill particularly weak maybe give us some color on why was it so weak and color on demand maybe by product with specific reference maybe to the King Airs.
Cai I do not know that it was terribly different than what we have been sort of seeing cyclically with a lot of deliveries in Q4 on jets.
You recall last year fourth quarter we didn't have as much of drop-off but that was also there was a pretty significant matter order that was in their which we talked about so you know I do not think the color of the market and frankly know the position that we have today in terms of backlog is very different than what we have seen frankly for the last five or six years so you know in terms of what we need to do in sales and conversion for the orders and conversion of sales as we go into '16 is not is not really different than where we have been so I think we feel pretty good about where we are.
King Airs we are a little bit softer in the quarter frankly thank I would have liked.
They were up very modestly on the total year but there is a lot of interest there is a lot of customer discussions.
Remember we did transition from the old cockpit to the new call them fusion [ph] cockpit on that line of product here in the fourth quarter so that also creates a little bit of a gap.
I think as we have now gone through that production transition to the to the new model we should be in pretty good shape for '16.
Last one you are looking for flat R&amp;D year-over-year.
Could you give us a little bit of color in terms of which of your businesses the R&amp;D might be trending up and where it might be flat to down? Not really a material change on a year-over-year basis Cai.
You know obviously we ramped down now on Latitude but we are ramping up clearly on Longitude so work going on into the Hemispheres and the turboprop Bell 505 should wrap up this year but we are full in the 525 and getting ready for first flight on the 280s.
The number is relatively flat and I have to say if you look across all of our different segments the R&amp;D spending is about the same from '15 into '16.
Thank you very much.
We have a question from the line of Julian Mitchell of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Yes.
Good morning.
Just a question on the Bell firstly if you could just sort of quantify how much the commercial aftermarket sales were down in Q4 and how that pace has changed versus say six months ago and how you see that playing out this year? I do not if we give the exact number but I mean it is down slightly on a run rate basis and I think frankly it reflects the fact that we are seeing utilization across most of the platforms down in sort of low mid single-digits and the aftermarket tends to follow that pretty well.
Understood.
Then in terms of the margins for 2016 at Bell should we think about it as you have a lot of pressure particularly upfront in the first half just as the cost base right-sizes for the levels of commercial aftermarket and then it is about second half or would you think it is a fairly level-loaded year on margins? …depending on how the 412 deliver more than anything else.
Yes.
It is really dependent on mix and deliveries.
It is not a question of can we kind of get to a different type of cost structure just because of the way things are accounted for and kind of mark our military programs in our inventory so it is really a function as Scott said kind of at this point - lower production activities and the impact quarter-to-quarter will be dependent on delivery activity.
To help clarify that last year's deliveries were units that had been produced in a higher rate and next year it is close to the inventory.
It shows up next year but that is the higher revenues on the commercial side offset that it puts spread on the margin.
Look It is going to vary principally as a function of 412 deliveries.
The military margin rates are pretty consistent through the years and that deliveries are pretty consistent through the years.
It has been largely come down to the medium-sized particular 412 delivers as we work our way through the year.
Very helpful.
Then the last quick one just asset prices I guess your revenue as well have come in in the past few months.
Any change in view on the sort of relative merits or appeals of buyback versus M&amp;A when you think about capital deployment this year? I think our strategy is really the same.
As we will always kind of keep an eye out for some M&amp;A activity I think Able is a great example.
This is a business.
It is a very healthy business.
Helps to augment what we bring to customers in terms of our aftermarket capability so those are deals we do.
They are not huge deals but that is the kind of a deal that we would do in terms of the market on stock buyback as you know we are still committed to at least offset dilution and opportunistically we will do more than that.
Great.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Noah.
Scott I guess just conceptually how long can you run a business with $5 billion in revenue but only 1 billion and backlog that question pertaining to aviation.
I get it has become more of the turn business than a backlog business.
I get there is components of that revenue number that do not have backlog.
I mean it seems like it is just a risky thing to do where if you keep this kind of neutral-ish environment you are fine but if you were to have a more sinister backdrop you would have to maybe cut things more sharply than you would if you were already reset to where backlog is? Look Noah I mean the market is what it is I guess I mean we have been doing this for a long time right? where we are kind of coming in with around those kind of backlog and our team is still in aircraft so I think that we are in a position here where we even in a pretty flat market we have been able to continue to eke out some growth on the top-line in terms of - forget the deal right? Just organically in terms of we sold more King Airs this year than we sold last year.
We sold more jet thoroughly this year than we sold last year and we continue to expand the margin rate.
Look if I could pick-up someone would give me another $1 billion or so of backlog we take it but the fact of the matter is that is not where the market has been and it has been this way for - we were talking this morning.
It has been at least six years right we have been kind of operating in this mode and that is just the nature of this industry right now.
It is not a big announce a plane and get billions of dollars of backlog.
You go out and you sell them pretty much one plane at a time and that is working for us right so our revenue keeps going up and our margins keep expanding and that we are keep doing.
Yes.
That makes sense.
I guess the question was just more around risk mitigation of - that has been working but if you had a tougher global macro environment that 1.1 could move sub-1 billion pretty quickly and then you are steering at a more difficult situation I guess but I do not know.
Yes.
Look Noah I mean I appreciate the question.
I understand.
As I said if I could drive a magic wand and make it a different market environment I would certainly do that.
Look where we spend most of our discretionary money is a new products and look the new products we have been working right? If I was to go and say all right guys what if we took a different approach what if we kind of hunker down and ride this things out what if we did not do the Sovereign Plus or the Latitude or the M2 boy I think without all that new product investment it would be tough to sustain a business that can grow revenues and expand margins.
Yes.
I am definitely not advocating for that.
My question is more should production be much lower on the legacy products? Well look we have taken those numbers down quite a bit over the years and I think right now you are not seeing order builds and stuff right? I mean we are not pumping out white tail.
We are matched pretty well on our production today over the last few years frankly has been running to demand.
Yes.
Okay.
We are not generating big surplus of aircraft and we just do not do that.
It makes sense.
On the Latitude on the new product topic when you had a saw at Wichita you could see in the facility some tail numbers and you could see some tail numbers in the 30s so if I assumed that you made it to accumulative delivery number 30 call it the middle of this year that would get you somewhere in the vicinity of 30 of Latitude deliveries for the year.
Is that in the ballpark? Yes.
Okay.
Then so we should think about legacy or production excluding that roughly flat and then roughly that number for the Latitude? That is correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
Great.
Our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
Please go head.
Yes Scott.
I just want to pursue a little bit more.
I know you have touched on it but I want it to touch on it a little more.
The aviation guide for margin in 2016 I mean effectively you are assuming the margins really flat with '15 because you do not have any of the step up in '16 that you had in '15.
I know you commented that a lot of it is because of deliveries to fractional but still I mean to go from what you have been - the high incrementals you have been running to a relatively minimal incremental maybe 9% at least and your guidance seems pretty darn big shifts so I was just wondering if you could comment a little bit more on it? George I mean I think you are accurate in terms of your assessment of kind of how we get there and it certainly on the lower end of the conversion than we would normally like to see again a big piece of it is expectations on lower margin in terms of the fractional which is a big part of our growth frankly right? If you look at that year-over-year incremental and then I know it just kind of walking through the map as well reading serial numbers of aircraft but a lot of our incremental as we go from '15 to '16 is Latitudes and a big chunk of that is going into the fractional market so I mean I think that is really where we are a big piece of year-over-year it is going to be fractional delivered which are at lower margin rates still good business for us but at lower margin rates.
One of the things that I came away with from the investor conference in Wichita was the cost that you are taking out on the Latitude versus the Sovereign in Soviet my expectation was that the Latitude margin would start out no worse than some of the average material programs that you had.
I guess that is not correct I mean or maybe it is just overwhelmed by the fractional ownership? Yes.
It is the pricing on the fractional as oppose to the cost basis.
I think we are where we wanted to be on the cost at a pretty good level.
We are on the cost on the Latitudes.
I mean you are always going to have a little bit of inefficiencies in the ramp up of a new one but it is not a material issue for us.
It is doing really well.
The cost is in a good place.
It just really a question of pricing on fractionals.
Okay.
Then just one other one you commented I think to Cai's question earlier about the book-to-bill being low this quarter but when I went back and looked at the book-to-bill in the fourth quarter of last year it was actually around 1 versus the 0.7-plus that we saw this quarter so is there any added color you could provide on that? Sure George.
If you go back to fourth quarter last year we did talked about the fact that we had a pretty significant international military order and those are lumpier than a normal flow so that contributed a pretty good backlog into Q4 next year.
If you took that out the dynamic we have typically seen in Q4 is because of such a high delivery quarter has been that we see a much lower book-to-bill in Q4 as we have in recent time so I do not think this year if you are to no back out the military deal in the fourth quarter it does not look very different on a year-over-year basis.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
We have a question from the line of Sheila Kahyaoglu of Jeffries.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Hi Sheila.
Just to harp on the aviation margin one last time.
I guess is there any way you guys could see fractional impact is it over a 100 basis points is it closer to 200 basis points to 300 basis points.
Then could you remind us again what the net NetJets' order is? Is it still 25 firm and the option for a 100? It was 25 firm.
It was actually 150 options so… …25 options.
It was out of 150 total...
Right any way yes I think it is a few hundred basis points 200 basis points to 300 basis point Sheila when you think about the margin impact of sales in the fractional versus retail sales.
Okay.
That is on the unit deliveries - the total EBIT? Correct.
Then R&amp;D within the segment in Aviation was pretty much flat which is impressive considering you have a new program launch and would you say SG&amp;A should be up year-over-year? Up.
Yes.
It will be up modestly.
Yes.
Not a lot when the R&amp;D is relatively is hit with other one is if you look segment-to-segment it is relatively the same as you go from '15 to '16 so not a headwind for sure.
Okay.
Then just one on Systems is it a second half-weighted revenue cadence like as given that you have Ship-to-Shore in TAPV I would think in the second half of the year? Yes.
Particularly driven by TAPV Sheila the Ship-to-Shore the development program is relatively flat through the quarters but the TAPV will certainly be a very heavy Q3 Q4.
Thank you.
We have a question from the line of Johnny Wright of Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Just one question on Industrials it is kind of exciting pretty decent growth again this year.
I was just wondering what are you anticipating from military markets in 2016 and anything else you want to call out with embedded in the guide… Look the auto markets continue to be pretty healthy as I mentioned in the prepared comments we saw growth again this year and all three regions in the North America Europe and Asia and all the forecast yes we drive our guidance obviously in our model based on what is out there in terms of what all the OEMs are saying.
Right now they are all forecasting rolled again in 2016 and so we expect obviously to grow with that.
We had some nice wins on new models which is helping to drive our growth so our growth has been in excess of what overall markets have done on the auto side and I expect that will be through again in 2016.
Okay.
Great.
That is all I have.
Thank you.
Okay.
Sure.
We have a question from the line of Jeffrey Sprague of Vertical Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
This is John Walsh on the line for Jeff.
Good morning.
Yes.
Good morning John.
A lot of ground covered I just had one quick question on pricing totally understand what is going with the fractional business.
Could you kind of just comments on like-for-like pricing what you saw in the quarter and what you are expecting in the guidance? It has been pretty flat John.
I mean some are rough a little bit some are kind of flat but all-in-all it is not materially different than a fairly stable price environment.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
We have a question from the line of Pete Skibitski of Drexel Hamilton.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
Just a couple of quick one on aviation Scott aviation aftermarket kind of last year and this year is it similar to the Bell commercial aftermarket trends and I was just wondering if you could talk aviation Citation pre-on your pricing and activity wise? On the aftermarket on a comparable basis we are pretty flat I mean we had some changes in how we recognized revenue in terms of some engine programs so we have talked about before this does not affect our profitability but just the revenues we are basically in between the customer and the engine sides so all-in-all I think it is relatively flat and we expect frankly on a comparable basis so a slight uptick in aftermarket in 2016 from '15 and similarly on the use aircraft pricing it has been fairly stable.
Great.
Thank you.
Sure.
We have a question from the line of Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Maybe Frank a quick question on the balance sheet and maybe Scott on capital deployment so is the idea to refine the notes coming due or repay and start to reduce that further it seems like you are getting to a point where point or you are comfortable so Scott is that M&amp;A aperture actually increasing as there is more excess free cash flow here? Thanks.
Yes.
Well from a balance sheet standpoint we will probably refine what we kept coming due this coming year so we are pretty comfortable now with our debt levels you know that the balance sheet has we have had good flexibility over the past couple of years we think from and M&amp;A standpoint so I do not think that there is a really change in the M&amp;A aperture.
We feel like we have been able to kind of do the things that we wanted to do and we will be able to continue to do that but we will stop paying down debt at these levels.
Look our debt levels are getting developed where they should be from a ratio standpoint but I would add the same color Frank did.
We will do deals that we think makes sense.
We have not felt in any way constrained.
Clearly we have access to the market if we need to do that if the right deal came along but we are not going to do deals that we do not think make sense and we are certainly not going to run around and try to find stuff or force stuff that we do not think fits in the business for well just to deploy that way I think our M&amp;A strategy is one where if we see opportunities it is a great fit we think we get good leverage it supports the balance of our business we will do.
I see that but if you are starting to generate excess cash.
It is not going back to paying down debt is all I am kind of getting at if you kind of think about the 600 million 700 million pre pension you get a 100 repo and another sub-100 to dividend and so you are starting to have excess cash I am just curious if any apertures can get better or be you want to be more opportunistic maybe on the industrial sides if the rest of the world kind of constant kind of the rates in that sector? Yes.
Again I do not think our cash on the balance sheet thing is particularly excessive yet.
I mean so that's and it is not like we are worry about [to] cash we will continue to be pretty aggressive that looking for opportunities across all our business on the acquisition side and as that will also be opportunistic around the share buyback in terms of deploying that capital hope we think it makes sense and based where the...
Okay.
Thanks.
The last question in the queue at this time comes from the line of Ron Epstein of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Ron.
A couple of big picture questions for you.
On Hemisphere when you think about it.
I know it is still early days but with Gulfstream G450s coming off the line and my understanding is that they are selling in for not too much over $30 million.
Is not that a really difficult place to try to put a new product? I mean with Gulfstream there with the Bombardier guys there with peso there it seems pretty crowded? Look I think when we look at the Hemisphere and how we size the Hemisphere.
Our intent is to be sort of just below where that market is because you are right I think you know the 450 550 is the global 7 000 8 000 there is 7x 8x.
It is not our intent to be competing with that guy so if somebody is looking at G450 the Hemisphere is designed to be slotted sort of one tier below that echelon of aircraft.
We think that is the market were there has been a lot of reinvestment by a lot of big iron guys which is why we are going there not with the intent of going up and joining in that area because I think you are right.
I think it is a well-served market.
In terms of current pricing I have no idea.
That market cycle is just mid-size cycle so where pricing and demand is right now is a function of the market but the intent that we have with Hemisphere is that slots just below before you get into those big iron guys.
Okay.
Then I think - totally changing gear sort of just real quick kind of a little bit out of mind immediate comfort zone but Caltex have you guys seen any weakness in ISR for auto? No.
We have not.
Okay.
Good.
It has been result.
Okay.
That is good to know.
Finally I cannot you know not get on the phone with you guys and not ask you about the Scorpion any update there? The Scorpion look I think the good news is that one of the most critical issues for that program was always determining the path certification.
I think the good news is through a lot of work last year the air force has now opened up the ability go through an airworthiness process with the air force.
They initiated that program and obviously we fully expect to participate in that so we have the first aircraft that will be conforming test articles in production as we speak and are working with the air force to get under contract to have them conduct and ultimately provided airworthiness certification for the aircraft so that is a big step forward for us.
Okay.
That is great.
Is there sense of any opportunity for it maybe an Air National Guard anything like that? I think eventually there could be either - obviously there is a lot going on budget wise it the U.S.
Government but we have always thought that while this is certainly intended more as international product for a lot of countries that can afford to fly the F-22s and F-35s of the world.
We certainly think that capability aircraft might be one at that price point and that capability could be attractive for a lot of missions that could include U.S.
Okay.
Great.
Cool.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
All right.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
There are no further questions in the queue at this time.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
On behalf of today's penal I would like to thank you for your participation in today's conference call.
Thank you for using AT&amp;T.
Have a wonderful day.
You may now disconnect.