Good morning.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the UnitedHealth Group First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This call and its contents are the property of UnitedHealth Group.
Any use copying or distribution without written permission from UnitedHealth Group is strictly prohibited.
Here is some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
Federal Securities Laws.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we’ve filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated April 21 2011 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
This morning we will review our first quarter results and how those results underpin our outlook for a strengthened full year 2011 performance.
To put the quarter in perspective we are serving an ever-increasing array of customers across the healthcare system.
Our portfolio of products and services is growing and they provide opportunities for deeper involvement and penetration in serving customers' need.
They enable us to deliver more comprehensive solutions and as a result we are developing longer more durable and more expansive relationships.
We are delivering products and services that are more affordable in how they are designed delivered and how they perform.
We are driving higher quality and lower-cost outcomes and better information and interoperability on behalf of our customers.
As a company we have become more flexible and innovative in our products services and approaches.
And we're getting better at combining these in practical ways to meet specific customer and market needs.
We are developing new products and new ways and venues to serve our markets.
Today we can be found in retail settings social networks mobile applications delivered in clouds in true connectivity embedded in alliances and associations and inside care provider systems and care settings as well as delivered through consultants brokers and agents serving the spectrum of market segment.
Every quarter we are becoming more aligned more integrated simpler to understand and easier to do business with.
We are today more easily recognized and more accountable to our customers under the UnitedHealthcare and Optum brand.
Our products service and performance commitments meet and exceed customer expectations are more trusted today.
We are more invested in relationships and more innovative in our solutions.
These themes resonate powerfully in our people and while there is more to be done we believe it's making a difference in our business performance.
So as we update our view of 2011 we now forecast full year revenues to approach $101 billion nearly $2 billion above our initial forecast from November and a nearly $7 billion increase over 2010 results.
We expect per share earnings for the year to be in the range of $3.95 to $4.05 per share an increase of $0.40 at the midpoint of the range.
We see operating cash flows strengthening to a range of $5.8 billion to $6.2 billion.
In the first quarter 2011 our revenues exceeded $25 billion an increase of nearly 10% year-over-year and nearly double the rate of growth in the first quarter one year ago.
Product revenues grew 23%.
Fee revenues advanced 17% and premium revenues grew 9% year-over-year.
Operating margins were stable at 8.7% in the quarter with a strong mix of higher-margin service revenue offsetting a 10 basis point year-over-year increase in both the medical care and operating cost ratios.
With higher revenues a slightly lower tax rate and fewer average shares outstanding first quarter net earnings grew 18% to $1.22 per share.
These earnings were supported by strong cash flows from operations of more than $1.2 billion.
Our strengthening reputation for service value and innovation combined with balance and trusted local market engagement continued to produce consistent growth for the UnitedHealthcare Benefits businesses.
We grew to serve 1.25 million more people across these businesses during the quarter after adding 1.2 million in total in 2010.
We are increasing our 2011 growth outlook to reflect the momentum from the first quarter performance while still factoring in an expectation for a continued stagnant employment outlook.
First quarter results for UnitedHealthcare showed particular growth serving the commercial and Medicare Part D market.
In commercial markets we grew nearly 800 000 people in the quarter.
More employers using fully-insured products retained UnitedHealthcare benefits in the last year and many more people chose UnitedHealthcare during the open enrollment season than we could have anticipated.
Employment attrition was also a less negative factor this quarter.
In government-sponsored benefit markets we were privileged to serve 450 000 more people in the quarter.
This was led by growth in Medicare Part D and supported by consistent and strong contributions from Medicare Advantage and supplemental health benefits.
Seniors continue to be drawn to our Part D value proposition which combines stable benefits broad formulary access and reasonable prices for consumers supported by award-winning service from our PBM OptumRx.
We served 360 000 more people in Part D across all product categories this quarter despite being required to consolidate plan and withdraw from 5 low-income regions representing more than 200 000 pharmacy members in 2010.
UnitedHealthcare grew its Medicare Advantage business by 95 000 people in the quarter.
This included 285 000 seniors from very strong net new sales 35 000 from an acquisition and a decrease of 225 000 seniors from market and product exits and programs that were not funded at sustainable levels.
Medicaid continued to perform well led by growth in newer markets such as Mississippi and Florida's CHIP program.
In total this strong and diverse growth performance helped UnitedHealthcare's first quarter earnings from operations grow more than $200 million year-over-year.
While the incidence of influenza was substantially higher this quarter than last year overall medical cost growth was restrained.
Outside of flu we continued to see a more moderate level of medical system utilization in part to the effect of severe consistent winter weather conditions across significant portions of the country.
We remain concerned about the drivers of medical cost growth the most significant of which continues to be unit price increases.
We follow long-standing discipline to pricing to match expected medical cost and we continue to expect a return to higher utilization patterns this year and into 2012.
The commercial medical care ratio of 78.6% decreased 40 basis points year-over-year and reserve development continued to be favorable.
Our first quarter commercial results include a pro rata estimate of our full year care ratio rebates payable which we increased meaningfully and factored into our updated 2011 outlook.
We also benefited from positive prior year reserve development in our Senior Public Program businesses.
Coupled with effective medical cost results first quarter performance was favorable to our expectations.
Again we expect a return to higher levels of health system utilization as the year progresses.
UnitedHealthcare businesses sharply reduced the ratio of operating expenses to revenues year-over-year.
This occurred even with the addition of 750 000 consumers in fee-based programs which have much higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues.
This strong cost performance was driven by ongoing operating cost initiatives and the benefits of leveraging our scale by increasing coordination and systems integration across UnitedHealthcare's Health Benefit businesses.
I should also mention that ours is the first organization with full HIPAA 5010 core certification.
This is an important milestone in efforts to simplify healthcare administration in part by standardizing electronic information for healthcare payers and healthcare providers across the system.
In summary UnitedHealthcare delivered another strong quarterly performance driven by broad-based growth and fundamental execution focused on serving customers with innovative and affordable benefit products.
It is well positioned to keep performing over the course of 2011.
Longer term we believe UnitedHealthcare’s focus on innovation affordability and ever-higher service for care providers and customers will continue to drive growth.
Moving to our Optum businesses.
I would observe that over the past year we have improved the alignment of our Health Services businesses to better address emerging opportunities in that growing realm.
Earlier this month we announced our Health Services businesses are unifying their external market presence under the Optum master brand.
The change reflects the continuing evolution of these businesses and is focused on making it easier for the broad healthcare marketplace to understand and access our full range of capabilities for modernizing health systems and improving population health.
Our Optum businesses serve key participants in the health system from life science researchers to care providers of all varieties and sizes to plan sponsors and consumers.
A quick survey of recent market successes will give you a sense of Optum's growing scale and diversity.
We expanded our total population health solutions to almost 600 000 new consumers associated with Fortune 500 employers commercial payers and state-based programs.
We closed new business providing pharmacy benefit management for roughly 400 000 consumers in settings as diverse as the labor plan market to independent health plans.
Our EHR medical necessity compliant business serving care providers continued to see exceptional results closing contracts with some 178 new hospitals in the first quarter.
In Connectivity we secured our seventh statewide health information exchange customer.
We also had several wins in the provider and integrated delivery systems segment of this marketplace.
A number of hospitals purchased our computer-assisted coding solution to support their transition the new ICD-10 coding system.
And in consulting we have a number of new awards from federal and state agencies including the study of health outcomes for children with autism.
A market-leading diabetes prevention and control alliance continues to build momentum.
Elements of this program are available in 29 communities today including New York City.
We launched new health plan customer for the alliance in February and are in discussions with other health plans this month.
We strengthened the alliance with the addition of Albertson's and Krogers supermarkets with their strong retail pharmacies.
We will continue to introduce the alliance to new communities this year while adding capabilities to serve beneficiaries in Medicare and Medicaid plan.
During the quarter we implemented the new federally sponsored Telehealth project for the Navajo Nation connecting health information and treatment data electronically to support complex children's neurology care in remote parts of Arizona.
This project increases patients’ access to specialist physicians while improving physician productivity and capacity.
These examples are intended to give you a sense of the breadth we offer to market as Optum and how we leverage capabilities and connectivity intelligence alignment and total population health management to help diverse customers solve specific challenges.
This includes large growth opportunities in serving as an enabler of the integrated care model in various configuration to meet local market circumstances and including the early versions of ACOs as they evolve in the months and years to come.
The goal we hold in common with all participants in healthcare is to help deliver higher quality more consistent and sustainable levels of healthcare delivery better patient satisfaction and optimal resource use working locally to help improve medical outcome and to lower costs.
In the first quarter Optum's total revenues increased 20% year-over-year.
Revenues increased 13% at OptumRx 33% at OptumInsight and 37% at OptumHealth.
We have strengthened recent acquisitions by integrating their capabilities into broader solution sets that we then introduced to our growing customer base.
This deeper penetration strategy is accelerating revenue growth and is an important driver in the increasing pipeline of business opportunities that Optum is capitalizing on today.
Sales of UnitedHealthcare have also grown meaningfully due in part to its overall member growth which embed Optum services.
OptumInsight's 57% or $30 million year-over-year earnings increase was the highlight of the quarter.
OptumInsight expanded its operating margin by almost 2 percentage points through improvements in revenue mix meaning sales with more software and less labor content and favorable leverage in operating cost.
OptumRx earnings were flat year-over-year and OptumHealth earnings decreased $34 million both in the ranges we expected as we began the year.
Both reflect efforts to realign and re-baseline these businesses in 2011 positioning them for future earnings growth.
Optum's overall results reflected 2011 realignment of businesses between segments and related revisions and service agreement which we previewed at our investor conference last November.
We expect Optum will continue to perform well over the course of this year.
Optum is positioned to help customers address the growing pressures of state and federal regulation in cost containment and consumer and client expectations they face for quality and affordability.
As we offered in our opening comment we now forecast revenue will approach $101 billion in 2011.
We provided the revised financial outlook summary sheet this morning that takes into account the stronger-than-expected start to the year and updates our expectations for various financial metrics across businesses.
Our press release includes financial tables that realign historical business segment plans related to our current presentation format.
This simply updates the preliminary information we provided at our investor conference.
We estimate our 2011 results will include up to $0.15 per share for an assessment of our pro rata portion of a policyholder claim of Penn Treaty an unaffiliated potentially insolvent long-term care insurance concern.
We have never sold long-term care insurance to understate licenses.
The state insurance guaranty association laws require we and other insurers fund this company's obligation despite our having nothing to do with it.
Accounting rules do not allow accrual of these costs until Penn Treaty is deemed insolvent by a court of law which has not yet taken place.
We anticipate this will occur in the second quarter of this year.
We expect higher levels of health systems use overall and the typical seasonal earnings patterns in commercial benefit plus the potential $0.15 per share assessment if it is recorded in the second quarter will pressure results on a sequential basis for UnitedHealthcare while Optum expects slightly higher operating costs as we continue to invest.
So clearly we anticipate second quarter net earnings per share will come in meaningfully below the first quarter results.
We estimate 2011 full year earnings in the range of $3.95 to $4.05 per share driven by revenues above our initial outlook and slightly stronger margin.
We believe this range prudently reflects our strong first quarter performance and appropriately considers challenges that may present themselves over the course of the year.
With the advances in growth and earnings we now forecast cash flows from operations of approximately $5.8 billion to $6.2 billion this year.
We continue to value financial flexibility and maintain strong liquidity and regulated capital position.
Our first quarter debt offering was well received by bond investors.
We believe our operating results and the continued strong financial positioning combined with improving market sentiment around the risks of health reform positions us well for a return to the debt markets later this year if we choose to do so.
In conclusion we see expansive market opportunities opening to health benefits and health services.
And we have 2 strong platforms in place to pursue these opportunities.
We're delivering consistent fundamental execution and solid operating and financial performance.
These are driving diversified growth improved physician and consumer satisfaction and higher customer retention.
It is still early in the evolution of a newer and more modern health care environment but we are offering innovative approaches and capabilities to improve fundamental health service performance higher quality and lower cost on behalf of all constituents.
The market uptake for these innovations is accelerating.
We're interested in your questions this morning.
As usual there'll be one question per person so we can speak with as many of you as possible.
And I'll now turn this call back to the moderator for your questions.
And thank you again for joining us this morning.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Tom Carroll with Stifel [Stifel Financial Corp.] These are very strong earnings we're seeing here today certainly greater than expectations.
But how should we think about how these earnings relate to potential rebates that United might have to pay back I guess what late next year? Can you quantify this for us some way? Well I'll let Gail and Dan Schumacher respond.
But I will offer that they have been fully considered in our results and our outlook.
Sure.
Tom obviously we're very pleased with the performance we had in the first quarter.
We revised our full year outlook.
So in doing that we also increased our quarter and full year expectation of our rebate meaningfully.
And I think the other thing that's important to remember inside that is that we made some very nice progress in markets where we are operating today above the minimum threshold.
So all of those things are taken into consideration both in the quarter and on the full year and it's fully reflected.
So your premiums today include an offset for some estimate that you made baked in for rebates? Absolutely.
And there's no way to quantify that for us today even just a range? I guess what I'd say Tom is there's a lot of elements that go into our decisions as well as our performance.
And that is simply just one of them.
And we don't individually isolate those other elements and similarly we don't plan to with respect to rebates.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Thanks.
Just a question on the MLR as well I guess.
You cited in the press release moderated levels of overall health system use.
So you spoke a little about that in the second half of the year.
Should we assume that the trend is continuing to show lower utilization or is this just the same level of low utilization? And then I guess does that include -- when you talk about rebates does that include your assumption that you're going to pay out the rebates or are you making some assumption that you may be giving back premiums in some of those markets where you may be below the minimum? Sure.
Josh when we talk about our trend guidance we're thinking about that in terms of our core trend and our realized trend and we don't incorporate rebate into that conversation about trend specifically.
Obviously coming into the year from a trend perspective we did expect it to go up.
We expect it to go up on the combination of the introduction of the reformulated coverage expansions a more normal flu and then also a return to more normal utilization trend.
And what we saw in the first quarter is that we did experience the coverage expansions and actually from a flu standpoint we saw something that was a little bit higher than normal but utilization broadly was lower than we had expected.
And that was due in part as Steve mentioned to the winter storm season.
So as we look at the balance of the year we expect some more normal utilization trend to emerge.
And we've incorporated that in our view.
So when you think about our calendar year realized trend we now have an expectation that's closer to 6.5% plus or minus 50 basis points so down roughly a point from our Investor Day guidance.
But I think it's really important to recognize that this is a calendar year realized trend and it doesn't reflect our forward view into 2012.
So we do expect trend to increase and we're pricing for it.
We expect to see continued unit cost pressure which is a primary driver of trend.
And we also expect more normal levels of utilization which frankly have been abnormally low.
Okay.
And then Dan I'm just sorry on your rebate assumption are you assuming that you're going to pay those rebates? Or are you assuming that you're going to make other changes in the market that may get you closer to that MLR minimum? We assume that as we make our decisions around the performance of our business we're working to manage the rebates obviously.
And then we compare it against the thresholds and then we have an expectation of paying rebates where we exceed them.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Boorady with Crédit Suisse.
Thanks.
And I want to congratulate you Steve and the company for maintaining the focus throughout this difficult period of reform.
My question on medical cost expectations.
And you talked about your expectations for utilization to pick up later this year and into 2012.
And I'm just wondering if that's just based on conservatism.
Or do you see evidence beyond the flu of it picking up? And are the assumptions you're using implicit in your rebate accrual the same as the assumptions on your guidance for medical expenses this year? Or can you be conservative in the accrual by assuming utilization doesn't pick up while you're assuming it does pick up for purposes of estimating medical trends? Dan? I had to wrap it all into one question.
Yes it's actually a very good question.
It's fair.
So Charles on the utilization side as we step into this second quarter we do expect utilization to increase most immediately related to -- we don't expect a carry forward of that winter storm season obviously.
And then it's really in the second half of the year that we expect to see that more normal utilization trend emerge.
As we look at both our trends our pricing our involvement and work up our aggregate performance for the year we then determine what our rebate is.
So I would tell you that these factors are all correlated in our determinations and they're fully reflected in our forward guidance.
And it actually relates to the previous question too and again I reaffirm.
Similar to 2010 we continue to see trends moderating and it's moderating in the utilization and not in unit costs.
So while we see those realized and then respond to them appropriately that does not change our forward view of where these costs may ultimately go and that we don't think that these trends are sustainable.
So an actuarial science would be on our side on that.
And accordingly when we think about our product and pricing we think about a more normal trend.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Okay.
Thanks.
I wanted to talk about the Services business this year.
I guess it's not clear to me why the OptumHealth margin outlook is down from the previous guidance.
I mean down year-over-year makes sense given the health parity cost and the mix shift.
But based upon the fact that your commercial membership guidance is higher and the state sponsor I guess is more or less in line I would have thought that that mix shifts would have improved at least versus prior guidance.
And then just kind of following on to that at the Investor Day you gave kind of long-term margin guidance for all the Services businesses that were above where they are today.
And I guess only OptumInsight is better now but the other two are -- I just wonder if we could get some color about it.
About what's going on there particularly in OptumHealth but then just kind of generally in long term in those businesses.
Do you want to take this Mike? Yes.
Thanks Kevin.
I'll take an initial response then I'll hand it over to Dawn Owens for further on OptumHealth.
But as you may recall back at the Investor Conference we did talk about 2011 being a rebate climbing year for several of the businesses within Optum.
A couple of things that have changed since then obviously from the results you'll see that we've exceeded growth expectations which we're very pleased with.
And it's a good start on exceeding our expectations.
But back in that time period we had made an estimate around what the re-baselining some of the changes that we were making between the business segments.
And frankly as we trued those up and got to actuals those did impact OptumHealth's results.
So even though we beat the revenue target and the related operating earnings were generated from that as well it was offset by just the re-baselining that we put through the estimates.
So vis-à-vis what we projected it's obviously a different result.
But we're very confident and pleased with where we stand today.
I'll hand it over to Dawn to talk maybe a little bit about some of the opportunities.
But I would also say Kevin with respect to Optum we showed some pretty significant growth as you noted in OptumInsight and we're excited about that.
In OptumRx we continue to see strong growth but we continue to make investments in that future platform.
So again back to the Investor Day conference we're pretty pleased with early traction that we received.
Dawn you want to add anything to OptumHealth? Sure yes.
I would say carrying on Mike to what you said.
I mean we feel very very good about the growth that we achieved in the quarter.
The external performance on sales growth across the board in our businesses contributed to we believe very strong momentum as we go throughout the year.
Mike explained how that carried through to the earnings and what impacted that.
But we see opportunity not only in our traditional markets and serving sponsors and payers with our total population health solutions but you're starting to see evidence of that coming through and applying those services into the care delivery marketplace and in other new venues for our businesses that really gives us strong momentum as we go throughout the balance of the year and look forward.
I guess this quarter’s kind of consistent with the view that or historical precedent that the top line comes in better than we think but the margins end up coming a little bit lower.
I mean is there a view that kind of 2011 is in fact going to be the trough number and that 2012 we can see stable or improving margins in those 3 business lines? Yes I think what we feel good about again is the early traction.
But as we look to the future we think that you're going to see absolute operating earnings growth and margin expansions throughout our businesses.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of John Rex with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
I just wanted to come back yet again to the med utilization questions.
And so I wonder if you can break down to us in just the major 4 categories in terms of what you're seeing on the utilization trends there which was kind of most surprising versus where you stood a few months ago in your expectation.
And are any of them actually running negative in terms of units consumed? John this is Dan.
On the utilization side I would say that frankly it's down broadly.
It's down across -- down I should say more moderate across all those categories.
If I were to highlight one area in particular I would say inpatient is an area where we've seen more pronounced moderation.
And we actually in some instances are seeing that negative.
From our perspective it's a combination of factors that contribute to that.
Obviously the broader factors around the economy are at play in there.
But also we see the progress we're making from our clinical agenda inside there.
We see it in metrics that aren't influenced by the broader economy.
Things like readmission rate as an example.
And so bed days would be the only one you'd be seeing absolute negative territory though over the 4 main buckets? It certainly varies across the individual businesses within UnitedHealthcare platform and by geography.
But overall it is flat to slightly down.
John this is Gail Boudreaux.
Just a couple of points because I know we're focused on utilization components here.
But I just want to bring us back to as we think about medical cost increases and trend remember that 2/3 of our pressure is really on the unit cost side.
And that intensity has not stopped.
So while we have seen some lower utilization we do expect that utilization to increase as we pace through the course of the year.
The unit cost pressure particularly on the inpatient side I think remains very intense.
And we should continue to think about how we manage through that which we're very focused on.
And that's running in the same area you've been in right in terms of the unit cost on the inpatient side your typical year-over-year? Yes that's correct.
And if you go back to our guidance overall on the unit cost side of that trend it was in the 5% range in total.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ana Gupte with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
My question’s about your recent OptumHealth acquisitions and the outlook for 2011 and going forward as well.
Can you provide some color to us on how that fits into your stated strategy as you expected at the Investor Day what the capital deployment has been? There's been a number of small things that has been done.
And what the revenue and earnings potential are for those? Ana can we clarify are you speaking just of OptumHealth or are you speaking of Optum the Health Services Businesses in total? Inc.</strong> In total.
Well as you know the Health Services platform we've been building and investing in health services for well over a decade.
And throughout that time period we've brought in businesses and capabilities that add to that platform that ultimately can help us achieve what we're trying to with our customers and that is to improve the healthcare system.
And so as we look to the future we continue to believe that acquisitions or strategic acquisitions are going to be a component of that.
Of late you've seen some acquisitions like Inspiris if you will is one of those and that's an area that is targeted around the chronic and sick population and managing those through nurse practitioners and primary care providers dedicated to that population serving multiple different payers in the marketplace.
It's things like that that we've been bringing into the fold that ultimately will fill out the broad capabilities across our Health Services platform.
And I'll remind you that across Optum we serve all constituents.
So it's a very diverse set of capabilities.
Ultimately again with the idea that we can bring services to better the healthcare system and we're going to continue to pursue acquisitions where it makes sense.
Inc.</strong> Just to follow up to get some more color.
Does it seem right to say that you may be moving now more away from data exchange and software support to investing in higher-touch clinical services like you talked about just now either phone-based or primary care selectively in some local markets or broadly speaking? Well I'm going to ask Andy Slavitt the CEO of OptumInsight to answer a portion of that.
But I want to interject with I don't think it's fair to say that.
We're very much invested in use of data and analytics and in connectivity solutions.
One thing that we believe does differentiate us from others in the health services marketplace is we build solutions but we build it from insight from operating from within inside the system.
So whether it's providing care delivery services like within Southwest Medical or just providing nurse practitioner services like we've done for a decade within Evercare all of that instruct the types of solution that we bring to the marketplace.
But Andy do you want to comment on the first part? Sure.
I think Steve revealed the elements of our strategy that are at work in both the organic growth that you're seeing as well as the M&amp;A-related growth.
He talked about helping health communities become connected intelligent aligned and then allowing them to factor in the human element by managing the health of the population.
We think there's a demand and a need in many of the markets we serve for all of those capabilities.
And so we are seeing strong performance from the acquisitions that you referred to in the last part of last year.
But also I think as Steve said that’s because of the fact that the portfolio as a whole strengthens any individual offering in what we’re able to bring to the market.
So this is a strategy that as Mike said will have some of the M&amp;A continue to be in the portfolio.
But it will really be to enable that strategy that Steve and Mike laid out.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
If I would just -- I think -- to your question I think we have 2 investable platforms that you're referring to.
We'll continue to be interested in technology and information.
And we are increasingly seeing how that enables our ability to actually engage in the more integrated clinical care activities and more effectively.
So we really have a pretty virtuous situation where we can invest in both and they strengthen each other and the acquisitions that have been made have been strong performers.
So we're very pleased with the ones that occurred last year.
And we’ll continue to build this business.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for taking my question.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
So I just want to ask about the pricing environment here and particularly in light of the entire industry adapting to the new MLR minimum MLR rules coupled with the buildup of surplus at some of the not-for-profit plans as well related to that the lower trend experience.
What are you seeing broadly in terms of pricing across your different markets? And how variated is it? Matt this is Gail Boudreaux.
We see the market as remaining competitive and rational.
Plans are raising premiums based on what they see as their underlying escalation in medical costs.
And that has remained consistent as we've talked about on these calls.
As I've mentioned on several of the calls we do see certain instances in a few markets where in a couple of key situations where there is some aggressive action but it is not any kind of a trend or anything that is a wholesale pricing philosophy or change.
So I think that makes it a very rational market.
The other thing I just think we should all consider too is that as plans have to invest in order to be compliant with all the regulatory changes.
So they've got some significant capital expenditures coming through HIPAA 5010 as well as ICD-10.
And so I think that's a factor as well.
As we think about our own pricing we remain very consistent.
We price to our forward view of cost and that's really driven by our expectation of where we see utilization and unit cost trending.
So that has been very consistent.
All right great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks.
Wondering if you can give us an update on your thoughts here on the Medco contract just relative to your target of growing the PBM.
And then also maybe an update on the TRICARE West protest and whether you have any increasing confidence that you might be positioned to win that business after the appeal was sustained? I'll comment on Medco and I'll have Gail comment on TRICARE.
But the answer is really no different than we have offered in the last couple of exchanges.
We’ve been as we've said before well served by Medco and continue to be strong partner.
Our OptumRx business continues to grow and has grown nicely from an external business point of view.
Its capabilities continue to become enriched and are robust.
They’re very strong in specialty pharma et cetera.
And so we really have a lot of positive options in front of us.
I will say that we will basically set a definitive direction over the course of this year given the time frame of the Medco relationship.
But we're really well served at the moment and have a variety of options in front of us and feel very good about how we are using those resources for our businesses and for our customers.
So I wouldn't suggest that we're offering any new direction to you at this time.
And TRICARE...
Sure.
Scott I think as you noted on April 6 the Department of Defense upheld our protest of their July 2009 West Region TRICARE contract that they awarded to the incumbent administrator.
They have indicated to us that they will be updating their solicitation of the contract.
As you know this is distinct from our ongoing protest around the award in the South Region as well.
We believe that we have a superior proposal and we look forward to demonstrating that as part of this protest process because we think that we can bring real value to the beneficiary in this area.
And the Logistics Health acquisition that you just did is that part of trying to position even better for the TRICARE bid or is that a separate strategy in terms of just increasing your military health and sort of in wellness and services capabilities more broadly? Scott this is Dawn Owens.
Logistics Health or LHI will become upon close a part of OptumHealth.
And we really see it as a platform that allows us to take our population health solutions and apply them to a very important part of our constituency base the military service men and women of our country.
They provide very specialized services related to pre and post deployment that we think we are a natural complement to and are excited about their inclusion in the overall Optum services portfolio.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Thanks.
Another angle on utilization which is if you've got any data that shows you historically that when utilization does come back if it shows up first within different areas of the commercial market.
So as an example is it right to think that you see utilization come back first in large group accounts and then it's a little slower to respond in individual? And then secondarily if you've got an updated estimate in your commercial loss ratio for this year.
Hi Carl this is Dan.
In terms of how utilization emerges I would suggest that there isn't any particular difference across either geographic category or by customer segment frankly.
It comes back broadly and it leaves broadly and comes back broadly.
With respect to the loss ratio we now expect our full year loss ratio on the heels of a combination of our Q1 favorable development our lower utilization and then obviously that's partially offset by our higher rebate estimates.
We now expect that to be 82% plus or minus 50 basis points.
So we're down about 170 basis points from our Investor Day guidance.
I think one thing I'd like to note is as you look at that difference 40 basis points of it is simply just adding in our Specialty business and then the balance is really those other factors.
So starting from the first quarter and then thinking about how it progresses over the balance of the year obviously we don't expect any further impact of the winter storms.
We don't expect further favorable development.
We do expect the normal wear-off pattern of our deductible.
And then we expect a return to more normal utilization over the balance of the year.
Those are the things that are coming together to inform that 82% guidance.
Got it.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Christine Arnold with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> Clarifying question on the trend here.
Excluding places where you saw winter storms so presumably Arizona California some other places.
Florida didn't have storms.
Was utilization up or is it up excluding the winter storm effects? I'm just trying to clarifying whether you're seeing it or whether you're building in something you think you'll see.
And did you see in-group growth or attrition in the first quarter? Christine this is Dan.
On the utilization side we did see utilization up just more modestly than we would have expected outside of the storms.
On the attrition I'll turn to Gail.
Sure Christine.
One of the challenges actually of identify and segregating it we did see attrition in the first quarter of this year.
But it was down from last year.
We also though as you know had extremely strong overall enrollment growth across all of our Benefits platform.
And particularly the almost 800 000 new consumers we're serving in the commercial market.
Inside of that we had very strong open enrollment results particularly in our self-funded national account business and that contributed.
So when you try to segregate attrition we still expect attrition to be a factor to this year particularly in our self-funded business as you look at our guidance going out for the rest of the year.
However our strong service platform I think the products we put in market and the value that we offered our customers was clear in our open enrollment where we gained a lot of in-group members versus our competitors.
LLC</strong> So excluding storms were bed days up? Bed days excluding storms were flat to slightly down depending on the geography.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush.
Thank you.
I wanted to go back to the topic of capital deployment.
As part of the recent WellMed acquisition you obtained some point-of-care facilities or clinics in Florida and Texas.
And I also saw that you're funding some clinic development or expansion in California.
And I was hoping you could talk a little bit about your long-term strategy as far as your point-of-care presence goes both in clinics and/or ACOs.
I'll let Mike address this.
But I would not describe any of these kinds of activities as particularly new.
We have been in the clinical care activities particularly around integrated models in various ways in markets for quite some time.
And as we continue to advance our services business it's very natural for us to pursue opportunities in markets where we see the potential the kind of solutions that we can bring or offer value.
Mike do you want to comment about specific activities? Well I'm not sure that I have a lot else to add other than as Steve said we've been in the delivery business for some time.
We have a broad range of services.
We seek to bring capabilities and integrated solutions into the care delivery marketplace whether we're serving them and partnering with them or in fact allocating capital ultimately to the same end-state.
And that is to create a more sustainable more affordable and high-quality community.
And as Andy stated earlier we have fundamental beliefs that there are some core attributes around those sustainable communities and that is they’re connected intelligent and aligned.
And we bring all of our capabilities to bear to achieve just that.
Whether we're partnering or investing in or somewhat neutral to we're ultimately seeking the same end-state as I said and that is to achieve a better outcome in the communities that we serve.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> Thanks.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a confirming question here.
Is the $0.15 from Penn Treaty was that in the original guidance of $3.50 to $3.70? Dave do you want to comment? No the Penn Treaty estimate of $0.12 to $0.15 was not in the original estimate.
And it has been included in the revised guidance that we gave you today.
LLLP</strong> Thanks.
And then just real quickly on some of the accounting for the MLR.
Is it right to assume that PPD on an absolute basis -- when we see that start to decrease I know you're not assuming it in your guidance.
But assuming that any favorable development may get rebated away is it correct to assume that over time -- sort of you've reported $440 million this quarter that that would become -- that should go down? Chris this is Dan.
I wouldn't read anything into development versus rebate.
At the end of the day from a reserve standpoint we have a very comprehensive and consistent process and that remains unchanged.
So at the end of each quarter we determine our best estimate of the ultimate claims in [indiscernible] and we do not have any expectation of development forward.
In terms of why we've seen some of it particularly in the second half of last year and into the first quarter this year obviously we had more moderate utilization and that showed up in the second half of last year and carried into the first.
And we also saw an improvement in the time of claims submission.
And that acceleration also contributed to our development.
LLLP</strong> Good.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Coffina with MorningStar.
I just wanted to follow up on the Medco question.
So could you tell me anything about where your capacity utilization is currently in the PBM? And sort of what incremental cost would be involved if you did decide to bring that business in-house? We've said this before and I'll have Bill Munsell confirm if I'm wrong.
We have substantial capacity and we have made investments over the last 2 years that continue to strengthen our OptumRx platform.
I think we have virtually the full range of motion in that that exists today.
And we have meaningful capacity.
Is that -- Bill? Steve I don't know what else I could add to that other than and we've actually said this on the call too we continue to invest in the capabilities of OptumRx so that we have the flexibility depending on what we ultimately decide we want to do.
Yes.
Some of that is in the building conversation that we've been having around Optum in total.
So that is unchanged though.
That is not new.
We have been in that mode for about 2 years now.
But I can interpret that as meaning that you wouldn't incur any incremental cost bringing that business in-house? No we have been building the platform.
So we have been incurring those costs.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Simpson with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just on the issue of inpatient pricing.
It sounds like utilization there remains dampened and the price trend’s still an issue.
What are the strategies of the company looking out over the next 12 to 24 months to deal with that issue? And maybe just if you could give us color on what you hear from employers in terms of their willingness to consider more narrow network-based products.
Just any color you have around that will be great.
This is Gail.
I think first we’d put overall hospital environment into context.
Hospitals are clearly feeling the pressure and the burden of low cost reimbursement from Medicare and Medicaid and that has put pressure certainly on their commercial reimbursement.
We look at -- as we said a few moments ago we look at overall medical trends.
It's the unit cost side and it's the in-patient aspect that has the most pressure.
Our strategies are really a couple.
We are really focusing our future reimbursements on paying for performance trying to get away from just unit costs increases.
But moving to more pay-for-value as a way to mitigate that.
And we have been doing that now for the last several years and it's an ongoing strategy.
In terms of employers as we look at our growth over 2010 and into 2011 we are seeing very strong response from them around programs that do have some narrow network components.
We're looking for any way to have affordability.
So I think it's a bit of a mix depending on the size of the client but there is interest in value-based performance network and that's part of our contracting strategy with hospitals and physicians as well as how we're working with employers.
Okay.
And then maybe just a follow-up.
When we think about G&amp;A over the balance of the year there's some cross currents with the Optum investments in the ASO growth but then you've got -- as well as the branding.
But then in the quarter it came in a little light of expectations.
How should we think about kind of the seasonality over the balance of the year as compared with last year? Should it look similar or are there reasons why it would deviate? Doug just answering that question across UnitedHealth Group.
Our operating costs tend to trend higher throughout the year generally higher in Q4.
As you know that's the AAP period for Medicare.
Sure.
And then we're doing all of our preparations for our seasonality in the early – during the winter period and whatnot.
So generally we're hiring Q4 and Q2 and 3 generally average out to be closer to full year average.
Although I will remind you that in this instance we expect the Penn Treaty assessment to land in Q2.
It may slip to Q3 depending upon when the court rules.
But again that's a $250 million assessment.
About 100 basis points of operating cost during that time period.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Can you go through a little bit more about your date and claims payable and the drop there.
Historically you suggested that you pay claims when they're due.
Is this a change in your payment policy? Or is there something else that's causing the dates of claims payable to drop? And then what do you expect to happen going forward? It's a good question Peter.
It's Dave Wichmann again.
It doesn't have anything to do with the pace upon which we’re paying claims.
It has more to do with the pace on which claims are being submitted by physicians.
And this is in part due to the strategies we have across our business to enhance EDI submission because that has a tendency to reduce manual handling and therefore errors as part of that.
So we're receiving claims about 2 days faster now than we did this time last year.
The other day that was lost is about -- it relates to the way in which the Health Net transaction was recorded.
So it elevated the days in 2010 as a result.
But no changes in terms of the payment practices only in terms of submission rates from physicians and the hospitals.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Baker with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
I was wondering if you could comment on how the Medicaid RFPs are shaping up relative to expectations.
Which geographies we should anticipate United being focused in on and then what your longer-term margin expectation is for that business.
Let me just provide a couple of overall comments because I think you hit it.
There's a lot of opportunity right now in the pipeline for Medicaid.
We think we are extremely well positioned given the breadth and scope of our business and are excited about the opportunity to respond to that.
So I'll ask Jack Larsen our CEO of Community and State to give you some more specifics on what we're seeing in the market and your other questions.
Thanks Gail.
Michael I was hoping this question did come up.
We've been talking about the numbers of RFPs and the size of the pipeline now for several quarters and you're right there is a lot of activity right now.
I guess the way I would think about it is that what we have seen in the RFPs is pretty much what we had expected over our discussions in the last several months and quarters with our state partners.
I think they're shaping up quite well.
I think you can count on us to take a good hard look at all of the RFPs that are there and we're going to be very aggressive where we think we're well positioned to serve both eligible beneficiaries as well as our states.
Short of that I'm really not in a position to comment on particular strategies or particular states that we're going to participate in.
Inc.</strong> How about in terms of outlook for margins longer-term.
Obviously a number of favorable dynamics happening today.
Yes I think the outlook for margins longer term clearly the state fiscal situation is going to be a very difficult thing for them to contend with over the next year to two.
So the rate environment will tend to be a little bit turbulent.
I would say I would expect margins going forward to probably have some compression at the care ratio level.
But I think we're well positioned to do a very good job for our states with respect to managing our administrative cost and also get to work on some of the elements of acute cost through our various medical care management programs.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for the update.
I think it reflects the strong leverage in that business.
So thank you for your questions and for spending time with us this morning.
Maybe just a couple of wrap-up thoughts.
We started 2011 with good momentum.
But we remain very aware of the challenges that may arise during the balance of the year.
I think this performance momentum reflects our continued focus on fundamental execution commitment to high levels of service practical innovations that are meaningful to our customers and an emphasis on building relationships.
We believe this approach will serve us well and we think we have 2 great platforms well defined to pursue opportunities in the marketplace with Optum and UnitedHealthcare.
We're grateful to serve the many people that we do and we are sensitive to responsibilities that it represents.
And we thank you for your attention this morning.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the UnitedHealth Group Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This call and its contents are the property of UnitedHealth Group.
Any use copying or distribution without written permission from UnitedHealth Group is strictly prohibited.
Here are some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
Federal Securities Laws.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
Information presented on this call is in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated July 19 2011 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of Unitedhealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to review second quarter results.
Across this company we continue to focus on fundamental execution.
For us this means consistently serving customers and other stakeholders with excellent and with practical solutions-focused innovation.
Improving fundamental execution is far from glamorous it's blocking and tackling that take years to accomplish in incremental steps and its never really fully finished.
Today market and customer satisfaction and other reputational measures for both our UnitedHealthcare and Optum businesses are at strong levels.
In many instances market-leading based on credible independent sources.
While we are grateful for any and all market-based recognitions we also know we are not yet where we want or need to be.
Society is looking for innovative organizations that could be trusted to provide consistent reliable and modern approaches to solving the challenges of healthcare whether that means constructive approach to participating in health benefit or information exchanges developing ACOs or providing innovative consumer-centric benefit offering.
In any context we understand a positive reputation will become increasingly valuable our commitments to practical innovation deeper relationships with the people we serve and strong follow-through on our brand and reputational promises are strengthening our businesses.
The work required to accomplish this brought growth and market share gains to the first half of 2011.
Second quarter revenues again exceeded $25 billion increasing $2 billion or 8.5% year-over-year.
Growth was led by service revenues which increased 17% from last year's second quarter driven by growth in Health Services products and strong and consistent gains in fee offering in the health benefit businesses.
Operating margins of 8.3% were stable year-over-year improving 10 basis points despite the impact of health reform including significant cost for readiness and compliance and the advent of minimum care ratio thresholds.
Overall revenue growth in higher margin service offerings was offset by investments within the Optum services businesses as we continue to re-baseline that platform for higher growth and earnings contributions going forward.
In total second quarter net earnings grew 17% year-over-year to $1.16 per share.
These earnings were supported by strong cash flows from operations of $1.2 billion.
UnitedHealthcare's 3 businesses added more than 180 000 people using its medical benefit products in the second quarter.
It grew in every major product category despite the fact that the benefits marketplace typically has fewer new business opportunities in the second quarter.
In the first half of 2011 the number of people UnitedHealthcare serves with medical benefits grew by 1.2 million on top of nearly 1 million people added over the course of 2010.
This 6-quarter addition of 2.2 million more people almost entirely through organic means places this among the strongest growth periods for our company.
Growth was led by the employer and individual business which grew by 100 000 people in the quarter and contributed nicely to the nearly 900 000 person increase in the past 6 months a growth of 1.1 million people year-over-year.
Customer retention rates improved in 2011 in both the fully-insured and self-funded offering.
We performed well in national account open enrollments this past January when employees who have multiple health plans available to them chose UnitedHealthcare more often this year.
Based on first half 2011 results we're increasing our full year outlook for fee-based commercial growth by 100 000 people to a range of 650 000 to 750 000 people for the year.
Both UnitedHealthcare Community &amp; State and the UnitedHealthcare Medicare &amp; Retirement have had strong growth as well.
These businesses increased by 80 000 people this quarter and 315 000 people in the past 6 months plus another 250 000 people in stand-alone Part D plan in the past 6 months.
We grew by 20 000 people in Medicare Advantage products this quarter and have added 115 000 people through the first half of the year.
Even after absorbing the first quarter decrease of 225 000 people from market and product exits and programs that were not sufficiently funded or were fully discontinued by federal regulation.
Our Medicaid business grew by 40 000 people in the quarter and is tracking for the sizable year-over-year increase of 225 000 people in 2011 despite state's heightening eligibility criteria in the wake of decreases in federal matching dollars for their programs.
Overall medical cost trends through the first half of 2011 remain moderated in part due to lower growth in consumption across the system and in part because our effective targeted efforts demands the total cost to health benefits.
Though it is important to note that unit cost increases continue to be significant in fact the single most important cost driver we expect a return toward somewhat more normal utilization trends in the second half of this year and into 2012.
Our second half 2011 outlook factors in more challenging year-over-year comparisons in both utilization and reserve development.
Our consolidated care ratio of 81.4% decreased 10 basis points from last year's second quarter as the commercial medical care ratio decreased 120 basis points year-over-year.
Second quarter 2011 reflects $180 million in overall reserve development down from $270 million in the second quarter of 2010.
In summary diversified growth performance across our health benefits platform coupled with effective cost management helped UnitedHealthcare grow earnings from operations by nearly $200 million year-over-year to $1 760 000 000.
This came despite a lower level of reserve development than in 2010 second quarter and the implementation of medical care ratio regulation this year.
We expect pressure on UnitedHealthcare's gross margin percentage in the second half of 2010 and into 2012 due to increasing rate pressure from government customers and more normal overall utilization trends.
UnitedHealthcare Community &amp; State is now receiving annual rate adjustments from the majority of its members.
Those rate increases are proving to be lower than we had expected and in some situations even negative.
While states will typically adjust care provider fee schedules to reduce unit costs as well the low reimbursement rates still impact the medical care ratio.
UnitedHealthcare has some long-standing leverage to use in mitigating these overall pressures.
These include stronger clinical engagements and medical cost management efforts disciplined operating expense management process and technological modernization and related productivity and scale efficiency.
In our Optum businesses we continued to develop and strengthen our position in areas of rising importance to the health system largely themed around comprehensive population health management as well as modernizing and better integrating healthcare delivery and financing.
And as I'm sure you noted earlier this month Larry Renfro now leads Optum as Chief Executive Officer.
Larry's experiences in healthcare technology services and financial services across all ranges of business development and scale will be invaluable as we advance our Optum services platform.
Our strategy and direction in Optum remains consistent and Larry has hit the ground running.
In the second quarter Optum's total revenues of $7 billion increased 19% year-over-year bringing first half 2011 revenues to $13.8 billion up 20%.
Second quarter revenues increased 12% at OptumRx 24% at OptumInsight and 46% at OptumHealth.
OptumRx increased revenues by growing the number of customers served by 1.8 million people year-over-year including more than 850 000 from new external business.
OptumRx revenue growth also reflects a greater mix in specialty drugs which carry much higher revenue per script.
OptumInsight had a strong sales quarter with momentum in serving both payer and provider markets.
Many of the growth drivers emerge from the market changes created by health legislation.
They include customer needs in the areas of advanced computer-assisted coding ACO development quality SAR rating and compliance-related services.
OptumInsight's sales bookings growth of 106% and backlog increased to 60% year-over-year in the second quarter further improved revenue visibility and confidence.
OptumHealth second quarter revenue performance was driven by strong and diverse growth.
This includes growth in services for payers and expansion of Clinical Care Services.
Optum's earnings from operations were just slightly stronger than we expected increasing $4 million year-over-year in the quarter.
These results continue to reflect 2011 efforts to align and re-baseline these businesses and position them for further earnings growth.
OptumInsight provided strong earnings again this quarter with year-over-year growth in operating earnings of 45%.
OptumInsight expanded its operating margin by nearly 2 percentage points through improvements in mix of product lines and customers.
OptumRx earnings decreased by $16 million year-over-year and OptumHealth's earnings decreased $7 million.
However OptumHealth's performance was better than expected due to a combination of results from a performance-based contracts and the earnings contribution from stronger-than-expected top line performance.
OptumHealth earnings are expected to step down from here to a lower level for the second half of the year consistent with the re-baselining and reinvestment themes set forth in our previous 2011 full year outlook for the business.
In total the Optum results show increasing business momentum that is indicative of the traction our capabilities are gaining in the market across care providers payers including the government employers and other participants in the healthcare system.
As we look to 2012 and beyond our businesses broadly addressed the expanding needs of the health system from healthcare coverage to services that improve the overall health of population to services that modernize and integrate across the system.
As a single company with 2 independently-managed business platforms we draw on core competencies in data technology and clinical expertise.
We are uniquely positioned to help resolve vital issues such as care quality affordability access the effective application of health data and information connectivity better consumer and care provider decision making at the point-of-care incentives for a better performing health system and healthier lifestyles in compliance with evidence-based medical treatment.
We take a total systems view of the health economy and pursue solutions through all logical channels with the goal of improving the way the system performs for people and how effectively people use that system.
UnitedHealthcare serves benefit customers and Optum serves the broader health marketplace including care providers and payers.
UnitedHealthcare provides tremendous scale size and market diversity that cannot be found elsewhere.
And in turn allows Optum to quickly pilot perfect scale up and more rapidly commercialize new offerings across a broad client base and population.
For example in post-acute care delivery OptumHealth arranges for nurses and nurse practitioners to support Primary Care physician in serving the needs of chronically-ill patients with complex medical conditions.
OptumHealth's post-acute care services are deployed nationally but more important by more than 20 health plan customers including UnitedHealthcare.
In Maricopa County there is a competitive set of hospital systems and primary care resources as well as specialized physician practices.
UnitedHealthcare has significant Medicare Advantage business in this market and asked OptumHealth to develop a delegated care model that will improve quality and cost for its Medicare members.
OptumHealth responded with the Lifeprint Clinic the Lifeprint contracted care network which includes over 500 primary care physicians in more than 200 physician practices.
UnitedHealthcare's membership and community presence coupled with Optum's data technology and care delivery experience were all critical to the launch of this model this past January.
But more significant Lifeprint overall market goal is to serve the broad Maricopa County population to populations with other health plans in that market.
Across the state the Tucson Medical Center was looking to reconsider its infrastructure and processes so it can deliver more effective services to its community.
They selected Optum to help them build a market-based accountable care structure our resources will serve the Tucson Medical Center benefit UnitedHealthcare customers through UnitedHealthcare's participation in that market and become available to other health clients in that market.
This arrangement will help make healthcare more sustainable across the Tucson Community.
Each of these examples draws on our experience in coordinating clinical resources and services our leading technology and access to actionable data and information.
Together they illustrate our comprehensive health system strategy with our capabilities leveraged for the benefit of all the constituencies in the health system: Patients physicians hospitals employers and other payers including government payers.
While we expect UnitedHealthcare to perform as the leader in the payer community the multi-payer nature of the system means that our health systems solutions from Optum are much broader than the need of UnitedHealthcare alone.
Looking into the future we believe the healthcare market will evolve from fee-for-service to fee-for-value or pay-for-performance in a multitude of way shapes and forms.
To do that modern benefits designs and related services will become more connected and integrated.
They will ultimately flow more closely together from the consumers providers payers and systems perspective.
Our 2 platforms are ideally positioned to help lead the way.
Now returning to financial and operating performance.
Today we are increasing our outlook for full-year 2011 financial results based on continued momentum and solid performance in the first half of the year.
We expect revenue growth of more than 7% year-over-year which brings revenues to $101 billion in 2011.
With the higher revenue outlook solid margins in the first half of the year and a projected 2 percentage point reduction in tax rate from the second half of 2011 we estimate full year earnings in a range of $4.15 to $4.25 per share.
We project cash flows from operations of more than $6 billion.
This view reflects our caution about gross margin in the second half of 2011 but also includes our estimate of our pro rata share of the policyholder claims of the potentially insolvent Penn Treaty a long-term care insurance concern with which we have no affiliation.
While we forecast these expenses in the fourth quarter we of course have no ability to control the court's timing or process.
In conclusion we're delivering solid fundamental execution for our customers both within each of our business platforms and on a cross-platform basis.
We are gaining market share.
We continue to invest in practical innovation and distinctive branding.
From our shareholders perspective the results of these efforts is strong and sustainable revenue growth solid margins and consistent cash flows.
At the same time we're fulfilling our broader mission to both help people live healthier lives and make the healthcare system work better for everyone.
We'll offer more discussion and examples at our Annual Investor Conference which will be held in New York City on Tuesday November 29.
We also expect to provide color on our expectations for 2012 at that time.
We're interested in your questions this morning.
As usual there will be one question per person so we can speak with as many of you as possible.
I will now turn this call back to our moderator for your questions.
And again thank you for joining us this morning.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
I guess I just want to talk a little bit I know you're going to sort of start to stay away it sounds like you're going to stay away from 2012 guidance.
But maybe you could tell us sort of a 2 quarter -- are there any changes to your long-term expectations? Anything that we should think about in terms of big deviations from your long-term guidance? And then more specifically I guess we're getting into the National Accounts selling season and maybe if you can give us a little color as to expectations for 1/1/2012 and maybe relative to how well you did this year? Sure.
I'll kind of thematically respond to your first question Josh and then I'll ask Gail to kind of comment on the National Accounts outlook.
I would say there really isn't anything that I would offer as being a radical departure from our approach to our business or our markets.
I actually think that the steps we've taken over the course of the last let's say more than a year of coming into the focus on fundamental execution the commitment to innovation a stronger and more expansive view of our culture are all elements that are going to continue to mature and grow within our enterprise.
We remain very focused and disciplined with respect to our businesses and like the balance we're striking relative to the orientations of local market engagements.
And we're positive about 2012 in terms of our outlook.
We expect to grow in terms of the number of people we serve and we expect to grow in terms of the performance improvements of our performance serving customers.
So I believe there are a lot of approaches that we've taken for 2010 and '11 will apply again in 2012.
We'll consider to be a continuing challenging environment from an economic point of view from a rate pressure point of view in terms of Medicare and Medicaid rates regulatory pressures that I think you all can appreciate the challenges in the marketplace and we continue to I think approach those challenges and have been successful to date and expect to continue to be.
Gail you want to comment on national business? Sure.
This is Gail Boudreaux.
As you know we've had a certain very strong selling season in National Accounts this year and we are pleased with what's happening as we expect 2012 to also grow.
It's still early.
We're still in the middle of the process.
Got a very strong value proposition as we think about our service results we're going into this year with really good service results.
I think offering clients a very good clinical proposition as well as our consumer engagement strategies are taking hold.
As we look at our current results when we think about 2012 one of the positive signs is that customer retention has been strong this year and we expect that to continue and we expect to continue to expand our footprint in the accounts that we do have.
As we look at new business opportunities as has been the case in the past many of those are staying with their incumbents although again a very good time for us is that we're expanding our footprint.
So again early but a sign of what -- we'll see growth in 2012.
And just a follow-up Steve just so I make sure I understood.
You guys have talked about a low-teens earnings per share growth rate long term.
There was nothing in your commentary that made me think that 2012 was different than the long term.
Am I reading too much into that? No I think you read it correct Josh.
Your next question comes from the line of John Rex with JPMorgan.
Just want to go to more color in what you're seeing in med utilization.
I mean I think your commentary was it's much the same.
But I guess what I was looking for is looking across your different lines the major lines commercial Medicare Advantage Medicaid.
Are you seeing any divergence in the utilization patterns from what you've been seeing over the last 6 months or are those all running similarly? I think Dan Schumacher can respond pretty well on this.
Let me talk about commercial first and then I'll compare and contrast that to the government businesses.
But I think it's important to remind everyone as Steve made in his prepared remarks that as we look at our overall cost trend the unit cost component is by far the greatest driver of our cost increases year in and year out.
And we continue to see significant pressure there and it's an area of intense focus for us.
So in terms of the overall cost trend it's really the unit cost.
Stepping into the utilization specifically in the first half of the year we did see in the commercial business an increase in our utilization trend and that was higher than what we saw in 2010 but still lower than what we have seen historically.
And as we look at the second half of the year our expectations that we're going to see an increase again in that utilization trend in part due to the lower comparison period in 2010.
So as you look at 2010 the most restrained and moderate utilization came in the second half.
But then on top of that we expect consumption levels to increase on a more normal seasonal pattern as well as the wear-off of our deductible.
So as you look at the commercial space overall we still expect our trend to be in the 6.5% plus or minus 50 range that we guided to last quarter although we would expect to be trending towards the lower-end of that range.
As you compare that to the government businesses similarly in those businesses in the first half of the year we did see an increase in the utilization trend over 2010.
And it was actually a little bit higher than what we saw in the commercial business.
But again as you look across UnitedHealthcare it was lower than historical patterns.
Okay.
And just your utilization overall you've comment before you're -- at least on the bed day component you're still running flat to slightly down on that is that correct? Yes that's fair.
If you think about the components around utilization I would suggest that the places where we've seen more increases really in the outpatient and physician settings and our in-patient has remained relatively restrained.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
I'm wondering if you can provide an initial assessment on the exchange regulations that were recently released by CMS and now after having a chance to review those regs how you're viewing the overall market opportunity for the exchanges? Yes.
Maybe I'll start out just by setting some guidelines.
Given the fact that they've just come out and there is a comment period we're not going to comment at very specific levels with respect to the -- those regs.
We will kind of offer kind of a restatement of the things that we're looking for that I think would be important as those -- that original guidance is ultimately formed into regulations.
And Gail you want to take that up? Sure Scott.
As Steve said we've been very engaged constructively engaged in both the state and the federal level in providing input around the exchanges and we are planning to provide comment as part of this process as part of the proposal we're making.
I think you know that there are also more regulation still to come out so we're sort of in the middle of that process.
What's important though in terms of the guidelines as we think about the development of the exchanges is one that they should -- we think they should be set up in a manner that recognizes healthcare is local and provides states with some significant flexibility in how to structure them based on the market dynamics.
We also think that it's important that they provide opportunity in the market so that there's competition choice and innovation that's incented as part of the design.
And finally I think having a level playing field that's a critical part of the exchange.
We said this a few times that we see opportunity in the exchanges but the level playing field component's important as the states begin to adapt their rules around exchanges.
And are the risk adjustment proposals that they've laid out do you think those will be sufficient? And do you think a reasonable way to think about this is that they're essentially leveraging some of the structures that they've used in Part D in Medicare Advantage? Or do you see differences in the approach around risk adjustment and with some of the risk corridors they're proposing? In terms of the risk adjustment clearly they're looking at how they structure that in the Medicare space.
We -- there's a lot of opportunities to look at that across the commercial space as well and we would want to ensure that they're fair and actually sound practices so also providing guidance on that.
Again we're in the process of comments and we'll be providing comments in that as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Justin Lake with UBS.
My question is on the OptumHealth business.
And obviously you've talked about making a fair amount of investments here that have depressed margins a bit.
But at last year's Investor Day you've laid out a case for margin improvement over time and getting back to target margins would be significantly accretive to earnings.
I'm just curious if you can give us an update there in terms of we're now 6 to 9 months past that you've made these investments.
Just in terms of how you see that performance kind of trending over the next couple of years and when do you expect to get to those target margins you kind of laid out at the Investor Day? Sure.
Again I'll kind of layout kind of overall themes and then ask the team to pick it up.
But if you stand back and look at Optum we are committed to advancing that as a more integrated platform at the beginning of this year.
We've taken steps such as the divestiture of the CRO.
We have realigned portions of our business between UnitedHealthcare and Optum and made adjustments accordingly for that.
And we've said that we would be making investments not only in new businesses that we think have value but also in strengthening the performance of the businesses that we have.
And I think those things have gone exceptionally well.
The emergence of this platform I think is very positive and we are very positive about the margin performance.
We said this was going to be a baseline year and we're going to execute to that.
We think we'll be -- through the majority of it this year there'll be some activity that will particularly with respect to OptumRx that will pull into next year.
But John do you want to pick that up? Sure.
It's John Penshorn.
I just want to respond add on to what Steve has said.
I think we've seen very good market response to our business platforms we've seen very good growth.
As Steve mentioned we continue investing in our platform that investment is affecting our short-term operating margin.
As we've said in the Investor Day 2011 is a baseline year.
We expect strong operating earnings in 2012 with operating margin expansion.
And we're very comfortable with our long-term operating outlook that we set for our 2 businesses.
And what's the definition of longer-term? And also if you could just throw us any commentary you might have on the PBM and the make-whole relationships specifically? I know people would be interested in? Okay.
Well that's a slightly different subject but I'll respond.
We expect obviously see comp improvements in 2012 and we expect to build from there.
So we meant 2011 to be a baseline year and I think you'll see 2012 will prove that out.
In terms of the PBM our positioning there has really not changed.
OptumRx continues to serve us very well.
All of our government programs our specialty pharma and increasingly external commercial customers and Medco also continues to serve us well.
And as we've said consistently we are assessing our options and our opportunities knowing that we can serve our customers as well as our shareholders well really in either direction.
And we are really addressing the nature of that Medco relationship.
That really won't occur until later this year.
And the contract doesn't expire until January of 2013.
So really our position with respect to our PBM is unchanged.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
I wanted to ask you about rebates.
You've commented a couple of times about gross margin compression in the second half on higher trend and government rate pressure.
But I guess I didn't hear anything about rebates how those impact numbers seasonality how should we think about that? And then also any color on how rebates are impacting your thoughts about pricing or how about your competitors are thinking about repricing their books any indication there? Dan go on.
Sure.
Kevin let me take the seasonality fees and how we think about rebates.
At the end of the day our rebates are based on a full year earnings outlook and then it's staged in by quarter based on the percentage of revenue that falls into each quarter.
So it's essentially pretty close to linear.
So there's no seasonal impact on our results related to our rebate determination.
In terms of pricing I might turn that to Jeff Alter to talk about what we're seeing in the market.
Thanks Kevin.
This is Jeff Alter.
We're not seeing a lot of widespread evidence of people making pricing adjustments due to their rebate.
There are pockets here and there of fully insured pricing that I'll say are a little more competitive than other years which could be competitors adjusting to their loss ratio.
And if it is we believe it will be pretty short-lived in duration.
As we've said before there's a lot of investments ahead ICD-10 and other regulatory compliance.
So we believe that our competitors are taking a rational approach to their reserves and to their pricing.
And we continue to remain disciplined in our pricing pricing to our trend.
Okay just to clarify when you talk about the gross margin compression it sounds like on the commercial side it's more normal return to utilization than real pricing pressure.
But on the government side there's some -- there's equal trend and pricing pressures is that the way to think about it? Yes that's fair.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Carroll with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just a bit more clarification on the 2012 pricing comments.
I guess how should we think about 2012 premium pricing given the prolonged lower utilization that we've been seeing here over the last several quarters? In particular do you expect more I guess what I would call coordinated pushbacks from states on commercial premium increases into next year? Gail? This is Gail Boudreaux.
I think to get sort of round-off conversation we're having on our pricing.
Our approach our fundamental approach and discipline in pricing hasn't changed and so we are always pricing to what we believe our forward view of costs are.
So just taking a sort of walk through the components we start with what we believe is the forward dealer trend is adjust for products change in geography as well as market segment.
And then we essentially take a look at using our local market knowledge the medical loss ratio of threshold where we believe that prices should be.
In terms of your second part of your question around the state what we're seeing at the states really vary by state to state.
And I think what's fundamentally important is we build up our rates based on a actuarially sound process and that's how we file our rates.
And when we go to the states to talk about those rates making sure that it's based on that process as well as the forward view of cost is what's important.
And that's the discussion that we've been having with the states as part of this process now.
Your next question comes from the line of Christine Arnold with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions.
You're recognizing that this is a year of investment spending and your long-term target has been 20 to 40 basis point of SG&amp;A improvement.
Is it reasonable to think that we start to see that next year? And then is it possible to put parameters around kind of what you're thinking on the commercial MLR? I think you were saying 82 plus or minus 50 basis points last quarter is that still reasonable? Well maybe I'll have Dave respond to the cost question and Dan to the care ratio.
It's Dave.
What you're seeing in our numbers Christine is a significant a pretty significant shift in the mix of our business towards the services business as well as self-funded.
And that mix shift is what's contributing to the increase in the operating cost ratio in the period.
And in fact if you look at the benefits business independently you'd find that there's a 50-basis point reduction in the operating cost ratio for that business.
And that has largely contributed to by virtue of the things that we've been discussing in the past which is the significant improvements that we've made and the quality of our service which I believe is reflected both internally with much lower defect rates on our claims much higher satisfaction levels on our calls.
But also now and I think validated through several sources over the course of the last 30 days or so externally.
So all of that I think is contributing to that.
We've also seen significant increases in our levels of automation.
We've been very focused on advancing EDI and auto-adjudication as examples although more broadly working to try to automate all of our business processes more effectively.
Also as I believe you recognize we've done a lot work on our integration activities and we decommissioned several of our adjudication engines.
And I believe we've lined this out before but Mamzies [ph] 2 of PacifiCare's several instances of Fassett [ph] and many other adjudication engines.
So we've made great progress with respect to that.
And then we've also really advanced our efforts around sourcing and procurement broadly and have been realizing the benefits of our substantial scale over time.
And I believe those are all manifested in the realizations of a very significant run rate benefits.
We believe they're under the $300 million to $400 million range recognized in 2011.
And then what you're seeing though is the offset of the kind of the dilutive effect if you will of the mix shift towards a fee-based business and the higher a percentage of our business that's with Optum.
LLC</strong> Right.
And then just specifically to Optum it feels like this is a big investment year and we've also got some good growth it's hard to see x acquisitions kind of what's going on and exactly how much you're investing there.
Is it safe to say that it's kind of peak investment year? I mean you said re-basing with respect to some of those investment spendings.
So we can expect improvement on to that SG&amp;A load into next year? Christine I think that's right.
With the exception of the OptumRx business that business is going to continue to take some investment into next year as we really get bring the scale and the attributes to it that we're really looking forward so that they can actually be a more integrated and kind of more robust platform serving that marketplace.
So while there'll be some in that I think the majority of our investments in the Optum business the rest of them will be -- will pretty much run their course in 2011.
LLC</strong> Great.
And on the commercial MLR? Commercial MLR our expectation is similar to what we're seeing on a trend side.
We would expect our loss ratio to be in that 82% plus or minus 50 basis points but trending towards the lower end of that range.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> Just following back up on some of your comments in the Medicaid business clearly there was a more cautious tone there.
I guess I'm just trying to get a sense for without utilization sort of staying below the trend that you're expecting would we -- are you guys anticipating sort of margin compression on an operating basis over the second half of the year? Or you think you can still squeeze out some increases even in a more difficult rate environment? Jack you want to react to that? Sure.
Chris Jack Larsen.
I guess just maybe to put a finer point on what we have seen in our second and third quarter rate negotiations and then how it will affect our second half performance.
I think the pressure we have all been talking about now for multiple quarters we really saw in most of our rate discussions about 2/3 of our member months have some type of a rate negotiation associated with it sort of late Q2 and into Q3.
And as Steve said in his opening remarks we expect about a 1% average annual 2011 rate increase which is slightly lower than what we had been guiding to last quarter.
But I think the important point is the more recent negotiations have been for second half of calendar and first half of calendar 2012 have really been flat to negative.
So we are going to see margin compression at the gross margin line probably even in spite of the lower utilization environment that we're seeing ourselves in.
To your question about whether we can I think you said eke something out I think we've done a pretty good job in the meantime making sure we are crisp on our clinical management protocols as well as our operating costs.
So -- and actually in spite of the rate environment I'm quite pleased with our operating performance for the balance of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Boorady with Crédit Suisse.
First question just since most state fiscal years end in June I'm wondering what you're seeing in terms of expected rate increases in your Medicaid book and what you're building in for second half rates? Yes I thought we had addressed that in the comments.
But Jack you want to just pick that again? Sure.
For second half rates for state fiscal years 2011 '12 what we're seeing is we're about 2/3 of our member months flat to -- mostly flat and in some cases slightly negative.
I got it.
I apologize if I missed that in your prepared remarks.
And then the other thing maybe you said this too and I missed it exactly in response to John Rex's question.
But basically it was if you look excluding the flu at adjusted bed day -- in-patient bed days per thousand were they up down or flat for commercial Medicare Medicaid? Flat to slightly down.
In all 3? Yes.
Okay great.
And you're assuming they're going to come back up towards the back half of the year in your guidance if I understood your prepared remarks? We're expecting overall utilization to go up most notably in the outpatient and physician categories and to a lesser extent in in-patient.
Which is where it's been consistently.
We do expect it to recover.
And to recover in the area that has been the strongest to date which has been outpatient and physician.
Right.
In-patient as we've mentioned over time we're seeing the results of our clinical agenda continue to take hold there in those areas where we're able to observe outside of economic impacts or broader macro impacts where we're making a difference.
The admission rates as an example and there are other examples underneath that that are a key area of focus for us inside our business.
I know that everyone focuses on the utilization but the unit cost pressures are really the elements that are driving cost.
Yes and you've had some successes there in terms of unit costs.
I guess in that regard do you see a rebound in terms of cost shift as providers are concerned about Medicare Medicaid cuts to them? Or have you been able to preserve some leverage against higher unit cost increases than what you've been seeing? I wouldn't say that there's necessarily any profound change in the environment from that perspective.
Gail do you have a view on that? The only thing I'd add to it I don't think the cost shift for Medicare and Medicaid is anything new.
And clearly the hospitals are under significant pressure.
We have I think obviously been negotiating to find the best economic value but the unit cost pressure is intense.
The area that we've been very much focused on in collaboration with Optum partners is trying to move more to pay-for-performance and alignment of incentives across both the hospital agenda as well as with physicians and in our clinical agenda as well.
So I think that is really where we think we have to go to.
As Steve said in his opening remarks we have to get away from straight pay-for-fee and unit cost increases to actual pay-for-value and to more risk-sharing environment.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
One more on the utilization front you didn't mention pharmacy and I'm just curious did you see any uplift in pharmacy trend in the second quarter? Matt it's Dan.
We did see a very modest increase on the pharmacy side.
Again I would go back to pointing out as a category the outpatient and physician settings.
Overall for pharmacy we're still expecting a trend in that mid- to lower-single digit.
Got it.
And on a separate topic can you comment on the Medicaid RFP environment? In terms of the recently concluded Kentucky Medicaid contract awards and also those that are still outstanding do the request for proposal the way they're set up and the competition seemed to set reasonable parameters on the business opportunity for you guys? Jack? Matt Jack Larsen.
So let me make a general comment on the RFP environment.
I think there's certainly there's lots of opportunities in the space the numbers that we have seen $140 million to $60 billion on the growth side.
To your question about whether they provide a I guess a competitive opportunity for us the answer is that I think yes.
With respect to Kentucky specifically that was a state that was relatively new to manage Medicaid across all its regions.
The components of the proposal allowed respondents to provide both an operating cost proposal as well as a medical cost proposal.
I think from our point of view we've submitted a very strong proposal to the commonwealth.
We essentially bid their ask and quality and access parameters.
And we think we put a pricing that was competitive and really consistent with providing them a sustainable program going into the future.
I think they were looking for a 3-year commitment.
So I guess while we're disappointed in not being awarded a contract in Kentucky I think it was a successful a procurement for them.
There are other RFPs that are lining up there like you were awaiting announcements on both Texas and Louisiana and we expect those here in the next few weeks.
And they represent significant opportunities for us in both of those states.
I think to your broader question it's not a homogenous market.
It's a state-by-state market.
So every state will take kind of its own view with this and conduct its own process.
So it's really hard to really establish any generalizations with respect to that.
It really will be a state-by-state proposition very driven by the situational circumstances of the state at that time.
We're very dedicated to the space.
We have been in this space for many many years.
It is clear the states are looking for Managed Care solutions as really their best and most sustainable long-term outlet.
And wherever the states really have established a posture of kind of working with organizations like us to really achieve those long-term goals we're going to be active.
But it really is a state-by-state proposition.
Your next question comes from the line of Ana Gupte with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> The first question is about the debt ceiling and the deficit reduction.
One of the proposals was to introduce a deductible into Medicare supplements? And given you're leading both in Med Advantage and Med Supp do you have any market research data that seniors might move preferentially to MA? And how does that net out across your book of business? We had thought there might be questions about the deficit coming into this.
And what we concluded is that we're going to stay out of that area of conversation.
They have enough parties participating in that without any commentary from us.
So we're really -- we're not going to comment on elements that are coming out of that because they're just at this point in time a series of proposals.
And I think it would be kind of out of line for us to comment on things that are really just kind of coming from the media about what is being presented.
So we're not really interested in complicating that situation further.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So let me ask another question then.
You talked about risk-sharing in capitation.
Are you at liberty to comment on there was a bundling proposal in addition to the ACO proposal for Medicare? And then in light of the CareMore acquisition by WellPoint and then Highmark buying up or getting into West Penn Allegheny has that changed your viewpoint on more backward integration into primary care clinics or even hospitals? Dawn you want to comment? Sure.
If you think about it in Steve's opening comments he talked about the benefit of the 2 business platforms of UnitedHealth Group.
And the size and scale of UnitedHealthcare benefit business in support of that Optum agenda.
In OptumHealth we are focused on that care delivery community in combination with the broader Optum agenda and we see great opportunity to partner with the system as they prepare for the changes in requirements of payers from the government health plans and so forth.
They need better technology to connect the system they need better intelligence to manage patient care on a population health basis and there is a desire for alignment.
And we're participating in that in many different forms and fashion.
And consistent with these comments that participation not only benefits UnitedHealthcare but serves the broader healthcare community with other payers participating in it and so forth.
This activity is not new to us certainly with SMA and Evercare a long legacy of activity in this area.
And you see activity in the marketplace.
And while I would say albeit different than the approach we're taking certainly activities around involvement with the care delivery system.
So I think it's not surprising to see that others are going to be taking off as well different approaches and to pursue that.
I would offer that I think it will vary market by market because the healthcare environment in each market is different then as result kind of where they are kind of an evolutionary point of view.
What the supply demand dynamics are in that marketplace what the history of protocols in a marketplace vary.
So I think it will be dictated largely by local market dynamics as people pursue different approaches to these more -- the broad theme of more integrated care efforts.
I would offer that going as far as going totally to the hospital is maybe understandable in that marketplace.
But I wouldn't think that it would be something that you would see a lot of.
Inc.</strong> If I could just ask one follow-up on the Optum you have $500 million year-over-year in revenue increase so does that already include some of the inorganic deals you've done? And what can we expect for the back half of the year? Some of the transactions still closing? Are you going to do anything more? I think it reflects the acquisitions that have been made and obviously -- whether we are whether we pursue other investments and whether we're successful with respect to other investments is really to come.
But I think -- Dave you want to respond to that? Sure.
The first 2 quarters of this year you can probably see that we've done several small deals I think 2 of them are probably more significant than the others in both Logistics Health as well as WellMed.
But most of all we're doing our capability plug-ins line extensions and the Optum business to date.
And as Steve also indicated we're not going to comment on the kind of our forward view of M&amp;A activity.
We do continue to look for opportunities to do capability acquisitions and line extensions predominantly in the Optum business.
But we also seek opportunities to take advantage of our substantive scale and then also opportunities to improve our presence in markets in the benefits business as well.
So hopefully that responds to your question.
Your next question comes from the line of Sheryl Skolnick with CRT Capital Group.
To follow up on some of the provider questions.
First of all it's lovely to see a faster than expected the integration of Optum's capabilities to UnitedHealthcare for the benefit of the entire business.
So I think that I guess to answer the question of how do you invest in Optum and still grow profits? But I'm curious about your provider relationships and Steve I've asked you this question before and I'm still stuck on the question which is United and hospitals in particular have very very challenging perhaps natural adversarial relationships.
I don't and I see the improvements in client physician and this more friendly approach to the physician.
But how do you achieve this end goal of building this crucially important integrated system that fundamentally changes the way we get our healthcare paid for et cetera and manage it without addressing the issue of this highly adversarial provider relationship with the hospitals? Yes.
I think Gail may have some things to offer on this but I'll frame some of it.
Well your terms in terms of highly adversarial there are understandable interests across the spectrum of healthcare but if you really stand back and look at what a more optimal healthcare environment would be there will be -- it would be one that is a much more inclusive paradigm in terms of including the interest of all the participants in the healthcare marketplace the fact that we need hospitals specialists more primary care.
We need them to be all more effective we need to use those resources more effectively if we are ever going to have a more sustainable health environment better outcomes and more sustainable cost structure.
So if there isn't a broader more inclusive view of engagement including bringing capabilities that I think we have to offer around the use of technology the use of information the use of care resources and bring them into those venues.
That's where I think you'll find the opportunities to kind of change the healthcare environment from a system's point of view.
And I believe that there is an opening way of thinking about that and that's why I think you're seeing response in the marketplace and the engagement that we are having with hospitals that are far from adversarial in their relationships.
Gail? Sheryl a couple of things to your point around our relationship with both physicians and hospitals.
Over the last couple of years we've made a significant investment in really turning around that relationship.
I just want to point out to a couple of things because we are seeing the impact of that in our satisfaction results and we're also seeing it in the recent AMA survey that came out that showed that we have not only process improvements but they also think the improvements in the relationships with them.
A couple of other things on the physician side we invested in a physician advocate so that we could work more effectively with them and the local community.
We on-shored our calls so that we could have a much more responsive service model for physicians.
On the hospital side we actually instituted a hospital advisory council lead by Michael Boyle and our head of contracting.
That's been incredibly productive.
We're working on 6 to 12 accountable care pilots part of our goal on sharing risk and also working closely with the delivery system to ensure that we have a different partnership relationship and I think we recognize that.
And so that's been a very significant investment.
And then on the back end we deployed a team of Six Sigma experts actually working in the hospitals to help them improve their processes.
I guess I'd sum it up on that at healthcare side as we recognize that that's a critical partnership and as we move from just paying for fee-for-service and negotiating unit cost rate you've got to ultimately find a way to partner on shared risk.
And that's the philosophy change as well as an approach change within UnitedHealthcare.
And clearly in Optum's businesses and OptumInsight they work directly with the delivery system.
We often partner with them when it makes sense to the delivery system.
So I think there's both an attitude change within UnitedHealthcare as well as a very specific program and investment going in improving that relationship.
Sheryl I think an interesting live example is the Tucson Medical Center.
And that will be Andy if you can comment on that? This is Andy Slavitt.
I think picking up on what Gail said the tone in the market has changed I think and has evolved over the last year in particular.
Providers are asking us much more frequently questions about how do I manage risk? How do I manage to help the population? How do I use data better? How do I partner with my payors? How do I use technology? And I think you're seeing a natural point where both providers and payers are really seeking to work more collaboratively together.
As Steve pointed out the partnership we've built in Tucson both with the hospital Tucson Medical Center as well as the independent physician is a great example.
They really want to change the way they get rewarded for taking care of patients.
And they know they need both set of tools that can be provided from Optum as well as the expertise on the risk side and the attraction of members that can come from UnitedHealthcare.
So I think that is not just a one-off.
I think that is thematic of what we're seeing across the marketplace.
I was hoping that you would say all of that because that was a key component of the strategy that I believe did need that philosophical change and it's nice to see it happening sooner than expected.
So thank you very much for that insight.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Baker with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> I was wondering if you could update us on the Medicare side of the business as it relates to timing of the RADV audit results? Any sense of dynamics around that would be helpful? Tom? Sure.
This is Tom Paul.
We're continuing our dialogue with CMS around this topic.
As you may know they received a volume of responses from the industry and at large in regard to the proposed change in the audit methodology.
And we understand they're still working on their response to that volume.
As of this time we're really unaware of the timing associated with their next release around the audit methodology.
Your next question comes from the line of David Windley with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> So Steve I understand that you're very much affirming the strategy in Optum on the heels of leadership change in Optum.
I wondered if there's any change in the application or execution of that strategy? And perhaps as a corollary to that any say reacceleration in acquisition plans there? Things along those lines.
But again the base question is there any change on the underlying application on the strategy in Optum with the leadership change? I think the baseline like the direction that the business is going I think a great progress has been made particularly let's say in the last 9 months or so in terms of establishing that platform making it a more integrated stronger operational platform and one that we're building on.
So I'm reaffirming that.
I think that Larry will bring exceptional dimensions with respect to building that platform.
And in terms of the operating discipline his experiences across broad spectrum of the elements that Optum is using as well as you can appreciate Optum has businesses that are pretty mature and at scale level other businesses that more in the earlier stages of that.
So there is really a diversity of the businesses across that platform.
And that diversity needs to be attended to.
And I think Larry's background and experience just plays splendidly into that environment.
And we're going to continue to build and we're going to continue to invest in that platform.
There's no change in terms of that direction whatsoever.
Inc.</strong> And if I could ask a quick follow-up.
On the evolution of your capabilities in clinical and Optum are you looking at ways and emphasizing ways to move from more population health management to individual management techniques? And is that important as you move toward an exchange environment an individual environment? Actually in many ways they're one and the same.
To be able to manage large population so what you have to do is to be able to manage individuals and do it efficiently in an enormous scale on what levels of intimacy that are relevant.
So to me they're one capability begets the outcome of the other.
Dawn do you have anything else to add? No.
I would echo what Steve said we have invested heavily in consumer base platforms that allow us understand consumer consumer segments understand both their clinical needs and their behavioral needs what motivates them to change.
And we're deploying those capabilities in many different ways in partnership with many different constituents within healthcare from payers to employers to now most recently in partnership with the delivery system as we've spoken about some of these other activities that we have been engaged in across Optum.
So we do see those 2 things coming together hand-in-hand.
It's the benefit of serving 60 million consumers and something we'll continue to cultivate and advance within this platform.
If I get back to the first part of your question Larry's here and maybe it would be interesting to hear a few things from him.
So David maybe I can tell you this it's been a whirlwind 2 weeks of running around and talking to various folks.
But the senior management team at Optum is a very very outstanding team.
And as a result we've been able to hit the ground running.
I don't think we're going to miss a beat on this.
We looked at the strategy.
The strategy is very very solid and we don't plan on making any change to that strategy.
So the end result of a couple of weeks here is that the strategy is sound and we're moving forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Simpson with Morgan Stanley.
Most of my question have been asked but if you could just sort of put all the discussions together and maybe in thinking about EPS seasonality in the back half of the year.
Last 2 years Q3 has been north of Q4 is that roughly the seasonality we should be looking for? And then just secondly maybe comments on Medicaid utilization.
I guess just having the experience of the last 2 years and seeing how trend has moderated across the different pair of classes would just be curious on how you think about the commercial side? Obviously you've got the cost share dynamic which one could assume in this economy would maybe keep people or cause them to be a little more prudent in their purchasing of health care.
But just curious your view of what's driving a similar downtrend in the Medicaid and to a lesser extent the Medicare side? Dave is going to address seasonality and then Jack will take on Medicaid.
Doug I think our seasonality patterns remain intact in terms of deductible wear-offs and things that are specific to our business and frankly specific to the industry.
So you'll see things like the operating cost lift in the fourth quarter our open enrollments efforts on Medicare and our staffing of nurses and things of that nature in order to get to effective 1/1 date.
When you compare the second half of 2011 to the second half of 2010 though there are some differences that are -- I think are unique to this year in particular.
And I just wanted to point them out as kind of a backdrop to that I just want to reiterate that it's been a very strong enrollment year.
And so you're going to see that growth effect come through in the back half of the year.
And as Steve indicated that's one of the reasons why we've lifted our guidance from $4.15 to $4.25 per share despite the significant headwinds of Healthcare Reform.
And as you may recall that number compares favorably or that range compares favorably to the $4.10 we recorded for all of fiscal 2010.
And through the back half of 2011 as compared to 2010 the net EPS performance if you are to look at it is almost entirely explained by the favorable development we experienced in the last half of 2010.
It's quite extensive versus the absence of future developments in our 2011 guidance.
As you know we don't -- we think we do our best estimate of our claim reserves and we don't forecast any future development whether it will be positive or negative.
The other thing I just wanted to note however is that we -- as Dan indicated we experienced unexpected flat utilization in the back half of 2010 and that's compared to our current forecast of a more normal utilization trends in the back half of 2011.
And then also affecting the comparisons will be the minimum MLR rebate requirements for 2011 where no such requirement was there for 2010.
But if our guidance is achieved we will see that in the end that we'll be -- we'll have significantly offset -- or offset those significant headwinds through a broad-based growth margin expansion diversification of our business as well as our capital management.
Great.
And Jack? Sure.
This is Jack Larsen.
Just to answer your questions specifically on in-year seasonality with respect to Medicaid there really aren't any demonstrable inter-seasonal patterns of utilization for Medicaid.
But you know more generally what we're thinking about the broad trends of the boost consumption in Medicaid.
I guess I would call out perhaps 2 specific things.
One what we have seen is an overall reduction in birth rates and keep in mind that about -- on our population of about 3.5 million members or so about 2 million are children and a large majority are mothers.
So birth rates go down we see lower in-patients visits lower bed days of course and reduced levels of consumption.
But I think even more generally it's our point of view that the overall economic factors that affect people generally.
Whether they're in a commercial population or for Medicaid affect utilization.
Things like being able to get off work.
Things like transportation.
All of those things we think are general contributors to the reduced levels of consumption [indiscernible].
So thanks.
I think we have to conclude this call.
I think we have actually more than exceeded our time.
Again we'd like to thank you for joining us.
And kind of remember that as our 2 businesses UnitedHealthcare at Optum work together that we are really making some I think real meaningful in-roads in terms of advancing performance within the health system delivering solid fundamental execution gaining market share and producing consistent strong financial results.
We thank you for your attention and we'll close the call.
Thanks Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here is some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
This call will also reference non-GAAP amount.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP to GAAP amount is available on the Financial Reports and SEC Filings section of the company's Investors page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated October 18 2011 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley Good morning and thank you for joining us to review third quarter results.
We will begin with some general third quarter highlights and then turn to a more detailed review of UnitedHealthcare and Optum's progress and growth.
As we conclude we will offer our view of the overall economic and healthcare environment and our positioning as we head into 2012 which we will detail further at our November 29 Investor Conference when we will review our 2012 performance outlook with you as we did last year.
UnitedHealth Group earned $1.17 per share in the third quarter.
Our results show consistent growth and continued strong broad-based execution across the enterprise.
People are purchasing more of our offerings and we are doing a strong job delivering ever-improving value and service to them.
Deeper and more diverse relationships across many aspects of healthcare consistent fundamental execution practical innovation and our diversified offerings are increasingly important to driving top line growth.
The pace of change in healthcare is accelerating and people are looking for strong partners who can deliver comprehensive solutions to the challenges they face.
Our consistent and strong third quarter financial performance was driven by organic growth careful cost management and continued moderate trends in the level of care utilization along with the benefits of our broader diversification of offerings to the market.
We have increased our 2011 earnings outlook to a range of $4.40 to $4.45 per share on revenues exceeding $101 billion.
Let's review some of the details supporting these results.
Third quarter revenues increased 7% to more than $25 billion with revenues growing 6% at UnitedHealthcare and 22% for the Optum businesses.
The third quarter operating margin of 8.2% was stronger than expected and generally in line with the level reported for the first half of 2011.
The third quarter margin decreased year-over-year primarily due to an increase in the medical care ratio which was caused by premium rate obligations -- rebate obligations $30 million less favorable reserve development and modestly higher medical utilization trends as compared to 2010.
The operating cost ratio increased 40 basis points year-over-year to 15.4% driven by the growing mix of service and fee revenues.
This mix impact was partially offset by consistent productivity improvements across our businesses.
UnitedHealthcare for example has improved its operating cost ratio on a year-over-year basis each quarter this year despite the significant cost for reform readiness and increasing regulatory compliance purposes.
In total third quarter net earnings of $1.17 per share improved from $1.14 per share in 2010 and were again supported by strong adjusted cash flows from operations of $2.6 billion.
Now let's review how these results were driven across our complementary business platforms.
UnitedHealthcare's strong growth performance has been distinctive in the market.
We have increased enrollment in every major product category every quarter for more than a year.
The number of people UnitedHealthcare serves with medical benefits has increased by more than 1.4 million so far this year including 220 000 more people served in the third quarter.
This is on top of adding nearly 1 million people in 2010.
Third quarter 2011 growth was led by the Employer &amp; individual business which grew by 100 000 people half in fee-based benefits and the other half in risk-based benefit products.
This brought growth for Employer &amp; Individual to nearly 1 million people over the past 9 months and 1.1 million people year-over-year.
UnitedHealthcare Community &amp; State and the UnitedHealthcare Medicare &amp; Retirement both had strong growth as well.
These businesses increased by 120 000 people this quarter and 435 000 people in the past 9 months plus another 300 000 people in stand-alone Part D plan so far this year.
Medicare Advantage sales have been strong all year.
We added another 30 000 seniors this quarter bringing the year-to-date net increase to 145 000.
UnitedHealthcare's consistently the choice for the largest share of newly eligible beneficiaries who choose private Medicare plans.
Our Medicaid business grew by 55 000 people in the quarter bringing year-to-date growth to 165 000.
Community &amp; State was recently awarded new business in Texas and Louisiana for 2012 and we estimate will allow us to serve as many as 250 000 more people in those states.
These awards illustrate the larger-scale Medicaid opportunity as states continue the decade-long trend of moving the greater portion of our nation's Medicaid population into the benefits of coordinated care programs.
Overall medical cost trends remain moderated across the benefits businesses compared to historical  levels.
Unit costs continue to be the most significant trend driver particularly in inpatient settings.
We're starting to see some evidence of increased utilization in physician and outpatient settings albeit considerably less than what we expected when we entered 2011.
Hospital days per thousand continued to be lower year-over-year in part due to our targeted efforts to improve care and manage these costs appropriately.
Our consolidated care ratio of 80.7% increased 60 basis points from last year's third quarter as the commercial medical care ratio increased 110 basis points year-over-year.
In summary diversified growth continues across our Health Benefits businesses.
UnitedHealthcare's earnings from operations of $1.75 billion decreased only $85 million year-over-year as new premium rebate obligations lower earnings for Medicaid rate pressure and lower favorable reserve development levels were offset in part by strong organic growth effective product positioning and strong persistent cost management.
2011 earnings are well ahead of our original forecast for the year.
Optum continued its strong performance this quarter with revenues increasing 22% year-over-year to $7.2 billion.
Growth was again driven by both organic expansion and acquisitions that support our efforts for engaging and enabling the healthcare system to perform better for all stakeholders.
OptumHealth's third quarter revenue increased by $1.7 billion a $577 million increase year-over-year driven by added capabilities and market expansions in services for payers in the military and the clinical care community.
OptumHealth total consumers served increased by 1 million people this quarter and nearly 3 million over the past year as OptumHealth's earnings from operations grew 12% to $115 million.
For full year 2011 OptumHealth is tracking to outperform its original revenue and earnings expectations with operating margins in the range of 6% to 6.5%.
OptumInsight's revenues of $625 million increased 6% year-over-year after absorbing the impact from the divestiture of our clinical trial services business.
OptumInsight's earnings from operations of $91 million in the quarter increased 30% year-over-year.
OptumInsight had a strong third quarter sales performance with momentum across all 4 of its markets: payer provider government and life sciences.
Again adjusting for the divestiture of the clinical trials business OptumInsight's sales bookings grew 32% and contract revenue backlog increased 22% year-over-year.
These figures reflect the strong continued momentum in this business.
We are committed to excellence and execution and are pacing our growth to ensure we deliver at the highest levels of client service.
And evidence suggests it's working.
The number of clients willing to recommend OptumInsight doubled over the past year.
OptumRx increased revenues by 17% to $4.9 billion in the quarter.
PBM revenue growth reflects a substantive increase of nearly 2 million people served through internal and external channels and the growing mix of higher-revenue specialty pharmaceuticals.
As expected OptumRx earnings from operations decreased due to investments to support future growth prospects including its service to the UnitedHealthcare Commercial business.
In summary Optum's 22% revenue growth and combined earnings from operations of $320 million in the quarter reflect increasing market demand and uptake for its differentiated service offerings.
We believe these well-positioned businesses will deliver meaningful value across the healthcare system and exceptional growth for years to come.
As we stated at the outset we are raising our full year outlook.
We now expect full year earnings to be in the range of $4.40 to $4.45 per share which will represent growth of roughly 8% over 2010 results.
This forecast includes the meaningful burden of investments to comply with extensive new regulations premium rebate obligations for the health benefit customers some modest increases in healthcare utilization trend and intense preparation for the full in-sourcing of our commercial pharmacy benefits.
Full year 2011 cash flows from operations are expected to be approximately $6.2 billion and we are on pace to repurchase more than $2.5 billion in shares.
Beyond this year healthcare continues to offer compelling growth opportunities and we strengthened our position and capacities to offer ever-improving value to participants.
We are strengthening our ability to respond to those opportunities by continuing to advance performance on many fronts.
We continue to build on our reputation and brands.
We continue to be active and engaged at both federal and state policy levels.
Inside the company we are strengthening our employee engagements and our commitment to a united culture of integrity compassion innovation relationships and performance.
And these efforts are driving better and more consistent value to those we serve.
In innovation we join past winners Apple BMW and Pepsi in receiving the unique and prestigious award for the Product Development and Management Association.
We are only 1 of 2 companies recognized this year for sustaining value-added business performance from innovation for more than 5 years.
Our most recent innovation example would be the launch of our HI health innovation hearing device business this month.
We will be offering effective hearing-assistance devices that are less costly than traditional alternatives along with a broadly available hearing test.
The devices will be available through several channels including at attractive discounts through many of our 2012 UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage benefit plans.
In pharmacy benefits we are focused on advancing a fully capable fully scale platform to bring customers an innovative and differentiated value proposition around integrated cost and total quality management.
We are advancing a consumer-focused agenda with a growing portfolio of leading mobile applications consumer transparency tools and consumer financial analytics that link retirement and healthcare financial needs that's part of a long-term financial plan.
The energy invested in these efforts and more like them is important to our long-term position performance and customer value.
It must be paired with strong execution for what we expect will be an even more challenging environment in 2012.
For 2012 we expect unemployment to remain high and the rate of new business formation will be low extending the pressure on employment levels and overall growth in the Commercial Benefits business.
We do expect to continue our very positive momentum in the fee-based national employer market segment for 2012.
In the risk-based market segment we have seen some pockets of greater price competition.
This is not unexpected given the premium rebate regulations and recent lower cost trends.
We have not seen action among competitors that imply an intention to broadly discharge reserves.
We will maintain our pricing discipline and consistency and expect increased local competition will pressure our membership growth rates in commercial risk offerings in 2012.
We project medical utilization will trend toward more normal historical and seasonal levels in the fourth quarter 2011 and into 2012.
We have realized strong favorable prior year reserve development this year which we believe is unlikely to be sustained in 2012.
Importantly if commercial reserve development recurs next year it will be fully considered in premium rebate calculations just as in-year development was this year.
For these reasons we expect the consolidated medical care ratio to continue to trend up year-over-year in the fourth quarter of 2011 and into 2012.
We entered the MA marketing season with strong offerings for 2012 to emphasize value benefit stability great service and with a proven sales organization.
So we expect continued strong Medicare Advantage growth next year.
In Part D we expect to lose 450 000 to 550 000 low income subsidized auto-assign members in 19 markets where our bids were above the benchmark.
This will impact revenues and to a lesser extent operating earnings for UnitedHealthcare and OptumRx.
Part D bidding approach continues to focus on sustaining high-quality broad-access programs that meet the needs of the market.
Our bids were similarly above the benchmarks for low-income beneficiaries in most regions in 2008 and we foresee price-driven business such as this moving back and forth among auction participants over time and we remain committed to our broader longer-term oriented market approach.
Premium rate increases for government-sponsored benefit programs are expected to remain low and operating costs in 2012 will continue to reflect investments in compliance and reform readiness as we continue to respond to added administrative requirements from the health reform law and ICD-10.
At OptumRx we expect increased investments in service and operations personnel and anticipation of the repatriation of our UnitedHealthcare Commercial business during 2013.
For 2012 OptumHealth expects strong top line revenue and earnings performance to be driven by an increase in clinical services new military offerings and expansion more deeply into consumer services.
Our 2012 cash flows from operations will need to absorb the cash flow impact of the initial premium rate -- rebate payments.
And lastly we expect to increase in the corporate tax rate for 2012 to around 36%.
Considering these pressures achieving an earnings per share advance as we expect in 2012 will require diversified growth in both the Services and Benefits businesses excellent operating and medical cost control and the effective use of capital.
These are fundamental execution elements in our business -- of our business where we have great strength and will continue to concentrate.
Strong fundamental execution in these areas will be key to earnings growth in the years that follow.
We see significant opportunities stemming from bringing our resources to serve the healthcare needs of many different people those with lower incomes the exponentially growing numbers of seniors dual eligibles the uninsured through Medicaid and exchanges and the military.
We believe the PBM market opportunity and the broad and growing demand for services and technologies that help the components of healthcare to better connect better operate and perform as a more integrated system will be sizable.
To recap we believe our long-term growth prospects are excellent.
We're optimistic about our prospects for sustained multi-year earnings growth driven by diversified revenue expansion and strong consistent execution on cost control.
We are realistic about the challenging current market environment and the challenging earning comparisons we will face in 2012.
We will incorporate this cautious view when we provide our outlook for next year at our Investor Conference on November 29 and we hope many of you will join us at this event.
We're interested in your questions this morning.
As usual there will be 1 question per person so we can speak with as many of you as possible.
And I will turn this call back to our moderator for your questions.
And again thank you for joining us today.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to get the Washington update from you and maybe just hone in on the super committee and talk about some of the key issues that you may be monitoring there? And how much risk if any you see from those potential proposals for the business.
Yes Scott.
And I think monitoring is the correct term.
We certainly have been positively engaged in a dialogue at both federal and state levels over the last couple of years and continue to advance an agenda of a more modern healthcare system opportunities that we think that can change the cost trajectory for important government programs things of that nature.
But I think it would be inappropriate for us to actually comment about the processes that we really are not directly involved in and are monitoring just as you might be both at the committee level and if there is subsequent alternative in sequestration if I could ever say that word correctly.
So I don't think we're going to comment on that other than to suggest that we're monitoring it as I'm sure you all are.
A lot of the materials and activities that we have been engaged in and continue to be engaged in we're hoping are considered in recognizing these processes.
But I don't think we can comment further beyond that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Steve maybe just thinking about framing sort of the overall scope of this.
When we compare it just to the whole health reform process that we just went through how would you compare I guess sort of the potential impact or just extent of the issues they're talking about relative to the broader healthcare reform process that the industry just went through? I'm not sure it really compares on that level.
And there's a much wider range of activities that can be pursued particularly as it relates to principally the government programs and so forth.
So I'm not sure that those 2 are really comparable.
I would say though that perhaps similar to reform I think anything that goes -- goes forward has to be shaped to effectively translate to the realities of local markets and the environment that we're dealing with today.
And so at some point in time whatever comes forward has to get translated at a practical executional level and I think that's always a challenge.
I really don't think these processes other than that common thread are necessarily comparable.
Cory Alexander do you have any other observations on that? The answer is no.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Boorady with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Trying to figure out how to jam multiple questions into one here.
But basically Steve I want to make sure I'm interpreting...
Yes.
We're onto you on this one.
Yes so...
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure  I'm interpreting your cautionary comments on 2012 as every year this year you tend to be pretty conservative and cautionary on the following year.
But am I right in interpreting that your EPS growth may fall below your long-term average target of 13% to 16% a year? And if so can you just bullet for us what the most important headwinds and tailwinds are for you going into 2012? Yes.
Well I think we did a pretty strong job of delineating the headwinds if you like me to go through those.
And they are considerable and that's why we are being cautious with respect to our outlook.
We were not in this year near that long-term growth range.
And I don't think the environment has changed dramatically there.
So we're also not giving guidance or direction today.
We will do that at the Investor Conference so I will stay away from that as will my colleagues through the course of the morning.
The challenges are considerable.
And it is a difficult environment.
It is both on a broad economic level and in the healthcare domain when you consider the number of factors that we're engaged in.
We have operated effectively through that environment in the last couple of years and we are poised to continue that and to double down on our efforts on that basis.
But I think caution is the appropriate tone to set at this stage in the environment both on the broad economic plane and in the healthcare domain.
You -- I mean you are as versed on these issues as we are.
From a positives we have a lot of growth opportunities and we're I think a much stronger and more capable organization today and more diverse in our offerings in our reach into the marketplace.
And we intend to pursue those things aggressively.
I think we have opportunities to improve our performance as we do each year and I'll ask if my colleagues want to add anything to that.
No participants on that...
Research Division</strong> So the big tailwinds that you mentioned Steve the non-risk enrollment growth -- you've got the Texas and Louisiana Medicaid.
And I imagine the CMS comments around 10% Medicare Advantage growth next year for the industry wouldn't be achievable if you weren't growing your enrollment around at that level as well.
Are there any other tailwinds to talk about for next year that could move the needle? We have strong national performance business.
We have had a growing pipeline of productivity and innovation and integration benefits that we have been pursuing.
And we are really kind of institutionalized in terms of pursuing and capturing those each year.
So I think there is a lot of things about our organization.
I would say our reputation and our persistency in the marketplace our ability to hold on to business even in challenging conditions is much much stronger than it has been in the last few years.
And I think a lot of that has translated into kind of performance.
We meaningfully outperformed in 2011 compared to what our expectations were going in.
And while I think that that will be a challenge in 2012 given a number of headwinds that's certainly our goal.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Do you think your commercial risk margins will be up or down in 2012? It sounds like you thought pricing at least in pockets was getting more aggressive.
You talked about your assumption that the cost trends would be up next year.
So when you put those 2 together where do we end up from a margin perspective? Well again we're not going to be answering details with respect to 2012 guidance.
I really am not interested in piecemealing this.
We will respond kind of thematically to what we see in terms of pressures in the commercial marketplace.
Gail? Sure.
Let me frame sort of the comment as Steve said we're not going to comment on 2012 margins at this stage.
But part of your question was around what's happening in the commercial risk-based business.
And I guess I'll touch on and follow up on the comments Steve made around pricing in the marketplace and the competitiveness.
We are seeing a more competitive marketplace but I think what's important to note is that this isn't an across-the-board change.
It really is in selected markets.
And I'll give you a few examples.
For example the California market where we're seeing some segments of that marketplace being much more competitive with a few specific competitors as well as in some pockets in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic which are more segment or customer-based type of situation.
From our perspective we've stayed very disciplined in our pricing.
As we have historically talked about over the last several years our fundamental process hasn't changed and we do expect that to pressure our 2012 financial growth somewhat.
The guide grills around this which I think makes this a little bit different than what's happened in past years is that many of the competitors are dealing with reform implications rate review and still have to make investments.
So that's why we see this as specific to certain markets and not a real broad-base change but still some increasing pressure.
Your next question comes from the line of John Rex with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I'm kind of based correctly on how you view the '11 so the jumping off point.
Do I think of your '11 kind of the clean -- kind of think of a clean run rate as the x Penn Treaty when I think about kind of where were jumping off from? Or do you incorporate saying kind of that would be offset by lower development rebates or anything else like that? I think I'm going to let Dave respond to this a bit but I think that it is -- you should be careful about just taking run rates and running them into next year I think each year.
And that's why the pretty impressive list of challenges needs to be considered.
I'll use the premium rebate as just one example.
The reserve development this year -- for prior years was not affected by the rebate calculations.
Next year all reserve development to the extent it exists will be affected.
So those kinds of things really kind of throw that kind of run-in modeling off a little bit.
Dave? Steve I'm not sure I have a whole lot more to add more to that.
John you picked off I think the 2 important features.
One is we do have Penn Treaty still forecast in the fourth quarter and as indicated in the past that's in the $0.12 to $0.15 range.
And then we do have substantive prior year development in 2011 which will not recur in 2012.
And as Steve had indicated to the extent that it does a good chunk of that will be given back to the market.
So that I would characterize as being the most substantive besides the list of headwinds and tailwinds that Steve articulated in his opening comments.
Research Division</strong> So when you're talking you were talking to EPS growth for '12 -- you're basing yourself on the GAAP guidance of $4.44 to $4.45 not the $4.55  to $4.60.
Is that fair to say? Yes I think that's fair to say.
Research Division</strong> And then just the color again '11 -- so coming off year '11 with the trend having run lower and as  you've approached '12 from a pricing perspective how much -- so you approach it with a view that trend is going to reaccelerate appropriately.
Can you give us kind of an order of magnitude how much would trend have to reaccelerate to where it was kind of just matching the expectations you built into that forward -- the forward pricing? I don't think we can offer that kind of precision.
And I think it might be -- it can somewhat -- inappropriate to talk about our pricing at that level in a forum like this John.
So I would offer it -- and I'll let Gail kind of correct me on this if I get this wrong -- I'm going to offer it that we basically look at the current state and then assess that the more moderate levels of utilization perhaps would not be sustained that we would go back to more historic levels off our current baseline.
And that's the kind of approaches we might take broadly.
And we're not trying to sit back and say we're catching up on 3 years or something like that.
Gail? The only thing I'd add to Steve's comments John are that terms of the fundamental approach it's stayed the same.
And remember we're pricing to a long-term medical loss ratio and across 350 different intersections so they have -- we look at the geography the product and trying to make sure that we are projecting appropriately our forward view of those costs in that pricing.
So there is a number of things other than a straight-line assumption on just the trend that go into the factors on our pricing across our markets and our segments as well.
So it's a little bit more broad than what --  is just assessment of a broad-based national trend.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we could just drill into what exactly the message is on the commercial cost trends.
I think Steve you were saying that you're continuing to see moderated levels relative to I guess historical norms but now you're starting to see a slight uptick.
So maybe just what exactly is the message there? Are you starting to see what you would consider normal trends or are we still sort of well below that? And then from your best information what's causing that increase on both the inpatient and the physician side? And again I just want to make sure it's -- this is just commercial.
You haven't seen anything in Medicare or Medicaid? Well I'm going to let Dan respond to this but I think we're going to respond across the expanse of the Benefits business.
I would say that I think we have seen higher levels across all of 2011 compared to 2010.
And then Dan you want to pick it up? Sure good morning Josh.
As always I need to start with the reminder around the composition of our trend.
Our trend is -- unit cost is by far the largest driver in our underlying trend so utilization is a much smaller component.
So with that said I think what we're seeing in utilization is really an extension of themes from last quarter.
So our utilization trend in 2011 is up over 2010 and that's true in commercial Medicare and Medicaid.
It's still below historical norms but I would tell you that Medicare and Medicaid are closer to historical norms.
As we look at the composition of that increase it's really a blend of a couple of factors.
The first is really the low comparison period in 2011 in particular in the third quarter where it was very low in 2010 which will also be true in the fourth quarter because the fourth quarter of '10 was very low.
We're also seeing increased consumption levels and that consumption is going up and in the outpatient and physician categories most notably.
And on the inpatient side we continue to see a more restrained utilization so that's still trending flat to slightly down and that's true across again commercial Medicare and Medicaid.
The other item that's impacting our trend is also the increase in our treatment costs for Hepatitis C with the introduction of 2 new pharmaceuticals in the month of May.
As we think about the full year guidance from a commercial cost trend standpoint we expect that now to be slightly below 6% on the full year.
And similarly we have updated our medical loss ratio guidance to around 81% on the Commercial business as well for 2011.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just so I get this straight it sounds like now the cost trend for the full year is actually a little bit lower than what you said last quarter.
But last quarter you didn't mention any -- even a moderate increase in utilization.
So I guess I'm just confused.
Is -- are cost trends relative to what you saw 90 days ago? Are they higher now than what you were seeing? Or is this continuing to run below expectations but maybe not as much below expectations? So I think what I shared last quarter is that we did see an increase in our utilization trend on a year-over-year basis.
And we did see a further increase in that sequentially at albeit a little bit lower than what we had expected.
So if I were to kind of summarize 2010 was quite an extraordinarily low year.
2011 is running slightly higher than that and pretty much across the board.
And we are seeing some elevation not so much in the inpatient settings but in the other settings and that we're still off what might be historic norms.
But we're seeing some trend pickup right? And I think that's pretty consistent with the way we've seen it all through the year.
So I don't know if we're signaling anything particularly new here.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could provide a little bit more details around the bringing back the rest of the PBM.
Any thoughts about how much incremental spend there is next year? And then how we think about normalized margins on that business overtime? Yes.
I think at this -- I think Bill Munsell can respond to this I think pretty effectively.
Bill you want to take this? As I try and answer this question let me provide a little context in doing that.
And I'd like to start off from the standpoint.
And we've talked about this several times in the past in this forum and others like it.
But we've enjoyed a unique relationship with Medco.
In that relationship UnitedHealth Group has retained the responsibility for all of its benefit designs its formulary management its rebate contracting and its retail pharmacy network contracting.
On the other hand Medco adjudicates and pays our retail pharmacy claims and provides home delivery service to our customers.
So in essence Medco has provided us an array of administrative services to what is really a very well-established pharmacy function within UnitedHealth Group.
As Steve mentioned in his prepared remarks we are investing in OptumRx to enhance its information systems and technology and to increase its scalability.
We're also integrating some of the capabilities of our sister companies such as OptumHealth's eSync platform which helps combine medical and pharmacy data and OptumInsight's data analytics and predictive modeling tools.
The transition will add more than 12 million commercial members on a stage basis.
And we'll begin that process in 2013.
We've developed our transition plan and are currently working with folks at Medco to incorporate what they need to do in that plan.
Research Division</strong> So is there any sense about just the amount of incremental investments and then what you think you can ultimately do on that business once the business has fully transitioned back? Yes.
We've invested maybe year-to-date kind of in the range of about $35 million year-to-date in that process.
We'll probably finish off the year at about that same -- that quarterly rate so just under $10 million a quarter that will escalate meaningfully next year.
I don't want to specify the number.
We will specify it at the Investor Conference.
But it will be a meaningful uptake on 2 levels not only the readiness of the structure of it but we're going to have to be staffing in the latter part of the year as we begin the process of transitioning.
So that will be meaningfully higher than this current year level.
And obviously we are pursuing this because: One we think that this can produce for us a distinctive offering in the PBM space one that perhaps is more integrated a little -- more modern a little more technology-oriented more consumer-oriented; and we think that we can perform and compete at the highest levels in this space and produce the kind of returns that have been historic in this space.
So that's our ambition.
And I don't think we can really comment any more specific level beyond that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
I don't know if this is a question that you're going to -- for the Investor Day.
But in the past you talked about being able to grow the margin across all the services businesses do you still feel that way or is that a longer-term target? And it sounds like the PBM might have a hard time growing margins next year with this investment but...
Yes.
I think when he have made those kind of comments that it's always been with the longer-term point of view.
We certainly aspired to -- we think the margins in these businesses can be strong and can be strong as they get scaled and as these businesses mature.
But that has always been a longer-term ambition.
We really aren't commenting in terms of like next year's numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Justin Lake with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just first a quick clarification.
Steve in your prepared comments I know there's been a lot of questions around 2012 but you did specifically say there will be earnings growth and we'll know -- we'll get the EPS guidance specificity at Investor Day right? And that's off the current guidance of $4.40 $4.45 right? That is -- that's our expectation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then my question is just on the government margins.
And 2 things.
One on Medicaid can you give us any update on one I think you threw out a rate number expectation of about 1% for next year in the second quarter.
Any update there? And also what you're seeing on cost trends in Medicaid specifically if you're seeing any uptick? And then what you think -- just some color on government margins for next year breaking up Medicare and Medicaid and what you see as kind of the headwinds tailwinds from a margin perspective knowing that you're going to grow membership there? Sure.
Well I'll have Jack kind of respond I think principally to the Medicaid questions.
We really haven't been breaking those margins out and have no expectation to.
But I think Jack can respond a number of the other questions you asked.
With respect to your first question about the 1% expected rate increase for full year I think we have very good visibility to the majority of our member months that were subject to some type of a rate action 90 days ago.
And we will see about a 1% average annual rate increase across full year 2011 so feel pretty good about that.
I think in terms of what that may portend for 2012 and some of the headwinds tailwinds a significant portion of the member months that had their final rate action here in the last few weeks and months of the quarter really came out flat to slightly negative.
So to the extent that these rates are set on a state fiscal year basis they're going to present a headwind at least for the first half of 2012.
And we'll certainly have more to say about the extent of that headwind when we get together in New York here in a few weeks.
I'd say with respect to cost trends specifically to Medicaid I guess I would defer to Dan's comments.
He really answered for all of the Benefits businesses and we're really not seeing anything different than the aggregate Benefits business and that is good performance on inpatient bed days with a increasing rate of trend in specifically outpatient physician and then the prescription Rx category for us so fairly consistent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just on the Medicare side I wasn't asking for specificity but just any color like you gave there as far as knowing what the rates are knowing what the benefits you set in the marketplace? Any x PPD any thoughts on what a Medicare margin might be just directionally a headwind tailwind? Yes.
Again following up on Steve's comments not particularly talking about the margins in the Medicare space but you can talk a bit just to show a little bit of color on 2012 and where we see the Medicare Advantage business from a growth perspective.
We're coming up a strong sales year as Steve mentioned in his opening remarks and feel very well-prepared for the 2012 selling season.
We're in day 4 of the annual election period and are pleased with our competitive positioning across our portfolio and at the local market level with a strong attention to premium stability with the vast majority of our membership remaining in a 0 premium plan benefits that resonate strongly with the consumers as they've told us.
And then the value-added services and benefits again as Steve mentioned under the innovation category of his opening remark with the inclusion of the hearing assistant devices that we think have been really resonating well within the marketplace and getting good consumer response.
So we're very optimistic about 2012 and would be happy to share more details in November at the Investor Conference.
Your next question comes from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> As we think about healthcare reform and the Supreme Court there are several ways that that could play out.
If it was the case that reform was upheld but without the individual mandate could you talk about some ways that the industry or United could evolve to adapt to that sort of environment? Maybe I'll offer some opening comments and then -- but it would essentially continue to drive the costs up because of the mix of participation in the marketplace in general.
And there are states today that have those kinds of environments and those states have higher cost structures.
But they are -- they're open markets there are a number of competitors involved.
We participate in some of them.
That's pretty much it.
This is Gail Boudreaux.
The only thing I'd add to Steve's comments is we're preparing our business for the future regardless of what happens with any rulings that occur.
So as you think about exchanges and preparing to be in a more consumer-focused marketplace adding transparency tools preparing our products with more affordable price points across the boards we're looking at all of those things and we're the process of getting ready for that now and we're seeing some of that implemented in the marketplace as we speak.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up.
On the states that do have that sort of situation currently it -- does that generate a different margin outlook for those products? Or is that something that you're able to adjust to and maintain the sort of margins that you get across the rest of your book? I think -- I don't know if Jeff wants to answer.
New York is kind of one of those markets I think it  generally elevates the cost in total of the marketplace.
Sarah it's Jeff Alter.
Predominantly New York right now has an individual market for the past 15 or 16 years with guarantee issue community rated.
Costs are very high but on a margin -- we still have margin on that product.
It's -- it is on a much higher rate in a shrinking market as it has progressed because of the cost.
Because of the cost yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Christine Arnold with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question is a clarification.
I think I might have just missed it because it went kind of quickly.
Did you say that you expect Optum growth in terms of earnings in 2012? So can we think about lower investment in OptumHealth offsetting higher investment on the PBM? And then can you speak to the duals? Where you see that opportunity and how that might evolve for you? Sure.
I'll have Jack and Gail kind of address the duals.
And I don't think we offered any guidance with respect the Optum or any of the other businesses at that particular level.
We did say we expect Optum to continue to grow and that we expect it to grow profitably.
But there will be costs associated with a number of the investments we're making to PBM in-sourcing and so forth.
So we'll go through the performance of the individual business units with you in November.
So we really didn't comment on any particular business in terms of its bottom line performance.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so you're just saying revenue is going to grow in Optum.
You said nothing about earnings either in total or any of the divisions? That's right for Optum or any of the businesses in UnitedHealthcare.
We'll cover that when we go through specific guidance.
I really don't want to  piecemeal this through this.
What I was endeavoring to do was at least portray the environment I think that we're involved in and how we're positioning it against that environment.
Jack? The CMS office of Integrated Medicare Medicaid programs has really infused the whole notion of coordinated care with respect to those who are dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid with a lot of momentum.
And it really began last summer with the introduction of their 2 contracts and states really taking that ball up and developing really responses -- LOI responses as to how they might participate in that dual program.
I think at last count we saw about 37 states responded with that nonbinding LOI.
Just as a point of reference we are partners with about half of those states in the underlying Medicaid program and also offer currently dual Special Needs Plans in the majority of those states.
So in terms of how it plays out for us I would tell you that we have been synthetically providing integrated care to duals for many many years starting with our dual Special Needs Plans on to our ongoing Medicaid plans and then a decade or so ago with our Evercare Institutional Special Needs Plan and nurse practitioner-based program.
So I think it plays out well for us.
I think we're going to see real acceleration of activity in the next few quarters as states move ahead and begin to flesh out specifically what they intend to do with these pilot programs.
I think CMS is going to continue to review those pilots and move some ahead with further support.
I would hold out really the State of Michigan is probably in full position on this.
A couple of months ago they have basically decided to move about 250 000 of their dual eligibles into managed care and we're working very closely certainly with that state as they move forward.
So we're very excited about the opportunity as a company.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you just comment a little bit more on the pricing environment.
I'm interested in -- if you can if you're seeing any variation.
Where in those markets you touched on California and the Northeast Mid-Atlantic where you are you seeing some more price competition or rate pressure? Is it from for-profit or not-for-profit carriers? And does it seem more in the individual side the small group side large group? Just any more granularity you can give? This is Gail Boudreaux.
In terms of my earlier comments I guess the only specific I give is that again it isn't broad-based and it often is -- in some of those markets it's client specific as we near the end of the year.
And I think some competitors are looking at just their positioning.
In California we're seeing it in actually in a couple of the market segments just given some of the actions that have been taken by a few competitors there.
So I don't think from my comments before that it is broad-based.
It is very specific.
It's unique circumstances in a marketplace that a -- a competitor's positioning is.
And I do think people are broadly being rational about their position in the market.
And as I said we are staying very disciplined around our pricing and our position in those markets as well.
Research Division</strong> And lastly are you seeing in the commercial market any noticeable acceleration in a preference for self-funding particularly at the smaller employers size that would normally look at that option? We haven't -- I wouldn't say we're seeing an acceleration.
We've seen a movement to self-funding overtime.
It has not accelerated meaningfully.
We are seeing some movement down market but I don't think it's -- I wouldn't characterize it as significant acceleration.
We also have product offerings in that category that move downstream but we still have a pretty robust fully insured risk business in the small group and that's the preference.
What I am seeing is a huge focus on affordable product offerings so we've put a lot of products into the market that are what we consider value-based networks and that focus on wellness and provide incentives for employees.
And that's been very popular and those are some of our fastest-growing product offerings in the marketplace today.
So there's a real focus on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Sheryl Skolnick with CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if you can answer this question because it's not about cost trends and it's not about pricing and it's not about 2012 guidance.
I'm going to go back to what I usually go back to which is what I'm really interested in and what I think I'm seeing more in both your published and oral remarks today is the intersection and synthesis of the Optum services with the Benefits business.
First am I seeing that? The second part of this question is to the extent that you can measure it and to the extent that you can quantify it what would be the impact on the Benefits business -- if I can frame it that way -- on the Benefits business of whether it's OptumInsight's tools and working with hospitals to become more cost-effective partners get them readmissions et cetera or OptumHealth ability to work with both consumers and employers and other participants to make more intelligent decisions and pursue better cost trends for everyone.
Can you measure that at all? I mean I guess what I would say is when you look at your 2011 numbers and as they have developed over the year what might your margins have been in the Benefits business without the benefit of Optum? So just to kind of -- first of all this is a broader perspective question.
It really speaks to the full range of the healthcare marketplace and the healthcare environment we work in.
We see those that whole marketplace evolving towards a more integrated state a more end to end a more connected a more aligned kind of universe in healthcare and that one would logically imagine that that more aligned -- everybody has commented about the fragmentation of healthcare for many many years -- that that more aligned marketplace should perform better.
And the agenda of our businesses in the engagement in the marketplace on both the benefits side and the services side is to facilitate that alignment and integration and to move it along and participate in a productive way plain recognizing we play a -- more than a role in that.
I think that's been our agenda for several years.
We are really just at some levels kind of getting the first-generation of traction or scale at it.
And I think one would logically believe that you should get a better-performing marketplace.
Your business if you are moving in this direction should perform better.
Ultimately you'd get a more sustainable cost and you get a better end-to-end experience as you get both the consumer and provider participating in a way that is using information at the appropriate point and using the -- using more modern faculties if you will in the healthcare space.
And I think much of that agenda is starting to -- you're seeing the first -- the beginnings of that.
I think the only way to actually measure it is to look at certain clients that have moved along in that continuum a little bit more aggressively so you jump down to a -- almost a client environment where there is that kind of -- you're closer to that and they tend to perform better they'll use their own book of business.
Our own employees where we have been kind of a first mover in on the benefits side  in terms of how we engage on the delivery side and use the tools that Optum has you get better performance.
And I don't know if -- Gail you want to add to that? Sure.
I'll add a few comments to Steve's overview.
I think we have the unique platform with our 2 businesses.
And I think it really does when we work together on this it does provide us a much better platform.
And I think about it pretty simply it's using better information which we get from OptumInsight and the tools helps us make better decisions which Optum helps through its care management capabilities embedded with our programs with our customers fundamentally drives better health.
And that really is the foundation of the programs that we have.
So as I think about those we have many clients that we work together in a very integrated way and other clients who work separately and do that across our entire book of business.
But together it's hard for us to break it out because the programs and information are embedded in how we manage our business Sheryl.
So I think that for us is what's unique about the platform we have.
We can take some of the best tools across our 3 Benefits businesses and apply them and integrate them with the results.
And I think our National Accounts business is probably one of the best examples of driving a lower trend year-over-year better employee engagement though our programs and quite frankly very high satisfaction rates.
So that would be my gauge of the external market's value of an integrated program.
And I think the winners in this at the end of the day while I think our business will prosper by enabling that kind of agenda the winners are the consumers who should get a better tighter more engaged and take on the tools to become more responsible consumers in healthcare and the care providers who are using their resources now more productively more the way they have intended to when they entered that profession.
And then if we can use those resources more effectively there's a dividend to society in that and that's kind of -- we're hoping that there is some modeling that plays to that agenda but it is the long-term proposition.
Research Division</strong> Right.
In the meantime the stock is down 7%.
So couldn't you be a little more optimistic about 2012? I'm disappointed to hear the stock is down 7% but I think what we're trying to do is to kind of prudently lay out the challenges for 2012.
But I didn't think we were holding back on the notion that I think we're a much more capable organization that we'll engage the marketplace very effectively.
We did it in the 2011 and exceeded expectations.
And we're focused on continuing driving that agenda up.
So we are not discouraged if that's the message.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just quickly what's the cash at the parent? And my real question is what portion of your commercial risk businesses is in rebate status? And are you pricing more aggressively in those markets for growth or perhaps thinking of exiting some of them if you're at a loss situation? Very market-specific but Gail do you want to comment on that? Sure.
In terms of the pricing.
Obviously we're pricing as I mentioned a 350 different intersections.
And we're trying to price closer to the pin around medical loss ratio.
Clearly those that are above medical loss ratio status we're managing to get within that realm and that's where we think there's opportunity to continue to work through those markets.
So we won't disclose or get into kind of what percentage of our markets are in what status again.
But I think if you get a sense we had a pretty very disciplined process.
There's a lot of intersection points around that pricing.
And clearly we're working to get closer to the pin around all those intersections and offer I think competitive viable products in the market.
So we think there's a broad footprint and we offer that today in our markets and that will be our continued goal.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then cash at the parent? $1.3 billion [indiscernible].
Your next question comes from Michael Baker with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sounds like you're still working on your back-end systems for OptumRx to produce that differentiated approach that being ultimately the integration of medical and  pharmacy data.
I was wondering when you would have kind of end results ready for the consultant community to try and influence the way they evaluate RFPs? Jackie do you want to respond to that? We've been working on improving OptumRx consistently over the last 3 or 4 years and believe that we actually are quite competitive right now and we'll continue to be even more competitive.
We're hearing from consultants that OptumRx is well positioned has a rising profile in the national accounts market in particular and is increasingly seen as a thoughtful alternative to the big PBMs.
Just to add a tad more color we have recently introduced a whole new web portal system.
We have new tools which we think are state-of-the-art to help members and our clients decide how to reduce healthcare costs and pharmacy costs in ways that match their corporate DNA.
And we have some very new tools that we've developed in concert with some OptumInsight to help with data analytics and predictive modeling.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then finally when do you expect during 2013 to complete the transition process? We are in discussions as Bill Munsell mentioned right now with Medco.
And we are evolving our transition and migration program.
Our goal is to do this in a way that creates the most flawless transition least disruption to our members.
And we will announce migration details as they become more formed with -- more formed.
Your next question comes from the line of Ana Gupte with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to follow up on some of the questions on the self-insured national accounts market and hopefully this is a little more positive and more tailwind-oriented.
On the group retiree market we're hearing that as many of 5 to 10 million group retirees could be moved in the next 2 years to MA and apparently 50 plus percent of employers are planning to that in the next 2 years.
Given that you have a very strong presence in employers and in MA should we be considering that as a bolus that comes in for 2012? Can you comment on the pipeline? Sure.
Yes.
this is Tom Paul.
I think we talked in 2011 that the group retiree marketplace in '11 was a bit flat as employers were coming off of health reform discussions and delaying their decisions.
But as you just noted there is growing interest.
And we are seeing that in our 2012 pipeline.
And I think that the common theme around that is employers are looking for a more affordable solution for their long-term retiree strategy.
And as you noted Medicare Advantage is a strong offering that meets that affordability question.
And so as we're seeing sales for 2012 and quite frankly across our entire portfolio whether it be Med Sup Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D we are seeing sales that are returning to more normal levels in that group retiree with a pickup in MA as well as in Part D.
Because of the change in the RDS status as a result of the health reform law a number of employers are looking at changes in their drug program which over 2012 and 2013 is continuing to afford us many opportunities in that marketplace.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So you would think that the 5 million maybe over 2 years is a reasonable estimate for the industry as well? I think the -- I don't want to comment specifically on the numbers to give you an indicator but I do think that there is significant opportunity across the employer space.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And related to that to MA but not in group retiree you have Med Sup and MA.
Med Sup is somewhat under the gun right now with the deficit committee.
As you're selling and you're entering the selling season with the individual market is the opportunity to upsell someone who's got Medicare supplement in Part D to MA and even for you with the big Med Sup program you've got as much as twice the operating profit dollars are you seeing more of a trend towards that? And are you proactively driving that? True.
This is Tom again I'll respond to that.
So I think that's the beauty of having a Medicare portfolio that crosses each of the products offered in the marketplace.
I will say that within our consumer population there are distinct characteristics that attract -- or within individuals that attract them to  medical supplement versus Medicare Supplement versus Medicare Advantage or even to add on to Medicare Part D.
And so each year as we approach the marketplace for their consumers we're very attentive to what their needs are and then provide the best product that meets their individual needs.
And so we actually have been seeing transition from individuals from the Medicare Supplement marketplace into the Medicare Advantage marketplace over the past year or years.
And we would expect to see that in 2012.
But we'd continue to see Medicare Supplement as a solid offering for a distinct segment of the marketplace and especially because of the benefit features that it offers.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then finally -- I might be the last one anyway asking questions -- so on the OptumHealth side again the consultant seem to indicate that the disruption that the express Medco merger could potentially go on even if the deal closes is benefiting Optum and Caremark so are you projecting a bigger uptick in sales for 2012? Just so we see something for 2012 ahead of the big Medco bringing in a Medco contract in house because right now it seems like it's more about all these upfront investments but you don't realize the top line tailwinds until 2013.
But can we see some of that in 2012? I don't know if that national business moves at that speed but there is no question that we see upside we would not be pursuing this marketplace we see the need in the marketplace recognize I think that we've had for years very strong capabilities in this space if we didn't see significant growth.
And I would agree with you the marketplace will be in some level of disruption with that kind of activity going on.
So it should be an opportunistic marketplace.
I just think we have to be baselined about how that business will come to the marketplace.
But I believe that we will be very very competitive for it.
That question will come from the line of Doug Simpson with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just -- you've touched on a lot of questions.
Just on the inpatient unit prices where do you think you stand right now relative to the #1 carrier within your respective markets obviously the blues.
And just how do you think about the opportunity to better control the in patient unit costs going forward? And then maybe just if you could also touch on what trends you're seeing in acuity across Care Caid and Commercial that will be great.
Sure.
I think our competitive position in these areas has consistently advanced.
And I think we're very very competitive today.
But I'll let Gail kind of respond to that.
Sure.
I think as you look at our growth in the National Accounts space which is highly sensitive to that unit cost issue and overall value proposition we've continued to improve our positioning and feel that we're very competitive across that space.
So I think from that perspective we continue to do it but beyond just unit cost I think that the other elements we add around care management value proposition products wellness have also played into that.
And I'll ask Dan to comment on your note about acuity.
This is Dan Schumacher.
On the acuity front it does vary across the different Benefits businesses.
I would tell you in the Medicare space it's been very stable.
We haven't seen any meaningful change with respect to acuity on the inpatient side.
Whereas in the commercial space we have a long-standing increase in acuity year in and year out that really relates to the underlying aging of the population and so that's no different this year than other years.
Research Division</strong> Okay is part of that acuity also the lift in commercial? I mean can you tie that back to the economy and just a bias where the lower acuity treatments get put off? No I would say it more relates to the overall demographic trend.
That's the larger influencer of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we just think about inpatient unit costs as the driver of trend I mean is it -- is it your view that as we look out 12 18 months that that will continue to be the single biggest driver of care cost trends? I mean is there any dynamic you can foresee where that would change and not remain the biggest driver? My view is that it will continue to be a very significant driver.
And we're working very hard inside the organization to change the way that we orient our payments to reward value.
And we're making some progress in that regard as we look at gain-sharing opportunities all the way through to the full capitation and risk arrangements.
And to be honest it has been the driver several years.
So it's not a new trend.
It's just -- with utilization environment it just becomes more pronounced.
So thank you for your interest this morning.
Sum up quickly I think UnitedHealth Group is performing well delivering consistently strong and fundamental execution.
We remain very focused on customer and external market needs those we serve very focused on innovation very focused on driving value.
While we are mindful of the challenges in 2012 I would suggest that our success in terms of the capabilities and building the capabilities of this organization as we have demonstrated through 2010 and 2011 that we are poised to take on 2012  at exactly the same way.
And we look forward to discussing this with you further at our Investor Day in late November.
So thank you very much Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here is some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
Federal Security (sic) [Securities Laws].
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
This call will also reference non-GAAP amounts.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP to GAAP amount is available on the financial reports and SEC filings section of the company's Investors page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated January 19 2012 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we wrap up 2011 and discuss the potential we see to better serve our customers and markets in 2012.
We're committed to continuing to elevate our performance this year as we outlined in our Investor Conference just about a month ago.
2011 was a strong year across a wide range of performance factors.
Continued focus on fundamental execution improved service and value for our customers.
Financial performance was driven by revenue growth across all of our businesses including from new business relationships and strong retention of our established clients.
Relentless cost management and continued business simplification were prevailing themes in 2011 and innovation and development activities for new markets advanced steadily throughout the year as we strengthened key capabilities to respond to emerging growth opportunities.
For many years now we have focused on the combination of fundamental execution and practical innovation to yield value and performance from our assets for the benefit of those we serve.
We concentrate our efforts on 2 market-facing business platforms: UnitedHealthcare for health benefits and Optum for health services.
Both leverage our common competencies.
This enterprise-wide focuses enabled us to steadily advance year after year compounding our gains over time.
Today UnitedHealth Group is more capable and considerably more nimble than just 5 years ago.
This enables us to better respond to the pace of change required to lead in serving the core needs of the healthcare market.
Our commitment remains for this enterprise to adapt and grow at a market-leading pace and deliver consistently superior performance to customers.
We will begin with some 2011 highlights and then turn to a more detailed review of UnitedHealthcare and Optum's recent progress and growth.
UnitedHealth Group earned $4.73 per share in 2011 an improvement of 15% year-over-year.
Cash flows from operations of $7 billion were once again more than 1.3x full year net earnings.
Revenues approached $102 billion up nearly $8 billion from 2010.
Full year revenues grew 8% with revenues growing 7% at UnitedHealthcare and increasing by 21% for the Optum businesses.
The 2011 operating margin of 8.3% was stronger than when -- than we are -- we originally expected and close to the level achieved in 2010.
Our 2011 operating cost ratio increased 10 basis points to 15.3% due to an overall increase in regulatory readiness and compliance costs and to the rapidly growing level of fee-based and service revenues.
Fourth quarter adjusted operating cash flows of $2 billion brought full year cash flows from operations to $7 billion an increase of $700 million or 11% over 2010.
Total dividends paid increased 45% year-over-year in 2011.
And we repurchased $3 billion in shares $500 million more than the upper end of our plan for the year.
We completed a fourth quarter debt offering at the lowest net interest rates in the history of our company.
And we ended the year with a ratio of debt to debt plus equity of 29% a 1-percentage point reduction from 2010.
At year end we held a strong available cash position of $1.6 billion.
Let's review how these results were driven by our complimentary business platforms.
UnitedHealthcare's growth performance has been distinctive in the marketplace.
Over the past 2 years we have grown to serve 2.6 million more people with at least 6-figure advances in individuals served in every product category over that time.
Fee-based commercial actually saw a 7-figure growth.
Fourth quarter 2011 growth was well balanced with increases of 70 000 people served for Employer &amp; Individual 40 000 people for UnitedHealthcare Community &amp; State 65 000 people for UnitedHealthcare Medicare &amp; Retirement and 25 000 people in stand-alone Part D.
For full year 2011 the Employer &amp; Individual business grew by nearly 1.1 million people with gains in risk-based products of 145 000 people and fee-based offerings of 915 000.
2011 was the best UnitedHealthcare commercial growth performance in a decade.
Our results reflect our emphasis on newer more affordable products consumer-friendly innovation and stronger local market relationships and engagement with the people we serve.
Consumer engagement is central to our health benefits value proposition because improving patients' decisions whether related to lifestyle or access to care is critical to their total health.
One effective tool for engaging consumers is aligning financial incentives with healthy actions.
Our UnitedHealth Personal Rewards products offer consumers incentives such as a reduction in their premiums for completing biometric screening participating in education programs when needed and demonstrating compliance with care programs.
Since its introduction in 2010 both new and existing customers had -- have embraced the distinctive benefit offering.
And we now serve nearly 1 million people in Personal Rewards incentive designs.
This has been one of the most successful commercial product launches in the history of UnitedHealthcare.
Another key component to consumer engagement comes from the power of consumer information.
The emerging intersection of consumer health information and enabling technology makes it possible for people to more easily take greater control of their health.
Last week UnitedHealthcare and Optum exhibited at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.
They demonstrated nearly a dozen innovations ranging from fitness gaming to $45 Telehealth doctor appointments to a new portfolio of health applications for mobile phones and tablets to a highly personalized treatment cost estimator.
These are innovations that empower consumers with better more accessible information and help them improve their health and well-being.
2012 is off to a solid start in Employer &amp; Individual with fee-based growth tracking favorable to plan and risk-based performance on plan.
As we discussed at the Investor Conference we project risk-based membership to decrease in January followed by improvements over the balance of the year.
The majority of the January 2012 decrease is due to the loss of 1 public sector client and 2 public sector funding conversions to our fee-based products.
Client retention appears stronger this January than last year for both risk-based and fee-based products.
In Medicare &amp; Retirement Medicare Advantage finished the year with growth of 25 000 seniors in the fourth quarter bringing the full year increase to 170 000.
Our net new January Medicare Advantage growth will position us to achieve the 250 000 to 300 000 2012 growth we targeted at our Investor Conference outlook prior to the pending Excel Health acquisition.
Excel Health is moving through the regulatory approval process and should close on schedule in the first half of 2012.
In Part D stand-alone we added another 25 000 members in the fourth quarter to close with growth of 325 000 in 2011.
As you know the low-income market benchmark priced below our bids for 2012.
We estimate that we enter January down approximately 625 000 people on a net basis.
We believe we will grow from this level over the balance of the year in the open retail market which provides more favorable returns.
Due to the slow start year-end 2012 membership for Part D may be lower than our initial expectations from November.
Medicare Supplement continued to deliver consistent and dependable growth performance which we expect to repeat in 2012.
Supplemental products provide an important balance of offering serving the needs of seniors both individuals and groups.
In Community &amp; State our Medicaid business grew by 40 000 people in the fourth quarter bringing full year growth to 205 000 through a combination of new business awards program expansions and market share growth.
We expect 2012 growth above 2011 strong results as more of our nation's Medicaid population move into coordinated care programs and the eligibility for Medicaid begins to expand in 2014.
In that vein we were honored to learn earlier this week that we qualified as a successful bidder for the State of Washington's managed Medicaid expansion.
Longer term the intersection of Medicaid and Medicare for so-called dual eligible members is gaining greater attention from policymakers.
The combination of Excel Health with our organization's existing depth in -- of experience and serving the needs of dual eligibles further strengthens our capabilities in this area and positions us well to help meet the growing demands of this market segment.
Our full year consolidated medical care ratio of 80.8% increased 20 basis points from last year with the fourth quarter increasing 10 basis points year-over-year.
Reserve development was not significantly different between years.
In the full year UnitedHealthcare medical care ratio of 80.9% was 30 basis points better than our estimate at our Investor Conference.
Overall the rate of increase in use of the medical delivery system remains moderate across our benefits businesses.
By far unit costs continue to be the most significant trend driver particularly in inpatient settings.
As we previously reported to you we generally saw evidence of increasing utilization in the second half of 2011 especially as compared to the third and fourth quarters of 2010 when utilization trends were essentially flat.
This was most prominent in outpatient and physician office settings.
We expect higher utilization trends to continue steadily throughout 2012.
To summarize UnitedHealthcare diversified top line growth continues to be the central story for our health benefits businesses.
UnitedHealthcare earnings from operations of $7.2 billion increased 7% year-over-year driven by revenue growth of 7% and productivity gains in operations partially offset by the impact of new premium rebate obligations.
Optum our health services business platform produced strong growth in 2011 with revenues up 21% to $28.7 billion.
Total earnings were just over $1.25 billion fourth quarter earnings from operations were $279 million with operating earnings at each business unit slightly outperforming our most recent expectations.
To touch briefly on each of Optum's businesses OptumHealth's revenues exceeded $6.7 billion in 2011 a year characterized by gains in capabilities and growth in a wide range of markets.
OptumHealth services will become even more valuable to the medical delivery system if care providers increasingly share in the financial responsibility for managing health and healthcare costs for broad groups of their patients.
OptumHealth is expert in 2 key areas for improving both health outcomes and costs: one consumer engagement and decision making including selecting the highest-quality venue for care; and two provider engagement relative to the alignment of benefit design and the consistent use of high-quality and resource-sufficient evidence-based care practices.
OptumHealth delivered services to 2 million more unique individuals in the past year.
OptumHealth now serves approximately 60 million people.
This includes 700 000 patients through its collaborative care medical delivery network more than 40% of these patients have a pair other than UnitedHealthcare illustrating both the reach and neutrality of this business.
OptumHealth Financial Services continued -- continues to grow.
It added another 260 000 consumer accounts and increased customer assets under management by $350 million or 31% in 2011.
OptumHealth's earnings from operations of $423 million decreased year-over-year as we fully expected when we realigned this business at the beginning of 2011.
From that re-based starting point OptumHealth has exceeded our performance expectations to full year operating margin of 6.3% also met expectations and we fully expect to steadily improve this performance as it grows more fully integrates and matures.
OptumInsight's revenues of $2.7 billion increased 14% year-over-year.
OptumInsight had strong sales performance in 2011 and enters 2012 with significant momentum across the business.
Adjusting for the divestiture of the clinical trials business OptumInsight sales bookings grew 27%.
And contract revenue backlog increased a similar 26% on a comparable basis to $4 billion.
The number of clients willing to recommend OptumInsight doubled over the past year.
We provided compliant services to more than 600 new hospital customers and we are in discussions with dozens of organizations about services related to their formation of accountable care disciplines.
OptumInsight's earnings from operations increased 34% on an adjusted basis to $381 million.
The full year operating margin of 14.3% improved significantly and we expect strong margin and earnings gains for 2012 as well.
OptumRx grew revenues by 15% to $19.3 billion in 2011.
This revenue growth was driven by an increase of 2 million people served and the growing mix of higher-revenue specialty pharmaceuticals.
OptumRx earnings from operations of $457 million decreased 14% in 2011 due in part to investments to support future growth.
This included technology to support its expanding services to the UnitedHealthcare commercial business as well as its related implementation of a new more flexible mail processing system.
For the overall Optum platform we outperformed in 2011 due to strong sales growth contributions from new businesses and more consistent disciplined operating performance; in a word execution.
We expect 2012 to be a stronger performance year as well as a building year with accelerating performance in 2013 and 2014.
This period will be defined by organic growth driven by increasing customer demand for our technology and services offerings operating margin advances and the benefits of our in-sourcing the remaining portion of UnitedHealthcare's commercial PBM services.
What we hope you are sensing is that UnitedHealthcare and Optum are distinct yet powerfully complimentary business platforms.
UnitedHealthcare brings scale and market innovation pressure to Optum while leveraging Optum's distinctive capabilities.
We share common relationships enterprise-wide from regulators to care providers the government and other benefit sponsors in pharma both as customer and as supplier.
The work we do across both of these platforms can serve to deepen the value delivered and the quality of those relationships.
This breath of engagement is critical to our distinctive market presence our brands and our strengthening reputation.
No one on the services side of healthcare has established comparable market scope and presence.
Through the capabilities of UnitedHealthcare and Optum we have emerged as the market leader in the essential confidence of care management operating in more venues than others and with better integrated data technology and outcomes.
Our technology is emerging as a distinct enabler in operating advantage.
Optum will take responsibility for externally marketing our enterprise technology in 2012 as we look to further externalize the cloud-based assets we've been developing.
When taken in concert with our mobile health applications and the operation of roughly 2 500 dedicated healthcare Internet portals you can begin to appreciate the scope and potential we bring to clients and the market overall.
That technology is fed by distinctive data and analytical applications and skills.
UnitedHealthcare is one of the most prolific health data producers in the country.
Optum is expert at translating data into information that can be used to analyze costs and performance compare clinical effectiveness execute predictive modeling and provide decision-making information to consumers care providers other payers and the government.
Our cultural embrace of innovation as a discipline engages both UnitedHealthcare and Optum.
UnitedHealthcare ideas help drive the innovation dynamic to which Optum must respond.
UnitedHealthcare is an ideal market platform that executes well quickly feeds back change to further innovate a uniquely efficient and innovative [ph] real market dynamic.
No one in health benefits can offer Optum the scale that UnitedHealthcare does.
In turn UnitedHealthcare's growth of 2.6 million people over the past 2 years is both a product of Optum's distinctive services and a top line driver for Optum's results as well.
And we make these capabilities and scale advantages available to others not just for products branded UnitedHealthcare.
Today we serve thousands of parties across the health system.
In the end this complimentary alignment from health benefits to health services allows us to deploy capital and grow across a wider range of critical healthcare markets in virtually every geography and within a range of regulatory structures from heavily to lightly regulated businesses.
In summary 2011 was a positive year for our businesses across many dimensions.
But 2011 ended 3 weeks ago.
For 2012 we are rededicating ourselves to fundamental execution.
For us that starts with serving others a commitment to service excellence managing healthcare costs disciplined operating cost management practical and productive innovation developing and rotating leaders to strengthen our business platforms and the executives themselves deepening external relationships and building new relationships and new business for 2013.
These are the basic disciplines of our businesses.
They have served us well and we expect to continue to bore you with them.
At this early stage we continue to take an appropriately cautious posture on 2012 financial performance.
Our fourth quarter results were above our expectations but they do not alter our view of 2012.
Initial growth results are basically in line with the plan we communicated at our November Investor Conference.
We continue to plan to invest a total of nearly $400 million to the income statement for a form readiness and compliance and preparations to in-source PBM services.
We expect steadily increasing medical system utilization over the course of the year.
Commercial premium and government program reimbursements will continue to be under pressure in health benefits.
And we have no assumption of reserve development.
And if it were to occur in the commercial segment it would be fully subject to rebate calculations.
We expect 2012 to challenge us to be at our best to achieve this plan which targets net earnings per share in the range of $4.55 to $4.75 per share with $6 billion to $6.4 billion in cash flows.
You should be aware that first quarter presents a challenging year-over-year earnings comparison.
Our plans include a sequentially lower first quarter than we've reported today for fourth quarter 2011.
But as always we are committed to delivering our best performance.
One of our investors recently observed that at the current rate UnitedHealth Group's business will produce cash flows from operations over the next 5 years totaling roughly 60% of our market cap.
We intend to grow and to produce more than that and we will continue to be thoughtful stewards of shareholder capital.
If we accomplish the goals we set out at Investor Day we believe the company will become an even more valuable enterprise to our owners and our society.
We are interested in your questions this morning.
As usual there will be one question per person so we can speak with as many of you as possible.
I will turn this call back now to the moderator for your questions.
And again we thank you for joining us today.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Matthew Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just ask about the moving parts in the quarter on medical trend.
And in particular the -- it looks like the -- that you had a significantly favorable variance on the public sector side if we infer that correctly.
Can you talk to that and how much was Medicare versus -- sorry MA versus Medicaid versus PDP? Yes Matt as you can appreciate we addressed more this on a broad basis for UnitedHealthcare but maybe Dan you want to respond to that? Good morning Matt.
This is Dan again.
So first in terms of the quarter we are obviously very pleased with the performance and I guess I would probably talk to it in terms of the medical loss ratio.
Our loss ratio across UnitedHealthcare was up but it was better than our expectation that we laid out at Investor Day.
As you look at the commercial business we saw an increase in our loss ratio and that was largely due to less favorable development on a year-over-year basis plus also the incorporation of premium rebates under reform.
And I think it's important to remember on the commercial side in particular we had very low comparison periods in 2010 in the third and fourth quarter in particular.
On the government side of the business we saw a reduction in our loss ratio year-over-year and that reduction was largely due to more favorable development on a year-over-year basis.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And on the commercial trend did that still come in at about 5.5% for 2011? And can you just give us the reference point for what it was for 2010? Our -- from a trend perspective it came in generally where we had expected at around 5.5% and it was lower in 2010.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Boorady with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I'd love to get your view out of the big picture question that wasn't addressed very much by the Street generally or your investor and this is on bundled payments for Medicare.
It seems like there's been a tremendous amount of interest by the industry and I'm just wondering how we should think about the impact to UnitedHealth Group of the adoption of bundled payments by Medicare.
For example in the Optum products that you sell that enable bundled payments and any pickup in demand you're seeing but also what it means for your Medicare Advantage and potentially your commercial business if providers do embrace bundled payments for Medicare.
Yes.
So I think we think about this broadly in the category of kind of changing our approach to payments.
So it's performance-based.
It is basically any of the variations that we see that are different than a -- let's say a fee-for-service approach and we approach it and have been for some time in UnitedHealthcare in terms of how we have been driving performance-based relationships and contracts.
And as you know over the last probably the better part of 2 years beginning to work with the delivery community in terms of enabling them to begin to ready themselves and engage in a way that they can effectively use these kind of payment methodologies in the conduct of their own business.
But I'll start with Gail with respect to the UnitedHealthcare side and then I might ask somebody from Optum to respond to how we're working on the delivery side.
Good morning Charles.
It's Gail Boudreaux.
I think Steve hit it.
As we think about bundled payments or all ways we're going to compensate physicians in the future and delivery systems we're looking at a broad spectrum.
And today we have everything from fee-for-service to full capitation.
We're experimenting with different bundled payments already in both our commercial and our Medicare business and I think it's right now a bit early for us to comment on the full adoption of that but we think it's going to -- 2 things are going to be really important.
One clinical integration in addition to the payment methodology is going to drive our performance in terms of bringing overall cost and quality.
And at this stage getting the bundles right I think is really important in aligning those bundles appropriately to the right incentives and our clinical programs.
So those would be the 2 things but we have a number of pilots in place already around bundles and it's a bit early but encouraging.
Research Division</strong> The CBO suggested a 10% savings on a certain cardio-related procedure for bundled payments.
Can you share any experience you've had with what percent savings you might expect on a unit cost from the adoption of bundles? Charles I think -- well that was a very specific test run and I think it's a bit early for us to be declaring savings.
We think in cardiac and oncology we're seeing some interesting results around oncology bundles.
In particular we rolled out a payment methodology there last year.
Again fairly early but I don't know that we'd yet declare on what we think the total savings would be because it's not just about the bundles.
I think it's about the integration to care the incentives and the plan design.
There's a whole number of other factors that come into play and we see that both in our commercial business as well as our Medicare Advantage business.
And I would expect that's going to run a wide range across the spectrum of service lines.
So how about on the Optum side? Charles this is Larry Renfro.
In general I'd agree with everything that both Gail and Steve said.
And we're as you know pursuing this in our delivery system.
I might ask Dawn Owens to comment on this one more specifically.
Sure.
If you think about the role that we've had with respect to bundled payments there've really been 2 areas.
One in our specialty network solutions where there are categories of clinical care that are high cost high variation and where we work with the care provider community already today to create bundled payments for those services transplant is a really nice example of that where it's a lot less about the unit cost but more about the total cost of care alignment to quality to protocols and so forth where we deliver strong returns for patients and the system overall.
Obviously it's also a really important piece of the work we're doing in partnership with the delivery system in our Collaborative Care business where we're taking total cost and total quality responsibility for the patient populations that we're serving.
That's in Medicare but also in commercial models as well.
And so learning which models and which markets work most effectively in a skill set there are a lot of factors and dynamics that come into play to create a successful model on that front.
I might just add by saying broadly what we see the benefit of a variety of different alternative payment approaches to the marketplace and if we recognize that it is a widely ranging marketplace as a result these approaches are going to vary significantly.
But over the course of time we're committed to changing the way healthcare is paid.
We do believe these approaches will be a better -- will produce better outcomes better use of resources and will be better for healthcare and we're going to be committed to doing our part along those lines.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just getting back to the MLR differences I think we calculated them what you call noncommercial all other and acknowledged there's a lot in there.
We had those up somewhere around 50 basis points for the first 3 quarters and then down almost 110 basis points.
And that translates into almost $200 million of sort of change in cost.
And I think Dan said earlier that that was mostly due to changes in favorable development.
So should we assume that the change in the noncommercial business was driven by a $200 million swing in development? And then any color on whether that was Medicare Advantage or Medicaid or even Med Sup or Part D would be helpful.
I think Dan is going to kind of be restating what he said before but I also don't think we're going to get into specific math in this kind of environment.
Sure.
Josh it's Dan.
We saw favorable development in all 3 of our UnitedHealthcare businesses in the fourth quarter and on the full year.
In the fourth quarter of this year it was more weighted towards our government programs.
And in the fourth quarter of last year it was more weighted towards our commercial businesses and that's what I'd say with respect to kind of where it's falling along the business continuum inside UnitedHealthcare.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe I can ask a different question and I'm sorry.
Can you talk a little about hospital unit pricing and contracting and any changes? A couple of your peers last quarter stated that they were seeing some change in of those trends.
I'm just curious if you are seeing any differences in the actual unit cost on the hospital side.
Josh it's Dan again.
On the unit cost side it continues to be the most significant driver of our trend.
So it's an area of intense pressure and intense focus for us as a business and I would say that's been relatively consistent.
And underneath that the inpatient setting is the most pronounced.
Research Division</strong> But no change? No fundamental change.
It continues to be a pressure point for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Carroll with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just in looking over your fully insured commercial enrollment for the last few years and then also taking into account the prepared remarks on your enrollment this year do you think that the economy is having less of an impact on employer health benefit decisions than say a couple of years ago? So maybe said differently as the economy -- is it perhaps improving and employers are not being as restrictive on their health benefit plans as perhaps they were back then? So in terms of the economy I don't think that the economy per se has had an impact on the restrictiveness of employers in their offering of benefits.
What we are seeing though is employers are very focused around value-based benefit design things that encourage health and wellness trying to get real value out of the plans that they put in place.
So we've seen significant interest in the narrow-network value-based offerings that we put in the market.
As we look at our growth particularly in the fully insured side that's where we've seen a pretty significant uptick.
Consumer-based health plans have done very well in this marketplace.
Plans that have more consumer responsibility and transparency are selling really well.
And I think employers want to see consumers engaged in health and getting value for it as well as the money that they put in.
So that's really the -- probably the bigger shift than employers fundamentally changing their perspective based on the economy.
And our next question comes from the line of John Rex with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just turning to Optum unit here.
So back at Investor Day you talked about a doubling of the ROC I think and from that unit over the next 5 years so I think between now and 2015.
And also kind of I think you've kind of repositioned that breaking it down into 8 different markets and what I wanted to get is kind of a flavor what you think about that growth trajectory.
So I took those 8 markets that you were looking at at Investor Day.
Can you spike out -- so if I take it down the market segment and instead of kind of the way it's configured right now can you spike out the 2 or 3 that would be the biggest contributors to that doubling? Larry you want to comment? John it's Larry.
I'm going to start and then I'm going to have John in trends [ph] kind of pick this up and maybe go a little bit broader than the question that you asked.
If you look at what we're trying to do from now until 2015 there's kind of 2 key areas of focus: one would be our fundamental execution; and second would be strengthening of our -- what I'd call strengthening and deepening our overall leadership team.
And it will kind of all play to those 8 markets that I will let John get into in a second.
But if you bear with me a minute I think it's worth talking about this.
If you look at the key indicators for us and what I think you ought to look at us in accomplishing over the next few years to 2015 there's really 4 areas you might look at as indicators: one would be organic growth of which we had double-digit growth in 2011; two would be our development of health IT; three would be the development of clinical services; and four would be our PBM in-sourcing.
So we believe we're in the right markets and they are large and they're growing and we believe that we are getting great market response.
But those 4 key areas that I think from an indication standpoint from now until 2015 you want to pay some attention to.
The key to our investments or return from the standpoint of acquisitions I might take a moment and just give you an example a model that we're following and you can kind of take a look at that model and understand where we're kind of going.
If you looked at OptumInsight and how we -- in 2009 and 2010 how we were really making significant investments and building out that platform.
In 2011 we didn't do any acquisitions on purpose.
We focused on integrating and we focused on growth.
The results from doing that the top line growth is double digit our margin has gone up 2% from 12% to 14% and we expect that to continue from 2012 and beyond so both the continued margin growth as well as the top line growth.
So if you apply that same model across the OptumHealth and OptumRx that's kind of the discipline that we're employing to really -- to get to that 2015.
So I think you got to look at that model but you can also look at the 4 areas that we need to focus on in terms of the improved fundamental execution.
I don't know John do you have any comments? Got it.
I think I'd just build on that Larry.
I think as Larry mentioned we -- of the 8 markets we're in the right markets they're large and they're growing.
We're getting good market response for all of them.
The key focus areas as he mentioned were the organic growth health information technology clinical services analytics and the PBM market.
So I think we're in the right markets and we're growing in those markets.
And you got 2 effects: one we're growing the top line and you already see that in the numbers across the board which is 70% of our numbers year-over-year is actually organic growth so you have a strong organic growth story.
And then as we get to scale you'll see the second piece which is our margins expanding and I think you're going to see that in our different [ph] businesses and I think Larry highlighted the story in OptumInsight which is growing from 12% to 14% and we're expecting that to advance next year and get integrated to our long term guidance which we've stated at Investor Day and continuing.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on OptumRx.
Specifically I wanted to see if there was any update on the response that you've been getting from employers any feedback they've been providing or any update on RFPs that you are looking at this year.
And then going back to the prepared comments on revenue growth driven by higher-revenue specialty pharmaceuticals if you could just speak to the size of the growth opportunity that you see there for the mid- and long term.
I think we will broadly -- we don't -- we won't comment on customers or specifics along those lines never have.
But beyond that I think we can respond more broadly Dirk? Yes.
So I think we have good relationships with consultants in the national account space.
We're going to leverage those to continue to gain access to sales.
We have a really good -- we're building our administrative platform and infrastructure.
We think that'll improve our future competitiveness.
We're working hard on our value proposition which we talked about at Investor Day.
It's all about improving total cost and quality by optimizing across medical and pharmacy.
And we grew it out that last year.
2 million right? We grew yes to 2.1 million members and 767 000 of those were external.
And then I think the response in terms of the marketplace is that there is an appetite for a new more innovative competitor in that marketplace and I think we're in the mix on all the RFP activity right? Yes we're definitely in the mix.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the specialty pharmaceutical growth opportunity for the mid and long term? Well look we -- I've read a bunch of stuff and we looked at some of the projections.
We're -- probably 40% of the drug spend by 2014 across medical specialty across medical and pharmacy benefits would be specialty drugs.
We think we're well positioned for that market specifically in the area of our clinical programs and our ability to handle and monitor the use of those drugs.
So I think we're very well positioned to participate in the growth of the specialty market.
And we do all our own specialty.
Larry do you want to comment? I just wanted to make an additional comment on what Dirk said earlier.
When we began the year this year we decided to put an announcement out of the Optum leadership team.
And in putting that announcement out one of the areas that -- and people that we wanted to bring over and to strengthen and deepen the organization was a person by name of Mike Matteo.
Mike is the head of UHC's National Accounts or he was the head of UHC's National Accounts prior to this move.
He's moving into Optum to be the Chief Growth Officer.
And Mike's background he has tremendous relationships both internally and externally.
He's been experienced in business growth business expansion as well as executive sales leadership.
And Mike is going to be working with OptumRx and Dirk's team to really put together a robust sales plan and I just wanted to comment on Mike so that you would get his name.
I don't know Gail if you have any thoughts on Mike? No thanks Larry.
I'd just add that we had a tremendous growth trajectory in our National Accounts business and I think Mike from our perspective brings that skill to the pharmacy business and we think it will be a great addition to Larry's team.
And we have a very strong bench so it's a good move.
Next question comes from the line of Christine Arnold with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> You talked about provider stewards and bundling in the narrow network products.
A couple of questions there.
Could you tell us how much of your membership on the commercial side is in these narrow network products and kind of your expectations there? And could you also put some meat on the bones in terms of your ability to steer volume to more efficient providers so say X percent of our hospitals are considered high performance and they get Y percent of our volume or the same kind of metric on the doctor's side? I think we can respond to that.
Gail? Christine let me take it in a few parts because I see a couple of different questions embedded in there.
First in terms of the value-based products less -- roughly 15% a little bit less of our membership right now is in value-based type products and that is an area that continues to grow as I mentioned at the beginning of my comment.
In terms of the -- I think your second question related to steerage to high-performing hospitals and physicians.
Let me sort of step you back.
We've had a premium designation in place for a number of years and we originally began to introduce that to the marketplace in terms of just cost and quality and information and transparency.
Over the last several years we've began to build that into our basic design of our networks whereas before it was -- it is still available to everyone but we've also now embedded it in our networks.
So that's part of that 15% members that come through that but everyone has access to those premium designated physicians.
In terms of our pay per performance on the hospital side that's an area that's growing.
And I think what I shared with you at Investor Day was that we are taking our premium increases and putting those into -- or rather our rate increases and putting those into pay per performance.
So that's how facilities earn a base rate and then they earn their incentive based on a very specific set of outcomes that we work with them on based on the facility but on a universe of probably 10 standard areas; for example reduction of readmission rates improvement in overall quality scores things of that nature.
From that perspective the percentage there is roughly about 12% to 15% of spend would go through that model.
LLC Research Division</strong> If you think about how much these narrow network membership and the steerage is going to change and presumably you're steering to the lower-cost higher-quality and more-efficient providers and that lowers overall trend.
If you think about all these factors together is your hospital pricing in 2012 -- ignoring utilization because it's always a question what's going to happen there but is your hospital pricing decelerating in 2012 relative to 2011? And what did it do in '11 versus '10? Well I think Dan addressed that when he talked about trends.
There's still a significant pressure on unit cost at the hospital level.
And year-over-year that's one of the most significant issues in our trends so that's one of the reasons we're trying to shift the overall distribution of unit cost to more pay per performance.
But in 2011 and '12 when you look at the details of our trend buildup unit cost at the inpatient hospital side is still significant.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you expect the unit cost to increase on the hospital side and that drives the increase in 2012 medical trends? We expect it to be stable year-over-year in terms of the percentage increase.
I'd just comment one thing about the term steerage.
I think it's important to recognize that the products that are really moving in the marketplace today are enabled.
And one of the reasons I think they're getting traction is because they're enabled by much better information they're enabled by much better more personalized technology.
And as a result the consumers are actually in a position of making an assessment being able to make a choice so the -- it is less steerage.
It is more about providing information aligning incentives and that works on both the consumer side and care providers side to make the marketplace more efficient.
So I think that's -- that is why you're seeing that kind of performance across those products.
You get great outcomes you get high-quality access and you get the opportunity to get in more control of your health and manage the economics because of the tools and the designs that are now in the marketplace.
And I think that's fundamentally different than what I would call the historic notion of steerage.
The one thing that I'd add to this comment as you know we launched the treatment cost estimator tool.
We showed that -- I think we shared that tool in Investor Day.
It is now available to our members and it does provide much greater transparency for consumers to take control of that decision and have a real understanding of cost and quality among providers and plans.
And I think that is having a big impact in the market as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I can see the commercial MLR in the fourth quarter was better than you thought it would be back in November based on your full year guidance but I’d still like to explore the 190-basis-point increase year-over-year.
If you could kind of comment on how much of that is tied to sort of medical trend versus pricing as opposed to how much is due to PPD last year.
You said that there was more in the commercial side a year ago.
And then how much is due to rebates this year? And also -- and perhaps most importantly from my perspective how much is due to the sort of increase seasonality of the business from higher deductible health plans? And how will that change in 2012? Touched them all so Dan go through it.
Peter how about this I'll rank them for you in terms of contribution to increase year-over-year.
The first is stable to favorable development so the change in that on a year-over-year basis.
The second is the introduction of the premium rebates and then the balance is that relativity between yield and trend.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what about seasonality in terms of the change from more people in higher deductible plans? That changes the seasonality of your costs from Q1 to Q4.
Seasonality was pretty stable on a year-over-year basis.
The challenge is you don't see it because the baseline was so low in 2010 when you compare it.
Our next question comes from the line of Justin Lake with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on the questions around Optum and that expectation of return on invested capital nearly doubling over the next 3 years.
Just from a timing perspective first do you expect that to be fairly ratable between 2012 and 2015 or do you expect that to be more heavily weighted early on versus later or vice versa? I'll have Larry answer this but I -- because it will tie into the elements of what he had just said but my expectation is that it's -- it is going to be a steady acceleration where we'll continue -- I mean the framework and I think you should bear in mind and I think the OptumInsight is a good example of it is that we're building these businesses.
And as we build them they'd become more integrated more mature the expectation for margin expansion is established the cost of building these becomes less and the profitability reveals itself.
Larry? Yes.
I think I'm going to go back and I'll probably be doing this many times over the next few quarters to those 4 elements.
I think if we focus on or if you are looking at this from an organic growth standpoint what we're doing in the developing of health IT and clinical services as well as the program with our in-sourcing at the PBM I think those are very strong elements for you to pay attention to.
I think in addition to that just so you know that we're operating off of a 5-year plan.
And so when we're walking through this obviously there are changes that you have to make based on changes in the market.
But I think we believe that we have a very strong start to 2012.
We'll see a solid performance but we'll be able to measure that.
And then I would also go back to what we talk about with OptumInsight because that answers the questions around acquisitions.
It's a model that we're going to have a strong strong discipline around in terms of making sure that we have selected capabilities that we're looking at and we kind of have a strategy of bill partner or invest and we're going to have a strong strong discipline around that.
So I do believe this will give you line of sight into some of the things that we're doing.
And we'll be developing this and talking about it over the next quarters.
And I think it's kind of important to recognize that I think this is principally around execution.
We're in the right markets.
The businesses are well positioned in those markets.
We brought additional resources to bear and this really is a function of execution really over the next couple of years right? Right.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick follow-up on M&amp;A as you mentioned the -- when I look over the last couple of years you spent if I include Excel Health probably in the neighborhood of $5 billion or nearly 10% of your market cap on acquisitions.
And there hasn't been a ton of visibility in terms of the levels of accretion or expected performance from an earnings benefit perspective.
Is there any way you can help us flush that out given the significance there in terms of what that's going to add up from an earnings perspective over the next couple of years? Justin I don't know how to respond to that because we'd have to basically -- is begin the process of almost reviewing acquisition by acquisition with you.
So I think we'll try to do that as we discuss these results.
I would say that I think Excel will be more on the benefits side than it will be on the services side.
But I think maybe the best way to do that would be to maybe discuss our kind of return on invested capital in more depth with you in the future settings.
But we're really not prepared to discuss it today.
I do think that the acquisitions that have been made have been very prominent in terms of the growth of the Optum businesses and I would say that we're very pleased with all of the acquisitions that we made and I'll just leave it at that.
Our next question comes from the line of Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> In the commercial business after you allocate for favorable development can you talk about how the trend changed over the course of the year relative to the 5.5% trend for the full year? So basically what I'm trying to get at is as we exit 2011 are you at that 5.5% trend now or do you think you're closer to the 6% 6.5% trend that you're assuming for next -- for 2012? Carl it's Dan Schumacher.
The trend in the commercial business increased progressively through the quarters of the year and it was more pronounced in the third and fourth quarters in particular because of that slow baseline in 2010.
In terms of where we're operating at today 5.5% is reasonable.
I think we perhaps only have time for maybe one question or so.
So the next please.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Simpson with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Steve could you just talk a little bit about the duals how you guys are thinking about that in terms of timing and potential investment around that and maybe just remind us sort of the states that most interest you and the ability to scale the capabilities you all have into those different markets talking about the cave footprint the steps that kind of thing.
Sure.
I would suggest I'll have Gail and then I think Dan will probably run through a couple of our other parties here today.
I would suggest that this is not new for us.
This is an area we have been focusing on for some time even dating back to the Evercare business the INSPIRIS business et cetera.
And so this has been a market segment that we recognize is in need of management has significant cost has significant challenges so we've been building these capabilities for some time and already have a pretty good base of business.
This is really just emerging in a more national profile particularly from a policy point of view about just what the challenges really are to these businesses.
So I think we're really well positioned in Excel Health gives us a great position in that.
In terms of -- you can come at this from 2 directions: the Medicare direction and the Medicaid direction.
So we are somewhat indifferent and expected different approaches will be taken at different market.
So that's why maybe -- Gail if you want to pick it up from those 2 sides.
Sure I think Steve hit the major points.
One as we mentioned at our Investor Conference and in our breakout sessions we do see it as a major opportunity.
We think we're uniquely positioned because we have significant presence in both the Medicaid and Medicare space.
We've been at this business for a long time.
We have experience in managing clinically complex and long-term care populations and Excel brings some additional capabilities to us which I think will be really important.
And again I think experience and the depth of experience that we have really matters in this market.
Not a whole lot has changed since we met in New York in terms of the timing of what is happening.
We are engaged.
I might ask Jack Larsen who leads our Medicaid business to maybe comment a little bit about what we're seeing in this space in particular.
Hey Doug Jack Larsen.
So I think Gail said it right not much on the surface has changed in terms of having a different point of view on timing.
CMS in a number of the 37 states who have submitted letters of intent are collaborating towards CMS's published goal of 1 million individuals and fully integrated programs by January of 2013.
I guess still where we're at we think all these states that have shown interest have interesting aspects where we could perhaps add value.
We continue to work with states where we participate in the underlying Medicaid programs and offer dual special needs plans as well as other states where we don't have but has developed presence and really trying to work with them as they develop their own unique approaches as to how they're going to get after that integrated Medicare and Medicaid cost structure which is just an extraordinary opportunity I think I shared with you in New York in December.
So...
Thank you.
I think in terms of time we are -- we need to close this.
So again we thank you for joining us on the call today.
We hope what you heard is that our heads are totally into the game for 2012.
We intend to serve people well.
We intend to elevate our performance even further this year.
And we will keep building and growing our businesses and our capabilities for both benefit and for services.
And we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here is some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that can cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
This call will also reference non-GAAP amounts.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP to GAAP amounts is available on the financial reports and SEC filings section of the company's Investors page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated April 19 2012 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
This morning we will discuss our first quarter results and our updated outlook for 2012.
As we said at the start of the year we are committed to further improving our overall performance in 2012 with continued focus on fundamental execution and practical innovations that serve to modernize the health care sector from health benefits to health services.
As we've told you consistently we greatly respect the headwinds facing us this year.
Yet longer term fundamental market needs for improved health care access affordability quality and simplicity continue to grow regardless of legal or legislative processes.
These enduring needs define the dramatic market opportunities that stand before us as we continue to evolve and grow.
Steady growth across our enterprise is evident today.
It ranges from the honor of serving TRICARE beneficiaries to services and technologies supporting integrated care and forward-looking accountable care models.
From significant new pharmacy management engagements to states accelerating their pursuits of managed Medicaid solutions to employee benefits for state governments and large commercial employers from expanding Medicare market dynamics to statewide health information exchanges.
This breadth of growth reflects the diversity of the UnitedHealthcare and Optum businesses their complementary alignment and the value of the core competencies of care management information and technology they both leverage.
In the first quarter UnitedHealth Group earned $1.31 per share on revenues of $27.3 billion an increase in revenue of 7% year-over-year.
The consolidated medical care ratio decreased 40 basis points year-over-year due to higher medical and rebate reserve developments and continued focus on delivering affordable high-quality health care.
As expected our operating cost ratio increased 80 basis points driven by the continued strong growth in services at both UnitedHealthcare and Optum combined with the investments we are making to advance our Optum businesses and particularly our pharmacy services.
Adjusted cash flows of $1.1 billion were in line with our expectations.
We ended the quarter with a debt to total capital ratio of 31% and $1.1 billion in available cash.
First quarter annualized return on equity was once again strong at 19.4%.
Let's review our business results starting with UnitedHealthcare which is accelerating its distinctive and broad-based growth pace.
After adding 2.6 million consumers with medical benefits over the past 2 calendar years UnitedHealthcare grew by another 1 million people in the past 90 days.
That number is now expected to grow by another 700 000 to 900 000 through the balance of 2012 and we have successfully secured the TRICARE West contract effective mid-2013.
UnitedHealthcare is serving sophisticated employers by combining advanced technology with personalized approaches that really reach consumers and help them take more control of their health.
We are advancing newer more consumer-centric products for smaller businesses that value affordability and cost control.
For consumers UnitedHealthcare offers affordability responsive service and an enhanced care experience through our innovative mobile technology offerings.
And we offer government sponsors a reliable partner who provides cost control for their budgets and high-quality branded offerings to serve their constituents.
Execution of these value propositions at the local market level one consumer at a time drives consistent sustained growth.
Let's review some of the details.
In the first quarter UnitedHealthcare grew fee-based benefits to serve 765 000 more consumers.
We added 65 000 people in Medicaid more than 250 000 in Medicare Advantage and 105 000 in supplemental Medicare benefits.
In the process we strengthened our business nationally with distinctive chronic care capabilities through the acquisition of XLHealth.
Our Medicare Advantage business now serves 2.5 million American seniors and beneficiaries.
As expected risk-based commercial enrollment decreased 190 000 people in the first quarter with about half of the decrease due to conversion to fee-based products by large public sector clients that we retained.
And because of additional in-year engagements we are now increasing our membership growth projection for UnitedHealthcare by more than 750 000 -- with 750 000 people to a range of 1.7 million to 1.9 million new consumers for 2012.
This includes growth of 1.1 million to 1.2 million people in fee-based commercial benefits due to the combination of strong retention and new business awards for both new and existing customers in the national account market.
We have also received recent awards for a midyear 2012 implementations of state employer programs in Texas and Nebraska.
Full year risk-based commercial membership is tracking with our previous outlook in the down range of 100 000 to 200 000 for 2012.
Including XLHealth we foresee an increase of roughly 350 000 people in Medicare Advantage for 2012.
Our 2 pending South Florida acquisitions would increase this further both are locally prominent businesses with well-earned reputations for good management and fundamental local execution.
And this is an important region for expansion as South Florida continues to grow its senior population.
These acquisitions strengthen our market presence there.
We project our Medicare Supplement business will exceed the upper end of our prior outlook for the year.
And as you know in stand-alone Part D the market bid [ph] well below UnitedHealthcare in many regions causing the decline of 615 000 people in the first quarter more than we had originally projected with most of it in the subsidized low income market segment.
Medicaid business growth remains fully on track for the year.
We gained the largest share of membership in the first phase of Louisiana's new program this past quarter.
We hope to continue to serve well as subsequent phases are introduced.
And we recently were privileged to receive a new award in Ohio.
Again we are increasing our overall outlook for 2012 medical benefits growth by more than 750 000 people across the full spectrum of our product offerings.
UnitedHealthcare's first quarter margin of 8.1% was stronger than planned as results benefited from favorable items that are not considered recurring in nature.
They include $130 million in favorable true-ups to our 2011 commercial rebate reserves as we updated our estimates and complied with final federal and state regulatory guidance received during the quarter as well as including favorable medical reserve development across all UnitedHealthcare business units.
Our next commercial premium yields are coming in consistent with our November outlook.
Our commercial care ratio is now expected to be at the lower end of our original outlook and is affected by the first quarter's favorable items.
We now expect the ratio of 82% plus or minus 50 basis points for the full year.
Based on first quarter data there is no cost to change our forecast for commercial and medical cost trends this year of about 6% plus or minus 50 basis points.
Unit cost remain the primary driver of medical costs.
Utilization trends remain moderate with outpatient usage continuing to be the strongest utilization category and inpatient activity remaining restrained.
We continue to develop innovative programs to advance the quality and affordability of our products and improve our underlying cost structure and UnitedHealthcare's operations performed well in the first quarter.
The strong growth in customers and consumers across businesses was handled smoothly with positive responsiveness and strong customer service.
Operating costs were well controlled.
Overall we're please with UnitedHealthcare's start for 2012.
Optum our health services business platform is unique in the marketplace.
Offering a depth and breadth of capabilities which help modernize the health care system.
Our enabling tools and services support health care providers payers employers governments and consumers.
We align these capabilities along 8 distinct markets which we size at $500 billion in the aggregate and our current share at only 6%.
All of this we detailed for you at our November Investor Conference.
We see accelerating opportunity over the next several years as the market evolves from narrow highly fragmented single product purchase decisions to customers seeking larger more integrated and comprehensive solutions.
In such an environment we believe Optum's capabilities will be increasingly differentiated.
Optum revenues of $7.3 billion in the quarter increased 8% year-over-year.
Our integrated care delivery business was a significant contributor as it continues to develop and as we expand our footprint in this marketplace.
This gain was partially offset by the sale of our clinical trials business late in the second quarter of last year.
In pharmacy management we expanded the number of people served and saw a growth in specialty pharma and mail services.
These offset the higher-than-expected decline in Part D volumes and revenues.
Compliant services for hospitals and payment integrity services for payers were strong in the quarter.
Technology offerings and related service revenues benefited from Optum's rising market profile and reputation.
Across our provider facing markets our ability to deliver comprehensive solutions differentiate this.
One much discussed example is the growing development of accountable care organizations an opportunity we define more broadly than regulatory definition alone.
As core fiscal and demographic pressures accelerate the need for providers to connect and integrate share data deploy predictive technology and assume risk will also accelerate.
This is an intersection of capabilities where Optum is exceptionally well positioned.
In general strong sales to health care providers and plan sponsors lifted sales bookings for technology and related service offerings 18% year-over-year.
The OptumInsight contract backlog increased 25% to more than $4 billion both as adjusted.
We continue to project overall Optum revenues in the area of $30 billion for the year.
First quarter Optum earnings of $252 million were in line with our expectations.
The 30 basis point margin decline and decrease of $27 million from the fourth quarter and $70 million year-over-year was primarily due to planned investments across our business infrastructure.
Pharmacy services being one of these and the decline in Part D volumes partially offset by incremental earnings contribution from newer businesses such as integrated care delivery.
Across the entire Optum platform we are adding significant capabilities as we prepare to take this enterprise to a new level of performance.
And we anticipated these factors would impact our year-over-year comparisons for the first half.
And as we shared with you at our Investor Conference we're committed to more than doubling Optum's 2011 operating earnings by 2015.
This requires a focused clear and simple plan.
And let us as give you a few of its key elements.
Optum expects to drive roughly 1/2 of its earnings growth through 2015 by expanding revenues from key product groups across its 8 core markets.
Those 8 markets serve as the foundation.
They are less mature less regulated than our health benefit businesses and fully lend themselves to the application of our core capabilities in care management and delivery data analytics and technology.
Examples of opportunities for Optum's growth include integrated care delivery coordination of services for the frail elderly and serious chronic care needs under expanded state and federal programs expansion in compliance services in a dynamic growing regulatory environment pharmacy management awards from external clients and broader development of outsourced technology and services for benefit plans and care providers.
The second major component driving us towards 2015 target is the repatriation of all UnitedHealth Group pharmacy management services by the end of 2013.
And finally there will be a sizable contribution from the tighter integration of businesses products and processes across Optum and stronger overall operating cost management.
These opportunities lie in tightening alignment and performance around our 8 markets and related product sets with a more mature approach to larger and longer term customer relationships.
We will meaningfully reduce costs across all of Optum by leveraging Optum's enterprise resources and new leadership team.
We'll focus spending more directly on improvements in service and further innovation.
This requires the right personnel and the right roles so we continue to move our best leaders to areas that play to their strongest skill set and bring in new talented executives where they can add value.
We believe this plan will release meaningful growth and earnings in Optum by focusing resources on markets where we see a high probability of success repatriating our pharmacy business maturing and better integrating our products and businesses and simplifying our administrative structure.
Optum is solidly on track with the plans we discussed last fall to deliver operating earnings in a range of $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion for 2012.
This is a moderate advance from 2011 while still shouldering significant incremental development expenses of well over $150 million in 2012.
We are committed to distinctive earnings performance and capital returns.
We previously characterized 2012 as a buildout year and we expect steady progress over the course of the year.
We are confident in our commitment to achieve a doubling of the return on invested capital from the Optum platform by 2015 and indeed see the long-term opportunities for this business as significant and our market position as strong.
To sum up against the challenging environment UnitedHealth Group had a strong first quarter characterized by growth across the enterprise continued cost control positive earnings and effective financing and capital use.
Based on these early results we now project revenues of $109 billion to $110 billion and net earnings per share to be in the range of $4.80 to $4.95 in 2012.
This is a $0.17 plus increase at the mid-point from our prior outlook.
Cash flows from operations will advance as well to a new range of $6.2 billion to $6.5 billion.
These projections are measured and prudent an appropriate first quarter posture.
They recognize growth momentum while weighing significant pressure points on some of our businesses including that revised reserve estimate benefited UnitedHealthcare's first quarter medical care ratio and operating earnings.
Medicare Part D memberships in volumes are behind plan at this point impacting both UnitedHealthcare and Optum.
The opportunity to provide services in 2013 to military families through TRICARE will require meaningful ramp-up expenses and capital.
In-year growth in fee-based benefits and services is putting upward pressure on the operating cost ratio.
Premium yields on risk-based products are constrained by government budgets in a tight but rationale competitive environment.
We continue to expect a gradual rise in medical system utilization over the balance of the year.
Sequential second quarter earnings per share could run behind what we reported for first quarter 2012 more in line with the second quarter of last year.
Continued investments in building our Optum businesses will keep its second quarter margins in check and UnitedHealthcare should perform at a more natural earnings run rate than it did this quarter.
As always we are committed to delivering our best performance.
We like our market position and growth prospects.
We have the opportunity to shift -- to grow share at UnitedHealthcare and we have the opportunity to advance Optum to a new performance level by better serving the broad needs of the participants in health care.
Central to both are our core competencies our commitments to quality service and innovation and a collaborative accountable high-performance culture that pulls it all together.
I will now turn this call back to our moderator for questions.
I apologize that we never seem to get all of you in despite holding to one question per person.
And again thank you for joining us today.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you guys go over a little bit more about trends and utilization in the quarter? I know you said it stayed -- you had no reason to come off your 6% guidance.
But can you talk about specifics around some of the sub segments of utilization inpatient doctors and then also just if there'd be any regional differences or by product? Dan? This is Dan Schumacher.
So I would be remiss if I didn't start the conversation with a reminder that our trend the vast majority of our trend is driven by unit cost increases year in and year out on our commercial business.
So with that said I'll move to utilization.
From a utilization perspective we have incorporated in our outlook historically as well as going forward a progressive increase in utilization over the balance of the year.
And we had incorporated a portion of that in the first quarter.
And as we look at our first quarter results they're tracking right in line with our expectations which is to say that we saw a modest increase in utilization in the first quarter.
As you look across both the platform as well as by categories we saw that increase pretty consistently across Medicare Medicaid and commercial.
And then as you look at the categories as Steve mentioned outpatient is the place where we see most increase.
And on the inpatient side we actually continue to see that very restrained.
Our hospital bed days are actually flat to down in each of our businesses across the platform.
All of which is pretty consistent with what we've been seeing.
Absolutely.
And that's why our view on our trend for the full year remains unchanged.
So we're still at 6% plus or minus 50 basis points.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I were to subtract out all of your favorable PPD in the quarter I get a higher loss ratio than you suggested in your guidance.
So is that to say that maybe put back up a lot of that PPD in the quarter? I wouldn't read into that.
Certainly when we get to the end of each month and quarter we are picking through our best estimates of ultimate reserve outcomes and ultimate medical expense so we have no expectation of development forward.
Certainly the development we recorded in the first quarter influences our 2011 trend which is a little bit better than what we were thinking when we closed out the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Ana Gupte with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> To follow-up on the favorable reserve question.
Can you break down how much of that came from each of your subsegments? And when you report the $530 million does that include the loss ratio rebate impact in commercial -- for the commercial portion of it? Ana this is Dan Schumacher again.
First I think one important reminder is that when we're talking about development that is measuring a change in our medical reserves whereas our rebates are incorporated in premium.
So development in and of itself is not influenced by rebates.
Certainly our rebates are influenced by our development.
In terms of where we got development this quarter and where we saw it we saw it broadly across all 3 of our business platforms including commercial Medicaid and Medicare.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I'm understanding $530 million the rebates were accrued on the premium line item.
Then the $130 million that you came in sounds like more favorably.
Is that because you overestimated trends for the last year and so you over accrued? And can you just give us some color on that? Sure.
On the true-up of our rebate accrual for 2011 in the first quarter there are a host of factors that obviously influenced that.
We're measuring it across 350 intersections.
And so there are changes in estimates.
But also importantly there were changes to state and federal guidelines that it came down in the first quarter that influenced the rebate result for 2011.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And what specifically if I might just finish up there on what the guideline changes were? Sure.
On the federal side it was with regard to how capitations would be treated.
And on the state side it was more around how the definition of small group would be whether it went from 1 to 50 or 1 to 100.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
I guess maybe just following up then on the rebate comments.
Just want to understand a little bit better when you guys -- obviously when you accrue on the cost side of margin for a favorable development do you have -- or sorry for adverse development do you do a similar thing on the rebate side? Do you build in like a margin for favorable development that we might expect in Q1 to have generally a positive true-up there or is that more a specific line? I just want to understand how unusual this 130 is.
Kevin this is Dan again.
It is -- that is the adverse margin deviation you're talking about.
That's unique to medical.
That's not something that relates to the rebate.
And I would tell you that this is a unique item for this year.
But I would say it is -- the rebates and the reserves are basically estimates.
They are done based upon the performance of the book.
And as a result those estimates change like any accrual from month-to-month and quarter-to-quarter.
So it is just a normal factor.
It does not have a structural element though as you suggest as the adverse deviation would be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then one quick one.
Is the cash flow guidance simply just the lower rebate payout in 2012? Is that why it's that? No.
I think there's a variety of factors.
The cash flow guidance is really a result of the improved earnings performance of the business.
Our next question comes from the line of David Windley with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you a question about duals.
And as you evaluate and talk to states and look at the blanket of opportunities could you give us a sense of how many situations do you think its going to be more of a direct to the incumbents process versus how many situations do you think you'll be actually able to show your frail elderly care capabilities through XL and INSPIRIS et cetera and actually compete for perhaps even a larger share? I think that's framed very well it's a good question that we'll kind of go at it in 2 directions.
So we'll start with UnitedHealthcare but then I think Optum will also comment on the duals.
Sure.
This is Gail Boudreaux.
Let me frame that broadly because I think you asked the right question which is who's -- how well are you positioned to compete in the duals market.
And from our perspective we think we're extremely well positioned because we have really strong franchises in both Medicare and Medicaid and serve a number of the chronically ill populations already through our complex care.
The XLHealth acquisition also offers us some very unique capabilities the in-house calls and we're looking to deploy those more broadly.
So we think that the combination of both our footprint in Medicaid at the state level working very closely with these populations as well as the skills that we bring to Medicare offer us those capabilities.
And I know that the combination of what we're bringing from our Optum site as well.
I'm going to ask Jack Larsen who leads our Medicaid business to give you some comments specifically about some of the state opportunities that we're looking at and then we'll ask Optum to share with you some of their capabilities as well.
Jeff Larsen.
I guess I would say at some level we are working with all of our 25 state partners.
As you know many of those states have posted the outlines of the demonstration plans seeking stakeholder comments.
And then ultimately proposing it to CMS some time later this spring.
I'd say where we are an incumbent Medicaid or incumbent Medicare dual slip plan sponsor.
I think we're in very good shape.
I think we bring the best of both of those worlds to bear for the benefit of the dual eligible population.
So whether it goes to somebody who is not in the state or to an incumbent I guess I would say as I look at our opportunities I really like our position in most of our states.
Let me ask Rick or I guess Larry to take a look at the services...
Larry do you want to take duals from an Optum perspective? Larry? Sure.
I'm going to pass this to Rick Jelinek in a second.
But I just wanted to make a comment on kind of the market and some of the things that we're seeing.
We're being approached as what I'll call an unregulated infrastructure services capability.
And as we proceed down the road on this there's a couple of organizations within Optum that Rick will talk about and how they kind of fit.
But as Gail said this we see as a very very strong opportunity and we're pretty well positioned.
Rick? Thanks Larry and thanks for the question.
This is Rick Jelinek.
As you know we are a very large service provider to dual populations today on both the Medicare and Medicaid side on behalf of UnitedHealthcare but as well as on behalf of state customers and other payers.
We're a provider of primary care services in physician offices as well as in long-term care facilities for residents that are permanently placed in an institutional setting and dual eligible.
We also provide a series of specialty services through our PBM our behavioral health businesses and another network products like our transplant services business which are also covering a large population at the dual eligible market.
And maybe most importantly we have a full range of care management and disease management programs for all levels of care that are done telephonically in the home setting through our organizations like INSPIRIS and within provider setting.
We can deliver these programs at scale.
We have excellent outcomes on the business and we're doing this today with as I mentioned health plans and directly with states.
So we feel we're well positioned across all of our UnitedHealth Group businesses.
We think we have some very compelling integrated solution for the dual market.
So whether it's directly through a program through UnitedHealthcare or through enabling support through Optum we will serve that population.
Our next question comes from the line of Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
[Technical Difficulty] Our next question comes from the line of Sheryl Skolnick with CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> Thank you very much especially for the explanation of how United is intending to grow Optum.
Unfortunately I can't use my one question to ask about Optum.
I need to ask a question about the commercial membership situation.
I know that you did discuss this several times that you did expect there to be a contraction in the number of lives that you serve.
But if you could I'd like to understand this because given all of the improvements that you appear to be making in affordability simplicity and the appeal of the products the service of products it seems a little bit contradictory as it were that you would be losing lives on the risk-based products.
So can you just walk me through what the situation is there and what the opportunity is to turn that around going forward? Why don't we start with Gail and then Jeff Alter can respond.
This is Gail Boudreaux.
So first our overall growth was very robust as you saw in the commercial market space.
We grew 575 000 total lives and had very very strong fee-based growth.
So we're really pleased with that.
As you look at the risk-based growth we knew that was going to happen.
And let me sort of walk you through the pieces of it.
We lost 190 000 lives in the quarter but that was really driven by a couple of large public sector conversion accounts and one large public sector loss.
If you look underneath the membership for the quarter in risk-based we actually had a robust small business group growth in small business rather which we think is a strong indicator of the value-based products we put in the marketplace.
And we would expect to see improvement over the year given our guidance of 100 000 to 200 000 loss which is our expectation.
So the big driver for the loss was really the conversions in the large public sector accounts that occurred in January.
And then maybe I'll ask Jeff to comment on just out of the products that we're putting in the marketplace and your view of the state uptick in that.
Jeff? Sheryl it's Jeff Alter.
Just to add to Gail's statement the kind of the overall top level is a little bit deceiving as to kind of the fundamental growth that's going on in our marketplace underneath -- on the fully insured business.
We're seeing some very nice uptake on some of our more value-based products now or in network some with gatekeepers.
So we're actually very pleased in the performance of our new products as well as our overall fully insured block of business.
And I would just add that's a very competitive sector of the marketplace.
We are committed to holding on to pricing disciplines.
And I think that's clearly a factor in that small group risk-based category.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> How do you think of the risk reward of bidding in state insurance exchanges as opposed to offering a similarly structured and priced product outside of the exchange? And where are you in the process of establishing this product that would mirror the low-cost exchange option in key markets with respect to development and understanding the margin that that product may have? Well that one could take the balance of the morning.
But I will start with UnitedHealthcare in terms of kind of the technical side of your question.
And then perhaps a perspective from Optum as well.
So want to start with this? Sure.
This is Gail Boudreaux.
Let me frame your question first broadly because I think you have a couple of different things embedded in your question.
The first around the positioning on the public exchanges.
One we're in the process of -- we're actually engaged with the states and we are taking all the necessary steps inside of our organization to prepare.
As we look at that all the guidance is not out so we haven't made our final determination.
But as you think about the preparations that we're making around value-based products network configurations clinical engagement all of those things we are putting in the marketplace now.
And we have many of our members already cost and effectiveness of those products is already in place.
So to answer your question we're looking at that market now and we're preparing for the public exchange.
On the private exchange side we believe that cost and quality will be important consumer engagement will be important and effective clinical models.
So those 3 components.
And we've got products in our market today that we are in the process of introducing and have begun that process.
This is Larry Renfro.
From the Optum side again it's kind of like the duals.
Optum is positioned as what I'll call an unregulated infrastructure with a lot of services and capability.
And I think the way that you could think about it is that we can enable as open architecture.
Meaning that if you're familiar with and most people would be familiar with 401(k) plans and how 401(k) plans kind of have open architecture with investment products the way Optum is structuring its technology is to have that type of open environment for different health plans and so fourth.
So we actually do that with a private exchange today and we believe those capabilities are going to play well in the future.
So Mike the discussion on duals direct participation through UnitedHealthcare and enabling participation through Optum.
Our next question comes from the line of Christine Arnold with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> I want to revisit a question I asked last quarter because I think we crossed wires.
And ask maybe a little bit more clearly.
Could you talk about how you are steering to various providers? How you're lowering overall cost and where you are? What inning are you in and what mechanisms are you using to steer utilization to the lower overall cost providers? Well I might frame it from the perspective of how are we incenting the marketplace to use the best resources and those resources to perform at their best levels.
So I think that's more in the United health care domain and maybe start with Gail and Jeff.
Sure.
Christine let me try to frame your answer at a couple of different levels and hopefully get to the specifics that you're looking for.
As we think about this the value comes from really a combination of a couple of levers.
The first is network configuration which you just mentioned.
But importantly is plan design and how we engage consumers and care and cost decisions.
And the third is clinical engagement.
So we build the products we're looking for essentially a 10% to 15% price differential.
Specific to your question around network configuration.
The difficulty in answering it broadly is it does vary market to market and based on how the delivery system is configured and structured.
But to put an example on that when you look at our premium designation network which we've had in place now for over 6 years.
It includes 21 specialties 145 markets.
Roughly when you look at physicians who practice at a quality and efficiency around evidence-based medicine in the 75th percentile.
Roughly 50% of the doctors qualify in those specialties to be in the premium designation network.
And of those doctors who qualify their cost are about 19% less than their peers in those markets.
So that gives you a perspective of the kind of scale we're talking about.
And importantly within those markets we're also looking for an improvement in quality.
So knee surgery would be a great example.
Those premium designated doctors have about 60% lower complication rate which drive the lower cost profile.
The same thing with spine fusion roughly a 42% lower complication rate for our premium designated doctors driving a much lower cost profile.
So hopefully that gives you a sense of the kind of dynamics that we can drive in the marketplace.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what inning do you think you're in? Is this a note [ph] a constant process? It's an evolving process.
And I would say we're in the early innings because we've had the premium designation network for roughly 6 years so that's very mature.
But now we're moving up this continuum of more pay per performance against the last -- we've quoted a number of roughly 15% of our in-network spend is in these type of arrangements.
We're looking to significantly increase that number over the next few years.
So I would say early inning there's a lot of improvement in data and technology.
But over the next several years that's going to dramatically improve because products are being built around this and the networks are being configured that way.
Christine it's Jeff Alter.
One of the other areas -- we've done a really nice job starting with the premium designation program creating products around premium designation.
And then just as of April 1 we just released our next-generation consumer tool called My Health Care Cost Estimator.
We really think this is the next inning if we want to continue the baseball analogy.
This tool allows our members to be better consumers of health care.
It gives them a health care shopping experience that allows the member to compare prices and quality for physicians.
And since it's released we've gotten very positive feedback from our clients and the people that we serve.
Mainly because it's a really highly functioning tool that delivers the information in a simple very personal way.
And it's a experience that goes beyond just a web tool.
It's integrated with our customer service model.
Our treatment decision support models and any questions that the members might have around that.
And it really is a first-generation release the game changer what we think is going to be really revolutionary will happen some time in the midsummer where that data will be actual contacted reimbursement rates.
Therefore that level of pricing accuracy that the member will experience as they shop for health care as they do other products is really going to change.
We think that's -- this could be a good game changer for the second half of the game.
Christine I also wanted to clarify one thing in terms of the 50% of our network spend is in pay per performance modality.
So I just want to make sure that was clear because I know I was talking about premium designation as well.
And I'll just summarize by saying basically what you heard is an alignment that's really never really happened before.
An alignment between how products are designed how our consumer engagement tools are designed to work with those products also designed to work with our clinical programs and how those clinical programs are designed to work with our high-performance networks.
And that alignment and the enablement across of it has never really I don't think has ever gotten to these levels before so -- and we think this is very early.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Interested if you can help spike out when you think about the 1.1 million to 1.2 million fee-based member adds.
How that's breaking out between large public sector client wins versus employers? And then maybe talk about some of the key factors that are driving your share gains in the public sector market particularly against the nonprofit blues? We'll respond to that.
I don't think we'd respond specifically to competitors.
We'll just talk about the market in general.
Scott it's Jeff Alter.
The majority of our growth in the first quarter happened in employer based traditional commercial.
Some of the increase in our outlook for the future is the big wins in Texas and Nebraska.
So to sum up both sides of that growth I would say that our value proposition the network economics that we drive.
But more importantly the recognition that some of the tools that we spoke about our product design some of our network configuration designs really are beginning to take hold and to be noticed as different than everyone else.
And that's -- that has powered our momentum to date and continues to change our outlook for the future for growth particularly in public sector and some of the larger commercial clients.
Research Division</strong> And how much runway do you think you still have on the public sector? Do you have an estimate of what your share of those commercial large public sector clients is right now? I don't have specifics.
But there are still a number of large states that are not our clients that we would hope that our success in our existing state relationships and the 2 new ones coming up this year will open eyes in other states as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I'll try and ask a quick one.
I guess I was just surprised not to hear about the favorable weather I guess for you unfavorable weather as well as the impact of leap year.
So just curious if that had any impact in the first quarter as it relates to medical cost trend and/or your MLRs? Well if you'd like to hear about that we've got the right guy for you Dan.
So last year obviously we had a bunch of inclement weather.
This year we've got a little better flu.
Those 2 things are about a wash across the entire platform.
And certainly the extra day in the first quarter of this year is adding to our medical expense in the first quarter this year as compared to last.
And those I think are the components.
Research Division</strong> But when you talk about your 6% frame.
I mean I'm just trying to figure out is that an apples-to-apples sort of a PMPM base trend? Or is that inclusive of the fact that you had additional services because there was an extra day? Our trend is on a full year basis obviously.
And it is at the core a PMPM comparison per member per month comparison.
And so it would incorporate the extra day.
And then as you look at the composition of those days over the balance of the year there's some ins and outs and washes.
It gets muted over the full year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's only say like a 30 basis point impact for the whole year.
But apples-to-apples your trend would be lower without this leap year? Your MLR would be lower without it right? True.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Boorady with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> My question is related to medical trend and maybe to continue from Christine's question.
Just when you step back and look at the overall secular trend and how much below that secular trend we are right now.
I want to understand how much of that is cyclical factors versus structural factors? And Steve you outlined several of the structural changes that you're driving as a company.
So maybe you can answer this in 2 ways.
One how do you measure this pace of structural change? What's on your dashboard for number of ACOs percent of physicians and known group things that you really monitored to measure that pace of change.
And then b how much are you bending the trend as a company versus what is simply cyclical weakness in medical trend? Maybe I'll start this and then hand it off.
But I would say you ask a difficult question it basically go through the flow of the medical cost trends and be able to parse it as cleanly as your question might suggest.
We would love to be able to do that.
I think it's -- that is -- that would be quite a challenge.
I would say the things that we do measure are things like how much of our total spend is going towards performance and the continued upward trend of the amount of spend that is based upon performance-based metrics et cetera.
We measure things like a basic utilization measures.
And we know from our health care affordability program that we are getting traction on those and those are fundamental improvements.
I think it is very difficult to measure the impact the consumers are having on this by how they are using products and the influence they're having.
It is interesting to observe how consumers behave when you put these tools in their hands and put the right kind of incentives in place.
I'd also say it's equally interesting to observe how providers respond when these transparency tools go forward and they begin to measure themselves against others who are providing services in their market et cetera.
We'd love to be able to take those kinds of inputs and parse them neatly.
But we -- I'm sure we can build a model but it would be just that.
And do you have anything to add to that? It is a great question and it is clearly something we have models on spend energy on.
We do think these elements are all having an impact on it.
Can we offer particularly in the economic background in which we're operating in that this is a structural rebase lining of medical cost trends? We don't have a basis for that at this point in time.
And I think you can see from the guidance that we provide that we are watchful and very respectful of medical cost trends and the more moderate utilization realities that we have been seeing.
So I think that's a best answer we can probably give you at the moment.
That's a very good question.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just 2 maintenance-oriented questions here.
Obviously you bought in $1 billion of stock in the first quarter.
Is your guidance for the year still $2.5 billion to $3 billion? Or given the first quarter number is the run rate tracking a little higher in terms of your internal models? And then secondarily can you give us a sense for the TRICARE startup headwind? Dave? Chris this is Dave Wichmann.
We have not changed our guidance with respect to how much share repurchase.
We're still estimating somewhere in the range of $2.5 billion to $3 billion for the year.
We did repurchase about 18.5 million shares for total cost of about $990 million in the first quarter.
So we would look to expend the balance of that range over the course of the last 3 quarters of this year.
Yes.
And in terms of TRICARE we are obviously tooling up for that.
We've got maybe in the zone of $60 million of costs related to TRICARE preparation between ramping up operationally as well as some capital investments that have to be made.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that $60 million is that in -- was any of that spent in the first quarter? Not in the first quarter but it's in our outlook.
And there are no further questions in the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Hemsley for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
So in closing I'd like to quickly summarize what we have said today.
Both UnitedHealthcare and Optum are on track in meeting our expectations.
We are seeing steady growth across the enterprise in virtually every business segment.
The breadth of that growth reflects the diversity of our businesses how they work together to complement and support each other and the enduring value of our competencies and technology information and care coordination.
We're increasing our outlook for 2012 net earnings and membership and cash flows.
We remain committed to further improving.
Thank you for joining us today and that concludes our call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here is some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
This call will also reference non-GAAP amounts.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP to GAAP amounts is available on the financial reports and SEC filings section of the company's Investors page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning in our Form 8-K dated July 19 2012 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we will review our second quarter and first half 2012 results and discuss the near-term outlook for our businesses.
In the second quarter UnitedHealth Group earned $1.27 per share an advance of 9% year-over-year on revenues of more than $27 billion which increased by 8% year-over-year.
Our consolidated medical care ratio of 81.3% reflect strong performance on medical cost results that were slightly better than expected primarily due to favorable reserve development.
The operating cost ratio of 15% reflects continuing growth in services at both UnitedHealthcare and Optum and the investments we are making to advance our Optum businesses particularly pharmacy services.
Efficiencies from our multiyear operational improvement efforts partially offset this cost growth.
Adjusted cash flows of $2 billion brought first half 2012 adjusted cash flows to $3 billion up $650 million year-over-year.
Our financial flexibility continues to be distinctive.
In the first half of this year we grew our dividend payment rate by 31% extended our share repurchase activities closed 3 acquisitions in Medicare and still maintained a debt-to-total capital ratio of 30% and $1 billion in available cash.
Annualized return on equities for the first half of 2012 was 19%.
Let's review our business results starting with UnitedHealthcare which continues to sharpen its innovative focus toward greater simplicity quality affordability and consumer value.
UnitedHealthcare provided medical benefits to nearly 36 million people at June 30 an expansion of 1.7 million year-over-year and an increase of 305 000 in the quarter.
Second quarter revenues increased 8% to $25.5 billion and the outlook for new business remains strong.
Looking forward recent successes include affirmation by the government of our mid-2013 TRICARE award for military benefits to serve nearly 3 million military personnel and family members the Kansas and Ohio awards for Medicaid benefits and the selection of UnitedHealthcare by Texas and Nebraska to provide health benefits to their employee.
These awards unless publicized engagements we're winning day in and day out reflect our commitment to serve to execute and to innovate.
Breaking down second quarter results UnitedHealthcare Employer &amp; Individual year-to-date growth stands at 550 000 consumers served which reflects a decrease of 25 000 people in the second quarter as we expected.
Favorable cost trends and overall client satisfaction remain key positives.
Our service reputation remains strong customer retention is high and response in our newer more innovative products and technologies continues to grow.
The values – the value of our network – our networks deliver in care quality and cost containment is high but we are seeing an ongoing shift in market priorities.
Large sophisticated buyers are placing their business based upon well-aligned consumer and care provider engagement aligned to effective clinical management capabilities.
Collectively these elements have positioned us to continue to add value and grow our self-funded business into 2013.
For the risk-based market segment the competitive climate continues to be aggressive but rational.
This remains consistent with what we have been seeing for more than 1 year.
Some pricing we see in select regional markets seems to reflect the assumption of ongoing lower medical trends while some pricing strategies seem to be simply based on the avoidance of any rebates under minimum MLR provisions.
We expect this market to continue to be highly competitive into 2013.
We will hold fast to our disciplines and accordingly expect continued pressure on our risk-based product membership.
We believe customers and our company are better served by consistent and predictable pricing supported by our realistic view of forward cost trends.
In Medicaid UnitedHealthcare Community &amp; State continues to grow steadily adding 210 000 people served this quarter and a total of 275 000 people year-to-date.
New implementations and new awards in 2012 include Louisiana Texas Washington State and Kansas.
In Ohio we received awards for both the traditional Medicaid population and for duly eligible residents.
We now serve Medicaid programs in about half the states in the U.S.
This includes services such as behavioral health care and pharmacy benefits which they customers increasingly seek to integrate into their Medicaid offerings.
Service to the duly eligible and integrated benefit offerings both play to UnitedHealthcare's historical experience and strength.
As with our commercial benefits UnitedHealthcare Community &amp; State remains disciplined in ensuring we achieve an appropriate return on the capital we have invested.
We continue to take a prudent market sustainable posture for both new bids and maintenance of existing relationships.
We remain committed to partner with states that are committed to the long-term viability of their programs.
But we will withdraw from programs within states or change the nature of our service to those programs as needed in instances where we see that commitment to viability weaken.
UnitedHealthcare Medicare &amp; Retirement completed 2 acquisitions in Florida and also have the strongest organic growth this quarter among all participants in the Medicare Advantage market based on CMS data.
Our growth demonstrates the value for consumers of our Medicare Advantage plans which includes our focus on benefits popular with seniors and their positive experience receiving well-coordinated care from a strong network of local physicians.
In total we increased our Medicare Advantage participation by 85 000 seniors this quarter and are serving 340 000 more seniors through the first half of 2012.
Our filed 2013 benefits again offer market competitive plans and focus on the benefits that seniors tell us they value most.
We anticipate continued steady growth next year as well because of the ongoing entrance into Medicare of millions of seniors our expanding market presence and the consistently high consumer value our programs offer.
Overall we expect to UnitedHealthcare will serve between 1.8 million and 2 million more consumers this year making 2012 among the strongest and most diversified membership growth years UnitedHealthcare has ever experienced.
Turning to margins and medical costs UnitedHealthcare's second quarter operating margin of 7.5% remained in line year-over-year.
We expect our consolidated medical care ratio in 2012 to be in the range of 81.5% plus or minus 50 basis points.
This is an improvement to our outlook from last November and is based on results from the past 6 months including reserve development realized to date.
We forecast our commercial Medicare care ratio for 2012 to come in toward the lower end of the range we most recently provided which was 82% plus or minus 50 basis points.
And we continue to forecast commercial medical cost trends this year at about 6% plus or minus 50 basis points.
Unit cost increases remain a primary driver.
Utilization continues to increase modestly.
Outpatient usage continues to rise with increases across all markets commercial Medicare and Medicaid all consistent with our last quarter.
This is more reflective of an increased number of patient visits and procedures than the more intensive services on a per visit basis.
Some of this increase volume results from our efforts to encourage more appropriate use of health system resources with patients receiving service on an outpatient basis rather than via full inpatient admissions.
Use of physician services is generally stable and inpatient activity remains restraint.
UnitedHealthcare's pharmacy costs are again showing the benefits of our intensive management.
We will improve upon these approaches still further as we engage OptumRx to administer our commercial offerings and pharmacy programs.
While we're executing well we remain cautious because pressures on the benefits market remain significant and continue to build.
The commercial sector is competitive.
Job creation and new business formation are weak which impacts growth.
Great pressures in government programs are intensifying and rates in some Medicaid venues are even slightly negative.
Unlike prior years these current Medicaid rate reductions are generally not been mitigated by corresponding benefit reductions or provider fee schedule reductions.
We have discussed the funding challenges faced by state programs a number of times and are now more clearly seeing the predictive effects of those pressures in the marketplace.
In the senior market Medicare Advantage rate increases have been minimum -- minimal for 3 years or more.
Changes to quality Star definitions that were made after the measurement period was completed will adversely impact rates for many Medicare Advantage market participants for 2013.
This backdrop suggests year-over-year gross margin pressure in the back half of 2012 and into 2013 in health care benefits.
In this environment UnitedHealthcare will focus on using new product offerings aligned to more modern consumer engagement techniques and effectively engage our focused clinical programs and high-performance networks to achieve growth with fair margins and capital return.
We are also intensely focused on reducing operating costs becoming leaner more streamlined and ever closer to the customer.
Turning to health services.
Optum produced revenues of $7.3 billion in the second quarter an increase of 4% over last year.
The OptumHealth and OptumInsight businesses posted 21% and 16% top line gains respectively with the latter adjusted for divested businesses in 2011.
Growth drivers included expansion in integrated care delivery and continued growth in compliance services and clinical and operational performance tools.
Our technology and related services offerings continued to show strong market acceptance with the Optum revenue backlogs again growing more than 20% over last year.
This growth was led by strengthened data and information infrastructure solutions for government customers compliant services for hospitals and performance tools for payers.
Future revenues will also benefit from the integration of services in the new Medicaid award in Kansas.
In the pharmacy services we are implementing some recent large customer awards which will modestly benefit second half 2012 revenues and we continued steadily growth of specialty drug and mail services.
But these impacts are more than offset by the decline in Part D volumes that began in January of this year.
Optum's mission is to make the health care system work better for everyone.
We leverage enterprise-level capabilities to drive more positive outcomes reduce costs and simplify and improve the health care experience for all participants across the system.
We size our addressable market at 500 billion and steadily growing.
As a business we're continuing to create what we call One Optum evolving Optum into a more integrated enterprise intensely focused on customer needs across the 8 distinct markets we serve.
The businesses are lining to deliver the more comprehensive and sophisticated and sustaining solutions customers require in an increasingly complex and changing health care environment solutions that bring greater and more consistent quality speed efficiency and lower cost.
Our One Optum efforts are creating a progressively flatter more integrated organization that is simpler and leaner more understandable and more responsive to customers.
Our Optum cost structure is also becoming leaner and we're better leveraging the scale of the enterprise.
We are strengthening and more tightly aligning shared services and operational support and administration and removing redundancies that are the historical result of organizing smaller businesses around specific products.
When combined with this flatter simpler organizational approach tighter alignment enables in an evolution from a product-oriented enterprise to one focused on more integrated customer solutions.
This opens up opportunities to serve larger more comprehensive and longer-term relationships established with customers at more senior executive levels.
Optum's second quarter operating earnings of $320 million were in line with our expectation and improved $68 million sequentially.
We accelerated certain investments this quarter to move faster on integration and better position Optum for future growth.
With our first half performance Optum is on track to deliver full year operating earnings consistent with our projections.
Second half earnings will benefit from the improved leverage from our One Optum efforts and seasonably favorable revenue trends in a number of our businesses that are driven by year-end business dynamics.
We continue to see operating earnings of between $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion which is modestly above 2011.
This despite absorbing incremental development expenses of more than $150 million in 2012.
We expect to further build on that performance into 2013 and remain on path to doubling Optum's 2011 earnings by 2015 driven through organic growth operational efficiencies and PBM in-sourcing.
To sum up in a challenging environment UnitedHealth Group's strong second quarter and first half performance were characterized by broad-based growth strong service and execution for clients continued innovation in products and services solid margins and positive earnings and cash flows.
We want to thank our 100 000 employees for their compassion and their commitment to the people we serve.
Every day they're working intensively to deliver dependable consistent service innovating and building the capabilities of the future.
And their capacities to adapt quickly to changing markets remains critical to our future.
As always we have concerns about today's challenging environment in the health benefits market.
These are not new.
There continues to be more downward than upward pressure across the health care landscape.
We expect this environment to prevail for some time due to the employment malaise and imminent regulatory changes.
State budgets are clearly constrained for Medicaid.
Medicare funding is similarly pressured.
Deficits leave policymakers with little room to address long-standing funding issues.
Long before expansion markets such as exchanges due eligibles and broader state Medicaid expansions are fully established and productive industry regulations and taxes will be imposed and realized.
Our diversified position is a strength as we work to address these headwinds but we have respect for the challenges ahead and believe market expectations should remain in check and aligned to these realities.
Based on our results so far we have increased our 2012 outlook for revenues to $110 billion and earnings to a range of $4.90 to $5 per share.
First half earnings benefited from reserve development as well as the first quarter rebate adjustments while second half results will include TRICARE startup costs.
While we always endeavor to perform to our full potential we expect earnings per share in the second half to be slightly lower than the first.
Longer term we expect significant market expansion and see opportunities for market share growth.
Consumers and benefit sponsors want more for less.
At the most basic level they want higher quality care at a more affordable cost.
Consumers have demanded and received more for less in virtually every other segment of our economy and health care will not be immune.
The government as a benefit sponsor has been increasingly relying on private sector solutions.
The private sector provides a more flexible and open better managed higher-quality health care experience than traditional passive indemnity programs built solely on leveraging fee-for-service.
The commercial market has been consolidating for some time and that trend will continue.
To capitalize on the opportunities of the future on a national or even multi-market basis it will be essential to invest in and create leading innovative capabilities and competitive operating cost structures.
These have been underlying themes in our businesses for some time.
On the Optum side the market for health services is just beginning to ripen.
Optum is an early-stage enterprise relative to the scale of what we believe will ultimately develop in this sector.
We look forward to providing you with a full view of our 2013 aspirations and expectations at our annual investor conference which will be held in New York City on Tuesday November 27.
I will now turn this call back to our moderator for questions.
And again thank you for joining us today.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ana Gupte with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I was looking Steve to get a perspective from you on the consolidation that's ongoing in the government segments and particularly the large transaction that WellPoint and Amerigroup conducted recently.
And can you tell us what your thoughts are on strategic alliances versus consolidating more regional players sort of in a more of a national sort of broader-based M&amp;A play? Sure Ana.
Obviously we won't comment on specific transactions.
But I think I kind of hit it in the end of my formal comments.
And that is the demands in the marketplace broadly whether they’re in the commercial side or the government side are just continuing to increase become more sophisticated more complex.
And the responses to them we think deserve a very focused response and need to be scaled.
So we've kind of taken those philosophies in our own business for many years and have focus our responses to those kinds of markets with dedicated business units and has sought to expand them and grow them and build their capabilities.
So it is not surprising to see that kind of activity we have said that will be coming and it really has been happening for probably 15 years or more.
So we as I said in my final comments we expect that to continue.
Now in some respects we've accomplished those things both through relationships in the marketplaces and alliances.
And in some instances we have chosen to invest.
I think you're going to see both those kinds of responses in the marketplace.
And I think both of them can work depending upon the specific market that you're dealing in.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then a follow-up on that.
So the excess cash flow that you have if you could provide some perspective on the priorities on health benefits relative to health services and on the benefits side commercial versus government then on buybacks and potentially future increases in dividends? Yes.
So again our financial position remains strong.
Our cash generation capacities remain strong.
That's really no change from the past.
So our approach with respect to capital allocation hasn't changed.
Since it relates to expansion activities we are interested in continuing to build on -- across our business broadly.
We look at it not just in market segments also but in the cultivation of capabilities.
So basically all the above is my I'm sure unsatisfactory answer to you because we're really interested in building and see opportunities to build in virtually every one of our business areas.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Carroll with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes a question on Medicare Advantage.
Steve I think you mentioned steady growth expectations as we've seen in prior years but that continuing to 2013.
But you followed that up with a comment about we've seen rate increases kind of at a minimum for the last few years and that perhaps is going to lead to some margin pressure second half this year maybe in the first half of next year.
Just maybe pull those 2 comments together.
Does that suggest perhaps a more aggressive strategy to grow market share? Maybe spending a bit of margin here now to perhaps accelerate Medicare Advantage growth over the next call it 2 to 3 years? I'll kind of comment broadly and then let Gail and maybe Tom respond.
But I would say one is that environment really isn't any different than the one we've been having for the last 3 years probably at least.
And we really align to philosophies around steadiness of managing our benefits and being consistent in the marketplace and we have historically tried to lean towards the benefits that seniors in specific marketplaces seem to respond to most effectively.
I don't think things like that broadly are changing.
We're really just outlining an environment that has prevailed and looks like it is not going to change any time soon.
You want to add? Yes.
It's Gail Boudreaux.
A few comments just build on Steve's.
We have as you know been dealing with the rate environment in Medicare for a number of years and our focus is on the sustainability of the benefits and the program for consumers.
We work hard around affordability how we work with physicians and hospitals to ensure that we've got the right programs underneath that as well as improving our overall quality.
So from that perspective we've had that strategy for the last few years and we're going to continue to stay focused on that.
We think that's really important to the Medicare program overall and think it can provide good value.
The second issue on growth.
We're pleased with our growth.
We've had as you heard in Steve's opening comment very strong growth in the SEP part of enrollment as well as a strong opening to the year in AEP so pleased with the value that we're bringing to the marketplace and in the markets that we're growing.
And as you saw this quarter we also added several acquisitions which we think helps strengthen our position in markets as well as capabilities.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Baker with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the Medicaid comments that you made.
Do you think we're close to the point where we'll start to see again some Medicaid Managed Care participants begin to pull out of the market in order to rebalance the relationship between state governments and the private sector? I'll start this and let Gail and Jack mop this up.
But this -- that response obviously varies market by market.
And the posture that states take vary market by market.
But the answer to that is yes that if we see situations that we believe the state isn't prepared to sustain in a particular market we will withdraw or as I said in my formal comments withdraw or reposition the programs.
And I think that that discipline has to prevail just like it prevails in other parts of our business.
Jack? Thanks Steve.
Mike just maybe echo a part of Steve's comments.
A successful program between the private sector and any particular state really rests on 2 things.
It really rests on a partnership going both ways and I use partnership in the fullest sense of the word and then really mutually satisfactory economics.
And if one or both of those are missing then I think we're not doing a service to a state and they're certainly not being well served by us if we continue to sort of slug along in a relationship that isn't really working ultimately for the Medicaid beneficiary.
Our next question comes from the line of Sheryl Skolnick with CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> First of all I just wanted to clarify something.
Nothing in your comments should suggest with respect to Medicaid or any of your other businesses that you're willing to break price discipline even if your margin might be a bit lower year-over-year.
Is that correct? We are not breaking pricing disciplines across any of our business platforms at all on the health benefits side or on the Optum side.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to hear you say that because there was an element to that question which almost made it sound like that was the question.
No actually I think we answered that one that we will take the steps necessary if the economics aren't sustainable.
Research Division</strong> Yes you did.
And my real question is this.
I'm fascinated by the notion of One Optum.
It appeals on so many different levels from the good business sense to the market opportunity.
And I'm curious about what trends or factors you might have seen in the market that tell you that now is the appropriate time to respond in that way and/or to lead the customer whether there's been perhaps growth in the sophistication that at a pace that maybe is a little bit more accelerated that it might have been a year ago whether there are fundamental changes going on in the market that -- and I'm just -- I guess I'm sorry for a lack of specificity around the question because it's -- what I'm trying to get at here is there's an issue of United leading too quickly where the market can't go.
And so this is a major change.
It's a different approach.
I think it's the right approach.
And I'm curious as to why you think that now is the right time to do this and what types of things you might be able to accomplish by having a more integrated product in transforming some of these relationships and ultimately the way we pay for and deliver care.
Sheryl I think it's an excellent observation and question.
I think I'll have Larry respond.
But I would offer a few themes in the onset.
As we formulated Optum brought it under a single brand aligned the businesses kind of base bind [ph] them last year this was basically that market need we saw at that time.
So we are really just continuing to execute along those same themes.
And the One Optum is a good title in essence that is code across our enterprise for the acceleration of that -- of those integration themes across our business.
And these have been well laid out.
And Larry can really run with those.
Sure.
It's Larry.
I think with Steve's comment as well as Steve's earlier comments when he opened up I think you kind of know where we're headed in terms of One Optum.
So let me back up for one second.
We decided based on goals that we set that we were trying to go to the 15% ROIC and 6% margin by 2015 which is basically doubling our 2011 earnings that we needed to put together a very strong and focused business plan 3-year plan.
And in putting together that 3-year plan we are seeing the amount of attention traction however you want to look at it that we're receiving from our 8 markets that we're focused on.
And as a result of that we're looking at how we're going to hit those numbers from a performance standpoint.
And as we've been getting into this with our potential customers and so forth we believe that about 50% of that will come from growth and 50% will come from what I'll call cost management integration alignment and the PBM in-sourcing.
So if you kind of take a look at where we're at today in 2012 we're feeling pretty good that we're in line with expectations.
And when we get to what I think one of the questions you were asking is about the markets and growth and so forth we're seeing that we're in large markets that are getting larger and then we believe that we're starting to really be able to learn a lot.
And we're going to be expanding as we go forward.
Yes I think the market is postured for longer-term relationships that they're pursuing a broader set of aligned services and seeing the need for that.
They are building capabilities and we are building ourselves into them as part of that and they are clearly buying -- their buying behaviors are moving towards longer-term more sustainable integrated.
And the point I was making before is that probably existed 1 year 1.5 year.
So we are urgent about getting Optum this One Optum agenda moving forward because we think the market is already there.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on some of your comments about pricing into next year.
I mean you broadly indicated that the environment was I think aggressive but rational.
But the comments around pricing that appears to -- your competitors appear to be assuming that continuation of low utilization maybe runs counter to how we think about what's rational and certainly my impression of what we were seeing in the last few years.
And then obviously your comments about expecting to lose membership implies that you don't see your competitors as entirely rational.
Maybe you can just flesh out some of what you're seeing there.
And then also provide some color on markets in particular where you feel like things are maybe more competitive? Sure.
So really this is around the definition of rational right? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So Gail do you want to take a shot? Sure.
Consistent with the comments we've made over the last several quarters we expected the market to get more competitive and that's what we're seeing.
So let's say we're not seeing any change in that.
We talk about rational.
Our competitors are making decisions based on their rebate positions their view of minimum medical loss ratios their view of future trend.
And yes as we said I think in the last couple of calls there are certain pockets where they're making those decisions but overall we do see it as rational.
When we talked to -- gave you our guidance last year and what we said in the last several quarters is that consistent with that competitive environment we are seeing some pressure on our enrollment.
You saw that this quarter and you've seen it this year.
So I think that's how it ties to it.
We've been very consistent and disciplined in our pricing and that's creating some of that pressure but we're going to stay the course on that.
And we're looking at pricing to our future view of trending costs.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just to kind of follow up on that into a different product.
You mentioned that you expected some rate pressure on the Medicaid side.
Obviously you've seen a lot of RFPs.
And how much of what you're seeing -- I think certainly some of your competitors have seen some disruption in states.
How much of that disruption is a function of what the states are asking for because of their budget pressures or because of the competitive environment as far as the bidding process goes among your peers has gotten more competitive and kind of forced people to go to a spectrum they shouldn't be? I'll let Jack answer that.
But I think the budget issues are the prevailing.
Yes I would agree.
Jack Larsen.
So you opened your comments referring to some of the disruptions that some of our competitors had –- really it’s tough for us to comment on those particular disruptions.
We don't actually participate in those programs that have gotten some of the more recent focus.
I would say overall price rates are being pressured probably more so by state budget positions this year and then going into next year.
We certainly expect a fair amount of competitive give and take on new states.
I think we priced very thoughtfully on our new wins in Kansas most recently in Ohio.
But I would say overall it is just the continuing pressure on states trying to make more go farther than they have before.
I think you can really see it aligned to the budget status of the state.
Yes.
That's where you're going to have your problem.
And your next question comes from the line of Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups.
First on the commercial pricing environment and your kind of outlook for that segment.
I was hoping maybe you could just give us some perspective on this market from a pricing -- on the pricing side just in terms of the pricing environment today is rationally aggressive.
It's a term we've heard a lot over the years.
Can you maybe compare it to what we think of as the last pricing cycle that we saw let's call it 2006 through 2008? Maybe you can just give us some perspective there on how that looked.
And then on the commercial cost trends can you talk us through your cost trends by the 4 segments? And given you've lowered your commercial or at least took your commercial MLR targets at the lower end of the guidance does that mean that cost trends also coming in towards the lower end there especially given pricing doesn't seem to be all that great? Yes I think with the opening qualifier that the market circumstances and situation of a time is unique to its time.
So you really can't say "Oh this is 2000x or 19-something or other." So I think putting that aside I think we can offer some comments on that.
Gail? Sure.
Justin your question is comparing it to prior cycles.
I would look at that the environment is fundamentally different.
We're in a different regulatory environment with minimal medical loss ratios.
We didn't have that the last few years.
And quite frankly the utilization we’re coming out of.
So I don't see it necessarily as comparable to those cycles.
Plus as Steve said in his opening comments we remained I think very respectful of the pressures underlying pressures around unit costs and increasing utilization over time.
And then the impact of reform provisions as we go through 2013 and 2014.
So from that perspective we see people making decisions based on their view of minimum MLR rate regulation et cetera.
So that's why we're characterizing this and see it as a rational market.
A competitive one but rational.
And I guess I'll ask Dan to comment on your questions around utilization.
On a market-by-market if we would really analyze each market the activities are not -- are understandable right? Right.
Each market has different pressures facing it based on the dynamics of the competitors that are in that market and the products that they have.
And we've also managed our business very much on a market-to-market basis looking at both national trends but also putting products in those markets that make sense where we can be competitive.
Jeff.
I'm Dan Schumacher.
To follow up on your question on cost trends across all 3 of our businesses.
We've been talking obviously through the balance of 2011 and into 2012 that we were seeing increases in our medical trend largely due to increases in utilization and that's coming true and playing out.
We're seeing it across the platform.
You had also asked about I think the relationship of the loss ratio to trend.
With respect to our loss ratio on the commercial side we do expect it to be at the low end of the range that 82% plus or minus 50 basis points.
And our reported loss ratio has a host of factors influencing it.
When you look at the trend on more of a core basis our trend is coming in exactly where we expected it and that's at that 6% plus or minus 50 basis points.
And I would not update that to say anything other than in the mid-point of that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just my other follow-up was on the government segments.
And you're talking about -- I think you've taken a more conservative tone on the margins going forward.
And I was just hoping you could give us some color in terms of how those businesses are performing in the second quarter in Medicare Advantage and Medicaid.
Maybe talking either year-over-year or sequentially just been in terms of are you seeing any pressure on those business yet? Or are they coming in better or worse than expected? Just a at the moment comment would be great.
You bet.
This is Dan again.
On the second quarter as you look at it as compared to the performance in the same quarter last year our government programs in aggregate are performing better.
So we have -- they're contributing more earnings and they have a lower loss ratio in aggregate.
And then as you start to break it into the pieces our Medicare is actually performing a little better.
Our Medicaid is performing a little bit worse.
And the largest contributor to is the little bit more favorable development in the Medicare space.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could elaborate on the comment that you made about the change to the Medicare Star ratings after the bids were submitted and the pressure that would put on rates and margins in Medicare Advantage in '13? Sure.
Actually I think Tom can respond to that most effectively.
Sure.
As you know the Medicare program now has a Star rating program that includes a pay per performance.
And a lot of the performance that we're doing is more futuristic.
So we are working today for results in that bonus program that will actually be achieved in '15.
And so when you have that kind of gap in timeframe of performance to actual payment there can be changes in definitions in the meantime that may change that focus of your performance.
And so going into 2013 there was a change in definitions around some of the thresholds or some of the performance measures around the Star ratings which in many situations cause plans across the industry to have a lower performance lower Star rating than would have been achieved under the previous definition.
Research Division</strong> So you're essentially saying that the CMS made the requirements harder or higher to achieve and that's resulting in lower Star ratings? Yes it could have been a change in the level of requirement.
It could have been a change in priority for CMS.
Research Division</strong> Meaning a new metric that hadn't been looked up previously? Change in metrics or a change in weighting right? Yes.
It likely would be a change in the weighting or an increase in prioritization of a particular metric over another.
Your next question comes from the line of Melissa McGinnis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I believe UNH expected to incur something like $245 million in total investments related to...
I'm sorry could you get closer because we can't hear you? Research Division</strong> Yes I'm sorry about that.
I believe United expected to incur $245 million in investments for the OptumRx repatriation Optum broadly and TRICARE and then something like another $215 million in compliance costs.
Given this year given the commentary around some of that being accelerated into the first half can you provide any additional color maybe just how much of that we've seen in the first half versus how much is left to go in the second half? And then also beyond that how much of that we can really count on rolling off in the '13 potentially providing the tailwind to offset some of the gross margin pressures we've been talking about across the benefits business? Yes.
I would not suggest -- I think if that had been as meaningful as your question might suggest we would have responded to it specifically in the formal comments.
I think there has been some pull-through into the first.
But I can also tell you that we will continue to try to accelerate because we're trying to go as fast as we can particularly across Optum.
Dave you want to comment? I think Melissa you may be talking specifically a little bit about the cost to compliance that we outlined at the investor conference and then also some of the commentary we made in the first quarter and how that's shaking out.
So let me see if I can address this succinctly and then maybe give you a little bit more color.
So with respect to the ACA the law implementation actually we see those costs accelerating towards the last half of the year primarily as we prepare for the exchanges and the payment of rebates and things of that nature.
So you can expect an acceleration there.
Same goes -- it holds true for the PBM.
As you might suspect as we get to the kind of the last innings if you will in the preparation for that we're hiring people we're moving members onto our systems and incurring a lot of the operating costs in those final steps.
So you'll see that more towards the back half of the year.
50 10 [ph] we're done.
We finished that in Q1.
We finished clean.
It was a huge success for us.
And I think we set the bar for the industry there.
ICD-10 is pretty steady.
So net-net as you think about these costs of compliance we’re -- actually we’ll see more of those in the second half of the year than we see in the first.
Plus in the first quarter I think we outlined a couple of things and these are all really good news.
They may sound like bad news in terms of initial costs incurred but they're all related to the superior growth that UnitedHealthcare has been able to put in place.
So for TRICARE you're going to see a significant amount of operating cost in the back half of the year associated with getting ready for that program.
Those will carry over into the beginning part of '13 until we start earning a revenue on that case.
Medicaid for Ohio and Kansas obviously those wins are great but we have to prep and install them same thing with commercial on Nebraska and Texas.
So all of those things really are costs to implement.
It's all good news.
It may show up as a little bit of a deviation on the operating cost side but that's good.
And then the last thing I'd just remind you on the last half of the year we're seasonally high in our operating costs primarily as we get prepared for January and the more intensive medical utilization seasons as well as we get ready for AEPs with staffing and whatnot.
So expect overall in the operating cost side you'll see that operating cost ratio elevate over the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just to clarify.
As we head into '13 we talked a little bit about some of that investment coming out and some ongoing.
Is there any way that we can size maybe how to think about SG&amp;A in those investments as a headwind or tailwind into '13? I think what you're referring to is principally around OptumRx and that is the bulk of those will be incurred in 2012.
There will be some that will go into 2013 but on the comparative basis OptumRx should step up next year.
Dirk? Yes.
I mean what I would say is that as you pace into our migration schedule to begin on the first of 2013 and it paces throughout '13 we will have sort of operating and training costs ramped up consistent with that migration schedule.
So let's say there'll be a little bit of operating cost.
But if you look the majority of the development costs have occurred in 2012.
Your next question comes from the line of David Windley with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask one around kind of principally XLHealth and the integration progress you're making there on 2 fronts.
So first of all I understand that you're using some of their approaches in the more say chronic or co-morbid portion of your MA book.
And I wondered when the benefits to scoring might manifest from that activity? And then secondly in the context of XL Plus INSPIRIS and Evercare what progress have you made in kind of pulling those together into an integrated solution as it relates to presentations or pitches in dual eligible opportunities? I think it's a great question.
I would include our Medicaid capabilities in that as well.
But Tom do you want to start? Sure.
This is Tom.
And with the integration of XLHealth we're looking at it from 2 approaches.
The one that you didn't mention was really around the health plan side of the XLHealth so the Care Improvement Plus plans and how we're looking to leverage their focus and their capability and their market presence in 2013 which we definitely took advantage of in our bid offerings for 2013.
On the side you did mention we are expanding the capabilities around house calls and their integrated clinical care model through a broader Medicare Advantage population with the legacy Medicare &amp; Retirement population.
We are showing good progress in that.
The results of that the work we do in '12 will be realized on a -- realized in '13 as well as the clinical advantage that we get today in identifying early gaps in care from a medical management perspective.
We realize those now in 2012.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay super.
And then on the -- from a duals perspective? Yes those same capabilities.
Again I think we originally saw the XL capability as it's more geared toward the chronically ill.
But I think we are now looking at that differently and we're rolling it out more broadly in the Medicare space whether you're a dual eligible whether you're in a more traditional Medicare Advantage program where you can also benefit from that same house call visit.
And so we are incorporating that into our dual eligible offerings as well.
Wherever the needs really are challenging and the care paths can be most effectively applied.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So if I could follow up quickly on that is it possible to call out which states or perhaps even just quantify the number of states where you think the approach by the state will provide you with the opportunity to really show off your skill sets as opposed to say the California situation that's just going to existing vendors? Sure although I would say that when you really look at the compelling notion of how these capabilities ultimately align and integrate and the needs of the populations to be managed I think all the states will eventually come around.
So I really think it's a matter of pacing and whatever factors get -- complicate the pace in fact or whether they're political or otherwise I really think that at end of the day the states confronted with the challenges they have are going to have to embrace these kinds of capabilities.
They're better for their populations and they're much better for their programs.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Can I just ask on the Medicaid rate pressures? How does that intersect in your view with the federal statute for actuarially justified rates? Is that a backstop that you can turn to to some extent? And if you can give us any geographic detail on the rate pressures we'd appreciate it.
Right.
So I don't think we're going to offer geographic details because I think we long-term believe that the states will eventually find -- it will be interested in sustaining these programs.
The actuarial issue Jack do you want to respond? Sure.
So as you pointed out the actuarial soundness principle is always the backstop each year as states develop and release rates.
I guess I would just make a couple of observations around actuarial soundness.
One they do provide ranges.
And I think we have seen in our community and state business over year – over the years sort of a movement inside those ranges if you will from high to low.
And I would tell you that we are trending towards the lower side of the ranges most times.
And the second thing is around rate pressures.
There's a number of I would say there's a range as to what you assume from Managed Care savings long term.
And there is a significant amount of judgment applied to that and most notably in new state entrants where states are doing their very best to anticipate what Managed Care savings might be.
So those 2 things are certainly big variables in actuarial soundness but we're seeing sort of points all in between.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That makes a lot of sense.
And if I could just ask just one follow-up a clarification really.
As you talked about the cost trend at 6% plus or minus 50 basis points I got a little confused on where you said you're coming in at that on a reported basis but at the lower end on some other basis.
Dan maybe you could just clarify what you had meant about that? Sure.
Sorry Matt.
Let me try it again.
So on the loss ratio on the commercial side we expect it to be on the lower end of our guidance.
So 82% plus are minus 50 on the lower end.
With respect to our trend outlook full year commercial trend outlook we're not making any revisions to that.
We expect it to be at 6% plus or minus 50 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Wouldn't you expect both of those together? Sorry maybe I'm splitting hairs too much.
There are other issues that affect those.
Yes.
So I was trying to get at is there are differences between those things that show up in our reported loss ratio in terms of how we look at quarter trend.
So I'm saying they're not moving exactly the same.
Loss ratios’s lower than the guidance our trend we expect to be at 6% plus or minus 50.
Yes.
Just for one for instance the rebate adjustment in the first quarter would have affected the loss ratio but not the core medical trend.
Your next question comes from the line of Christine Arnold with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I missed this just let me know because I had some phone challenges.
Payables versus premiums.
I know that they can fluctuate a little bit.
Were there any timing issues in the quarter on the payables that you'd like to highlight? Because it looks like adjusting for PDP in prior period development payables didn't quite keep up with premiums.
And then Steve at your Investor Day you made some interesting observations about 2014 and how reinsurance and risk adjustment could help to keep small players from dumping.
Can you update us on your 2014 broad thoughts recognizing that we're not in the position to make any specific projections? I'll do the best I can on that.
Dave maybe you want to comment on the payable? Christine I'm not really seeing anything on the payables versus premiums front that's unusual in the quarter other than the fact that we acquired Medicare and Preferred Care and had to put those in our financial statements.
And then could you remind me about what specifically you wanted to probe about 2014? Because I [indiscernible].
LLC Research Division</strong> Well you made some comments about small players probably not being incentivized at some point in the exchange given risk adjustment and reinsurance.
And also tax advantages.
And you had some broad thoughts about how you thought that the structure of the exchanges would protect small groups from dumping and help to protect some profitability there.
So I'm just wondering now that we have a little bit more data not much but a little bit more and spend some time studying it? Actually we probably don't have any more information.
And quite honestly I would say that the implementation landscape has probably become more complicated because it's clear that there will be some pacing in terms of how this will be implemented as states have seem to have more flexibility and the administration seems to be more flexible in terms of how these will go in.
But if there is going to be any sector that is going to pursue the exchanges it's going to be on this very much smaller.
And when you then take a look at that I think that the pacing of that if you're a prudent businessperson you're not going to necessarily go right to that if you have benefits.
It might be those who have not had benefits in the past that will pursue the exchange.
And then if you are an established business you might be more prudent in terms of watching how that plays itself out.
You do get tax deductibility on benefits.
Your employees are paying 20% 25% of the total cost of these benefits so that the company is subsidizing 75%.
When you begin to go to the exchanges there clearly will have to be a re-leveling on wages.
I think employers will look at that and believe that they perhaps have a more control over their benefits than they might have if they lose those benefits and have to make compensation adjustments for health care that they no longer control.
I think those -- when you really get into the heads of the business operators that they’ll be measured in terms of how their response is for those that have benefits and have been committed to benefits in the past.
That's why I think that things perhaps will move into more measured pace.
And I think the implementation now is clearly challenging given the time frames that we have left.
So if there's an update that's all I'd offer.
Gail? I think Steve hit the key points.
The first one we still don't -- there's a lot of unknown still around the exchanges.
And two as you think about the ranges that many experts have given on dumping from 30% to low single-digits we do think it's going to be at the lower end of that range for the reason Steve talked about the tax advantage that the employers have the impacts of what employees pay right now and the penalties.
So that will mute we think many of the people moving to the exchanges quickly in the beginning.
It may firm up over time but it will take time.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So 2 quick ones.
One just looking at medical services CPI there was a pretty big uptick in June.
And it was driven a lot by the hospital inpatient component.
It seems kind of strange that you’d get kind of one month move like that.
So I'm just curious are you seeing anything on the hospital pricing side that's different? Hospital pricing side? In terms of our negotiations with hospitals I think we've shared this with you before.
I mean we're coming in in line with the expectations we set.
There's clearly pressure.
There's been pressure on the unit cost side.
We're moving much more of our payment to pay per performance along the broad continuum.
So always pressure in the system but I wouldn't say anything has dramatically changed and we're doing well against the expectations we set as well as trying to move much more of our pay to pay per performance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just on the 2013 national account front.
I didn't hear much.
I'm just curious if you guys have a -- I know it's still a little early but you guys are probably moving through the process.
Any updates on how the pipeline looks and any sort of initial expectations for Jan 1? Jeff Alter? It's Jeff Alter.
What we've seen over the last few years is that the clients in this marketplace are really looking for a long-term partner who can deliver practical innovations like our health care cost estimator and our mobility platform coupled with distinctive service and new models of outreach to help their employees navigate the health care system in an easier way.
And they're really looking for that long-term partner who can manage their benefits and their medical trend even more important during this time of enormous change.
And we performed really well over the last couple of years with this stack up.
We continue to perform well.
We still have -- although I know your question was '13 but we still have over 500 000 members in this space to bring up between now and 1/1/13.
And then it is early.
And we're in the middle of the selling season for 2013.
But all indications are that our past success will continue in the 1/1 season.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you guys were up somewhere in the ballpark of 800 000 in the first quarter.
Is that sort of your baseline run rate target? Or is there anything that indicates next year will be better or worse than what we saw this year? Josh we're not offering 2013 guidance today.
So I think we'll -- I would just say I think the market -- our service to that market continues to be strong and we'll comment on 2013 when we get to the Investor Conference.
Okay? So I think we should close now.
I would hope that you would take away a few key points.
First that UnitedHealth Group continued to deliver a performance in the second quarter and for the first half of '12.
But we remain focused and realistic considering the challenging economic and market environment that we face today.
Second we continue to focus on providing consistent value innovation and dependable execution on behalf of the customers and consumers in everything we do.
We remain committed to improving quality and access while helping to contain the rising cost of care so that health care experience is simpler and more affordable.
And lastly we look to the -- looking to the future we see markets expanding steadily for health benefits and exponentially for health services.
So while we acknowledge the increasing competitive and regulatory pressures ahead we believe our adaptable diversified businesses are well positioned to grow the market and that we'll continue to grow and to prosper over the long term.
We thank you very much for your attention today.
And we'll see you next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
I will be your conference operator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here is some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
This call will also reference non-GAAP amounts.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP to GAAP amounts is available on our financial reports and SEC filings section of the company's Investors page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated October 16 2012 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review our third quarter results.
Third quarter revenues were $27.3 billion increasing 8% year-over-year again this quarter.
Earnings grew 28% to $1.50 per share benefiting from strong revenue growth and improved operating margins.
Our third quarter 2012 operating margin of 9.6% reflects strong performance on clinical affordability and favorable reserve developments resulting in the consolidated medical care ratio of 79%.
Sharp margin improvement at Optum further contributed to the 140 basis point expansion in consolidated operating margin.
Operating costs grew seasonally to 15.7% of revenues.
Execution across our enterprise continues to be strong and our financial flexibility remains distinctive.
Adjusted cash flows from operations of $2.4 billion in the third quarter brought year-to-date cash flow to $5.5 billion a 9% year-over-year advance.
We ended the quarter at the ratio of debt to debt plus equity of 30% and have $1.6 billion in nonregulated cash on hand.
Last week we announced our merger with Amil the leading Brazilian health care company.
We see expansive early-stage market opportunities there and we expect Amil will become a distinctive growth platform for both our Health Benefits and Health Services segments.
The rating agencies all reaffirmed our ratings subsequent to our announcement.
Standard &amp; Poor's had upgraded our corporate debt rating to A with a stable outlook in September; making UnitedHealth Group the highest-rated publicly traded managed care organization they follow.
Our unique business diversity was key factor for S&amp;P along with strong cash flow generated from operations.
And also during the quarter we were honored to be added to the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
Let's review third quarter performance by business beginning with UnitedHealthcare which advanced third quarter revenues 8% year-over-year to $25.5 billion and operating earnings 26% to $2.2 billion.
UnitedHealthcare has added 2 million people through the first 9 months of 2012.
This includes net growth of 670 000 people this quarter alone record organic growth for a third quarter.
Major new clients this quarter included the initiation of health benefit services for state employees in Texas and Nebraska.
We're honored to serve the employees of these states and their families.
UnitedHealthcare grew fee-based commercial benefits by 1.5 million people in the third quarter bringing 9-month growth to 1.25 million people.
Commercial risk-based business remained flat this quarter.
The commercial environment continues to be characterized by persistently weak employment and new business formation.
The pricing intensity we see at local market levels remains unchanged from the last several quarters.
Our offerings remain very competitive across the value spectrum due to our strong cost positions effective care management operating cost disciplines and innovative benefit designs and features.
But we will remain disciplined on margins and continue to price to our forward view of underlying costs including the insurer's fee.
As we hold to these pricing disciplines we expect to continue to lose moderate levels of risk-based membership in the near term as we have for the last several quarters.
Our Medicare and Medicaid businesses contributed strongly to UnitedHealthcare's third quarter growth performance together adding more than 165 000 people over the last 90 days.
We grew by 35 000 seniors in Medicare Advantage and 70 000 Medicaid beneficiaries joined UnitedHealthcare plans.
We made the decision together with the state of Wisconsin to end our contract serving 175 000 people in one product in the Milwaukee market as of November 1 while we continue to serve 125 000 people statewide.
UnitedHealthcare Community &amp; State was awarded the opportunity to serve more than 20 000 dual eligible beneficiaries in Ohio beginning in April of 2013.
This was part of the country's first Medicare and Medicaid eligible program award integrating all services from comprehensive medical to long-term care to pharmacy benefits to behavioral health.
We offer all of these services and are deeply experienced and skilled in integrating them to better respond to challenges for these beneficiaries.
UnitedHealthcare's 8.6% operating margins strengthened ahead of both our expectations and last year's third quarter results.
Our full year 2012 commercial medical cost trend benchmark is likely to come in around 5.5% plus or minus 50 basis points.
Third quarter earnings benefited from reserve development and we now project a full year 2012 consolidated medical care ratio in the range of 80.5% based on the strong year-to-date results and the sharp seasonal increase in cost expected in the fourth quarter.
We believe our consumer education and engagement efforts and our clinical management and affordability programs are meaningfully impacting the cost curve for our businesses.
With benefit design improvements and effective outreach and population health management we're increasingly helping patients receive care from the best doctors and have better suited more cost-appropriate sites of services.
We have also grown our performance-based payment programs which are approaching an annual run rate of $17 billion or 18% of our in-network medical spend and our ability to detect inaccuracies and erred in claim submission and therefore to pay more fairly and appropriately for services rendered.
Together these capabilities deliver fundamental value to clients by improving the overall affordability of the products they buy.
Looking ahead to 2013 UnitedHealthcare's business plan is built on record customer growth led by TRICARE and National Accounts and strong performance in the public and senior sector.
We expect UnitedHealthcare's performance in the Public and Senior Markets will be highlighted by continued market competitive Medicare Advantage offerings continued Medicaid expansions and the compelling new Medicare Part D product offering that fully leverages our PBM capabilities.
We expect commercial risk business to continue to be down moderately in a price-sensitive market as we adjust our pricing to reflect our forward view of medical costs trends and cost increases for the insurance fee provisions of the Affordable Care Act.
We continue to expect generally lower gross margin percentage across UnitedHealthcare's risk-based businesses in 2013 as we said last quarter.
For the longer term our view remains strongly positive.
We believe UnitedHealthcare is building a distinctive health benefits franchise by aligning benefit design consumer engagement clinical program management and network usage.
This alignment continues to deliver sustainable cost and performance advantages growth and deeper richer relationships with consumers and physicians across all benefit categories.
Moving to Health Services.
Optum continues to progress steadily in line with the long-term expectations we set out nearly a year ago at our Investor Conference.
Even in these initial stages as the enterprise becomes what we refer to as One Optum the results foreshadow some of the acceleration and impact of expanded capacities that will become even more apparent as it matures in 2013 and 2014.
Optum's third quarter revenues were $7.2 billion and operating earnings of $408 million grew 28% year-over-year.
Importantly all segments showed year-over-year and sequential quarterly operating margin gains benefiting from growth and from the simplification and integration investments made in the first half of this year.
The initiatives and investments that underline the One Optum strategy continue and should benefit 2013 and '14.
Third quarter revenue growth was led by OptumHealth up 19% year-over-year; and OptumInsight up 15% year-over-year.
Optum Insight's revenue backlog continues to grow and now stands at $4.5 billion up more than $700 million or 19% year-over-year.
The depth and quality of our customer relationships are increasing as the market becomes more familiar with our Optum offerings.
Some examples of new third quarter sales illustrate Optum's diverse and broad market reach.
For a specialty drug maker we will measure over multiple years the in-market clinical performance of a high-profile product.
For a major care delivery system we will provide technology and services to enable the development of competencies in population health and risk management.
For a variety of health plans we will deliver medical care to members through our integrated care clinics.
For employers and freestanding drug benefit programs we'll manage pharmacy benefits including their rebate programs.
And many more examples could be offered.
Optum is making steady progress in strengthening its margins by addressing its overall cost structure operating processes and deeper product and business integration.
We are committed to a higher performance more responsive more agile enterprise consistent with results that have been realized over the years through similar approaches applied at UnitedHealthcare.
We expect these improvements will strengthen performance for customers and unlock the scale advantage that should accrue from Optum's strong sustainable top line growth.
We have added seasoned talented executives and aligned the organization to support more comprehensive solutions and deeper customer partnerships.
We are focusing product development on these larger broader opportunities while continue to execute on always important individual product sales day in and day out.
Our long-term view for Optum's potential remains exceptionally positive.
This is a competency-based platform with leading assets that are applicable to serving a broad variety of channels.
Serving customer relationships across the full expense of a health system that needs to evolve and improve performance.
We operate in an emerging health services marketplace characterized by fragmented suppliers who typically are offering narrow products instead of broader-based solutions.
If we focus on our clients and the challenges they face and deliver strong execution around solutions Optum has dramatic growth potential.
So in sum 2012 continues to be a strong year for our enterprise at this point.
Our results show growth and balance across virtually all our businesses.
We have achieved revenue growth further diversification and stronger margins and we continue to develop and position our businesses and business leaders for the future.
With Tom Paul taking an important new role as UnitedHealthcare's Chief Consumer Officer and Jack Larsen and Steve Nelson both strong veteran leaders now running respectively Medicare &amp; Retirement and Community &amp; State for UnitedHealthcare 2012 should finish out strongly.
The fourth quarter is challenging from a seasonality perspective and as you know bears a heavy cost burden as we prepare for new January volumes and related benefit changes and as we work through the intense Medicare selling and enrollment season.
That said excluding any potential impact from Amil we expect the year 2012 to end in a revenue range approaching $110 billion and an earnings per share range of $5.20 to $5.25 per share with strong operating cash flows of approximately $7 billion.
Quarter-by-quarter across the UnitedHealth Group UnitedHealthcare and Optum platforms we have been improving our products and services executing more consistently and more strongly diversifying steadily and regularly advancing innovations to better serve the needs of our customers.
Organic growth has been strong and distinctive in both 2011 and 2012.
Medical and operating costs have been well managed with more opportunities in front of us.
And as a result we've been consistently delivering more value to the wide diverse and growing customer base be serve.
We expect strong execution to continue in 2013.
But as we have said in previous calls given the weak business climate and employment outlook in the United States the mounting pressures in federal state budgets to mention just a few some of the challenges we continue to be cautious about 2013 earnings performance.
We expect to grow revenues and earnings per share in 2013 but we view the current consensus level as the considerable challenge from this distance given these market conditions.
We certainly expect to continue to grow broadly across our businesses in 2013 with the exception of commercial risk-based membership.
We continue to expect pressure on margins across all benefit markets.
We have TRICARE implementation and PBM in sourcing to add to the operating challenges as well as the growth opportunities.
Optum should remain rock solid on its plan to continue to increase its contribution to our overall performance.
And Amil is expected to be slightly accretive but not really expected to be much of a factor in the earnings next year.
2012 had significant favorable performance attributes starting with favorable medical cost trends reserve development and rebate true-ups that we cannot assume will carry into 2013 with similar levels of impact.
We will introduce our first view of 2013 to you at our Investor Conference in just over a month from now.
As 2012 closes we continue to generate significant growth momentum.
Our customers are responding to the distinctive competencies that underlie products and services access from both UnitedHealthcare and Optum.
We will continue to focus on fundamental execution with the goal of creating value both for those we serve and for shareholders.
In the meantime our team is here to take your questions about market development and 2012 performance.
Please let's hold to one question per person.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Matt Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just wanted to ask you about the commercial pricing and cost trend environment.
I mean in particular of course we noticed the lower outlook on trend now at 5.5% down from your prior outlook.
Can you just talk through the components of your view that changed during the quarter and also maybe just dovetail that with whether you've seen any change on the pricing side as well? Sure I think Dan might be the best to be begin that.
Matt this is Dan Schumacher.
So on the cost trend side stepping into 2012 we did have an expectation of higher utilization as compared to 2011.
We are actually seeing that although I will tell you it is more moderate than we thought.
We saw a surge in the first quarter utilization and then that moderated from the second quarter forward.
And I think beyond the consumer behaviors underneath that I think what we are seeing is some really strong contributions from our medical affordability agenda.
We work across the health care landscape whether it be inpatient management focused on the most appropriate site of service most appropriate course of treatment all the way through to payment integrity; fraud waste and abuse; and strong delivery frankly from our contracting aligning more around value and quality outcomes.
So all of those things are making a difference for us.
As you look at the components of it I guess I would take you back to the Investor Conference guidance and update the components from there.
First on inpatient we are seeing a little better inpatient.
Again that's really our strong management on 1-day lengths of stay observations conversions and things like that.
We are seeing a little bit more moderate pharmacy utilization particularly in the space of Hep C.
We're seeing relatively stable position and outpatient is actually a little bit higher than our expectation.
And we continue to have strong programs really focused on the site of service behind the outpatient setting.
So all of that informs our revised view of 5.5% plus or minus 50 basis points.
And then I think I'll turn to Jeff to talk a little bit about the pricing environment.
Matt it's Jeff Alter.
Yes on a general basis we have said this before we expected and have been seeing a more competitive market environment around commercial pricing.
I don't think it's changed.
It's about the same as it has been since the first few quarters of this year.
So not really a market change in the third quarter.
But as you know our approach hasn't changed for a very long time.
Our approach and discipline remain intact.
And as Steve mentioned we believe the result of that will be some loss of commercial risk-based membership over the next call it 6 months.
And in relation to the discussion or the answer that Dan gave we have a very disciplined process that takes a forward view of costs.
And as medical trend changes and expectations change and some of those results change we look across those 350 intersections of MLR.
And then look at a couple other factors and try to come up with the answer that will optimize our results in each one of those given markets.
So that has remained unchanged.
What has changed I think internally is we are able to get some of these changes into our pricing much quicker than we had in the past.
So...
And we'll go next to Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to talk a little bit about the commentary you made on 2013 consensus.
Steve you mentioned that that will be a challenge.
I think the consensus first is the mid-point of your current -- of your updated 2012 is about 7% growth.
So I guess a couple of things on that.
We've heard from the company before that it's a double-digit earnings grower.
Are we just -- in sort of last couple of years we're just sort of not seeing necessarily all of that if you take out some of these one timers? So are we thinking about the growth trajectory wrong? You guys seem comfortable that Optum is still on pace to double by '15.
And then I guess you mentioned pricing for the industry fee.
Is that having a bigger effect? Is there a net income impact next year? And maybe specifically how you plan on accounting for that? Well Josh I think that is like 6 questions rolled into 1.
I really commend you for that.
Our view in terms of the outlook of our business is unchanged.
We have seen these kinds of challenges in the marketplace and I think we have been successful in navigating through them over the last couple of years.
But that doesn't deter us from recognizing that we need to continue to operate and focus on that basis that the economic environment has not changed the employment outlook really has not changed.
It doesn't appear to us to be -- the reimbursement environment relative to the federal and state budgets arguably has gotten even more intense.
The impact of the reform act including the insurance fee really begins to get in -- to come into play as we set to begin the rate development process for 2013.
So we are respectful of those elements and intend to engage them and to perform to our maximum potential through those and are perhaps more cautious than those who set consensus of those factors at this distance as we look into 2013.
If you actually take a look at our actual performance I think it has been pretty strong over the last couple of years and we are certainly focused and actually think we are more capable and stronger than we have been in those past years.
But we have to strike an appropriate balance there.
And that's really all we are saying.
We expect to grow revenue in earnings in 2013.
We're really not intending to give you more specifics or color on 2013 guidance other than to maintain a sober balance in terms of some of the headwinds that we see.
And on a from a growth perspective we consider these to be kind of the headwinds of perhaps the next couple of years.
But if you really take a look at the growth potential of this enterprise the market expansions that are in front of it over the long term Optum is performing well.
It is maturing.
It is gaining momentum.
And we fully expect to be in line with our kind of the guidance the longer-term guidance we set at last year's Investor Conference.
So no discouragement along those lines and I don't know what else to offer.
Research Division</strong> I understand Steve you're not going to give sort of specific guidance.
But you talked about industry fees so I'm just curious what the impact there is? Are you -- is there a specific percentage you're assuming that the fee will come in at as a percentage of premiums? And are you accruing for that in '13? Is that the idea? Well so it's coming into play in 2013 because it applies in that fashion.
Maybe Dan Schumacher can address the insurance fee.
Sure.
So with respect to the accounting the insurance fee is assessed in 2014 based on 2013 premiums.
So we will begin at -- accruing for it in 2014 as premiums are earned and we will actually make the payment in January of 2014.
So that's kind of mechanically how it works.
Research Division</strong> And you're accruing in '14? No we're accruing in '14 for the fee.
With respect to pricing in the commercial business we have annual policies.
So those policies that begin February forward in 2013 they have months that carry then into 2014.
So we are increasingly reflecting the health insurance tax in those renewals so that we capture the cost of that tax in '14 in our premiums in '13.
And we'll go next to Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up here on the commentary specifically around the revenue growth.
Yes obviously a strong year here across just about all the businesses on the membership side.
Is there anything you can talk to just in terms of anything we should be thinking about structurally in terms of the growth that you saw in 2011 or should I say 2012 that may or may not continue into 2013 and whether that's the strong commercial ASO business? That Medicare Advantage results? Yes I know you had a good Part D bidding season.
Just curious if there's anything we should be thinking about in terms of nonrepetitive? I think I'll let Gail and Larry comment with respect to their business platforms but the item that we really highlighted is really no different than '12 and that is continued moderation in terms of commercial risk.
But Gail do you want to...
Thanks Steve.
From an overall perspective as you've seen from the benefits side of the business we've had a very strong growth trajectory over the last several years including this year in 2012.
As we think about the positioning of each of our businesses certainly we're coming and still into the final pieces of our selling season for 2013 but feel we're well positioned in the commercially ASO side and think we will have another strong national account season.
Again that's part of the positioning around our consumer facing products our value-based benefit design the innovation that we're bringing to the market.
So we feel positive about our positioning in the commercial ASO side.
As Steve mentioned in his opening comments around commercial risk it's a very competitive market we're seeing extremely disciplined around that pricing components of that and we'd expect to see membership decline.
But again feel good about the positioning of our products in each of our local markets.
On the Medicare &amp; Medicaid side from our -- as you know we're just starting into the AEP season.
Again we feel we have a very balanced offering in the marketplace feel good about our Medicare positioning and Medicare Advantage had a very strong Medicare Supplement business this year and we'd expect to continue to see strong performance there and feel we have a balanced offering in Part D as well.
On Medicaid we've continued to win procurements.
And again that is a market where we know that states are facing some significant budget challenges.
We see opportunities.
We're pleased with the win that we had in Ohio on the dual eligibles as well as the state Medicaid and the procurements there and continue to get very focused on affordability and providing I think strong offerings to our State partners both across Medicaid and Medicare.
So overall from a growth perspective getting back to your question I think we feel well positioned but recognize the competitive nature of the marketplace and are very respectful of that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So the kind of net answer here sounds like the business momentum feels just as strong going into 2013 as it was going in -- as it kind of has continued to be during 2012.
And the commercial risk business is the area where you see pressure and that's no different than what you're seeing this year in terms of the economy.
Is that a fair way to look at it? Well I won't comment on '13 guidance but I'll tell you that we do feel we're well positioned.
And you've only heard part of the story because Larry Renfro can speak to the Optum side.
I think everybody knows that we have a 3-year business plan that we're operating under.
We call it Becoming One Optum.
And if you look at that plan and you look at the execution that we've been achieving this year there's really 4 areas that'll give you a little detail behind that.
One being financial discipline/cost management; two being reengineering/organizational simplification; three being portfolio management; and four being growth.
So I think in terms of your question you were more geared towards the growth.
So let me just give you a couple of comments.
We do feel pretty well positioned.
I think if you look this quarter OptumHealth was up about 19%.
OptumInsight up about 15% with OptumInsight's backlog being up about 19%.
But if you look at growth where we see it coming from in the future as part of our plan it'll be the PBM it'll be care delivery the retail/consumer and provider.
So we feel pretty good about the overall plan.
We feel pretty good about the execution in 2012 and looking forward to some results in the future.
So overall I'd say pretty positive.
And we'll go next to Ana Gupte with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> The question is about cost trend both around utilization as well as unit cost.
So can you give me some color first around the reserve development which is very favorable compared to some of your peers in recent quarters by segment Medicare/Medicaid commercial and if utilization is equally weak and well-controlled in all segments? And then on the unit cost side given that we've got now 40% of docs owned by hospitals per the recent advisory board data Sutter Long Island Jewish New York Montefiore and many others are beginning to apply for health plan licenses are you seeing any pressure on your unit cost? And how do you see that evolving in the next 1 to 3 years? Dan? Hi Ana.
This is Dan Schumacher.
So let me take the pieces of that.
First with respect to the reserve development.
I think it's important to share that our fundamental discipline has not changed.
So we have a comprehensive reserve setting process.
It's consistent.
It's stable.
And each month each quarter we are trying to sort out our best estimate of the ultimate claims expense.
And as a result we don't have an expectation of future favorable development.
And as you look at it on a year-to-date basis we'll get it in relation to prior year medical spend and so forth it's about 1% so in a relatively reasonable range.
In terms of the things that are contributing to the development I'd say first on the utilization side as I mentioned we saw a surge in utilization in the first quarter and some moderation in the second quarter forward.
And that's true across Medicare Medicaid and commercial.
And that contributed to our development.
We also continue to have improving processing speed as well as processing quality.
That's showing up in the form of reserve development.
And then beyond that our performance around our affordability agenda.
So we take a prudent approach as we introduce programs.
We wait to see that manifest in actual claims payment.
And then that starts to impact our reserve results.
And so you're seeing favorable development across kind of those 3 things.
As you look at the composition of trend between cost and utilization utilization is a little bit better than we expected and I would likewise say that unit cost is a little bit better than expectation.
On the commercial side specifically it remains an area of intense pressure for us and it represents more than 2/3 of our trend outcome each year so it is a very meaningful part of our trend equation.
But I will tell you that on the unit cost side we are doing a little bit better than we thought.
We think that's in part due to the reconfiguration of our payment aligning it with performance and quality and value.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So its default being you're turning more to shed savings risk-based contracting if I may just close that off? Yes we're working up the continuum so starting in fee-for-service and then working towards shared savings and gain sharings up through bundle in episode relatively sub-capitations and capitations and so forth working to align the incentives across the continuum.
And we rely heavily on our partners in Optum to help to provide those services and support tools for the delivery system to be able to meet us where we want a contract.
And we'll go next to Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Steve I wanted to clarify a comment that you made in the prepared remarks.
You said that you would expect commercial risk business to be down moderately next year and I wanted to understand better if that was referring to top line or margin because it sounded like you thought the intensity of pricing and competition was continuing and cost would be up next year.
So looking at those 2 pieces together where do we end up from a margin perspective? Sure I think Gail can respond to this.
Sure.
What Steve was referring to is that as you know this year we're down in enrollment over 25 000 lives on risk-based.
And as Jeff said in his comments to the earlier question we expect to continue to be a competitive environment and we would expect enrollment to be down.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So the comment was directed at enrollment not at margins? Yes.
It was at enrollment yes.
We'll go next to Ralph Giacobbe with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just want to go back to cost trend.
I know you took it down a bit.
Maybe can you talk about what you expect on the inpatient and outpatient side of what you're seeing in terms of trend there? And then you mentioned sort of the shift to inpatient outpatient.
How much of that is really driving the lower cost what you're doing to help that push? And if at all if you can frame sort of the savings in aggregate on a like-for-like basis.
Dan you want to cover that again? Sure.
So with respect to the categories where we're seeing utilization up we're seeing it up in the outpatient setting and that is in part due to some of the management programs we have in place.
So we focus on converting one day lengths of stay to a more efficient setting to observation status.
So they flip from inpatient to outpatient and that was what I was talking about with respect to our management programs.
And then on the inpatient side we are seeing continuously restrained utilization.
Our bed days were actually flat to declining and each of our benefits businesses and those things extend through from admissions the length of stay as well as focused on the readmission rates so that when you leave the hospital you're able to stay home.
And again that's an example of a partnership with Optum where their care management teams are working to transition people to the home setting and help them stay there.
Those are some of the examples of the things that we're doing that are making a difference inside of our cost trends.
Research Division</strong> And then just -- again on the 5.5% I guess I'm just trying to get a sense.
Does that equate to inpatient being up 4% and outpatient being up 9% or can you help in that regard? Just trying to get a sense of the magnitude when you talk about inpatient and outpatient given that you lowered the trend? Well so you when you're talking about the trend you got to take into account unit cost and utilization.
On the utilization side specifically inpatient is actually down outpatient is up.
On the unit cost side most of our unit cost increases come in the inpatient setting.
That's where our increases are coming from.
So when you blend that all together as I mentioned before balanced against our Investor Conference guidance better in inpatient better in pharmacy relatively stable in physician and higher in outpatient.
And we'll go next to Melissa McGinnis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> 2012 is definitely a year of investment not just around your Optum segment but also in preparation for certain regulatory changes and reform implementation in 2014.
Can you just help us think about any incremental investments you may still need to make as we head into 2013 and whether there's any sort of step function change up or down in your SG&amp;A as we head into next year? So let me see if I can understand the question.
As we continue to prepare for adopting and embracing the healthcare reform changes and continue the activities in our business such as in-sourcing our PBM et cetera I guess you're asking us where our cost -- you're looking for an increase in cost or something like that is that...
Research Division</strong> Yes sort of just how we think about your SG&amp;A especially around those types of investments as we move from '12 into '13.
I think '12 has actually had a reasonable burden with respect to those kinds of investments and I think that much of it will carry through into 2013 and probably subside more in the latter stages of it but I think an area that's most impacted by those kinds of activities is Optum.
So maybe I'll ask Larry or John Rex to kind of comment.
Sure.
If you -- and I think that most people know that we have spent the last couple of years designing the PBM operational platform as well as the infrastructure to move the UHC business onto our platforms.
So 2012 ended up being the strong year for us to invest.
That investment should start to wind down at the end of this year and there'll be some lag into 2013 but we feel pretty good about where we're at with that.
It's perfectly on plan.
So that's pretty much it.
John I don't know if there's anything else.
Yes so what I would add to that Larry is that you're absolutely right this is Dirk McMahon.
In 2012 we had probably our highest SG&amp;A burden associated with investments in the insourcing but in 2013 we'll also have some expenses associated with training our people as we bring them into deal with the membership that we will ratably bring in throughout 2013.
Larry just to follow-on here I think in the first half of the year we made comments in the first 2 quarters about the investments we're making across the broader business in addition to OptumRx.
We expect to continue to make those investments and I think from what you're seeing in this quarter as we're starting to realize some of the benefits that we would expect to continue to make with investments that we work out into 2013 also.
But nothing -- but basically continuation nothing...
In continuation that kind of levels it out...
And how about on the UnitedHealthcare side? It's Gail Boudreaux.
In the UnitedHealthcare side you'll continue to see there's some investments stable investments in Reform so you think about ongoing investments in ICD-10.
In addition we made investments this year in 2012 in helping to standup the TRICARE contract and we will continue to make those as we prepare to serve that membership in March of 2013 and those investments will -- getting that contract ready to stand up will also flow into 2013.
And we'll go next to Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> You guys talked about Optum growing and margins continuing to improve and then SG&amp;A being perhaps higher in '12 than maybe in '13 or at least similar but not growing and talk about building the insurance fee into the commercial risk business.
I'm trying to gauge why the pressure on EPS growth making earnings growth -- the consensus numbers challenging for 2013.
It comes sort of down to the Medicare business and we look at that and you clearly have some very good margin in the Medicare business or certainly lower medical loss ratio.
Are you sort of expecting a much weaker margin in Medicare for next year sort of getting ready for the MLR minimums in 2014? Is that the way to think about this? Yes no maybe I could reset.
I think if you go back to a commentary we have made really over the last couple of years really it is -- we're responding to an environment that is broadly challenging and where we have been successful navigating those challenges.
Those challenges remain and the economic environment remains and the pressure on budgets remain.
And the pressure on making sure that we execute flawlessly with respect to -- we just mentioned the TRICARE contract or the PBM in-sourcing staying on the One Optum plan those kinds of elements which we have a lot of respect for the work that goes into executing across those and basically we remind the market each quarter about those challenges and we approach things perhaps more cautiously than the marketplace and I think that's what we are suggesting.
We are really not -- you are perhaps overanalyzing if you're trying to focus down on a single product line.
We're actually pretty positive about the breadth of our business very positive about our Medicare and Medicaid outlook and potential.
Actually very positive with respect to commercial.
If you take a look at the commercial market broadly it has been at best treading water or if not contracting from that perspective.
So we're just reminding the marketplace of those challenges in light of very very strong results.
So that really is the goal here not -- there is no lack of confidence with respect to our competitiveness in the marketplace our ability to prosper under all the product lines we have right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just getting back to the minimum MLRs in Medicare can you address that a little bit in terms of how well you think you are prepared? I know we don't even know how that's going to be calculated at this point but in terms of your expectation for how that's going to work going forward what kind of pressure do see on margins in the Medicare business in 2014 if not sooner? Actually we feel pretty good about that.
Gail? Yes I think -- this is Gail Boudreaux again.
I think you said at first we don't have the exact calculation yet for how the minimum MLR will be applied in Medicare but it is obviously one of those factors that as we get into 2013 and prepare our bids for 2014 we'll take that into consideration along with a number of other factors but to be more specific would you expect to be able to manage within it.
And if I would add one other element to the thinking is the '12 has had a lot of favorable elements to it and as I said in the prepared remarks you cannot necessarily assume that those will play into '13 as strongly as they did in '12.
We will continue to operate in endeavor to achieve that but that's an element of caution that we also give.
So I wouldn't over read our caution.
I would just think that we have to regularly remind ourselves and remind the marketplace of the issues.
And we'll go next to Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just want to go back to the industry fee pricing commentary.
So you guys are starting to price for the industry fee starting next year but there's no actual fee until 2014.
So shouldn't that be a tailwind to 2013 MLRs? Dan review that again.
You're right Kevin that will provide a little bit of help in 2013 as we collected our premiums the cost of that tax in 2014 in the commercial space.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
Maybe I was misreading it but it sounded to me like you were saying it gives you a feel there's some sort of headwind that had to be dealt with.
It's actually just more on the commercial membership side that you're talking about? And if you believe that it is in some ways a headwind on the commercial membership does that mean that some of your competitors I guess most of the non-profits because the for-profits have kind of indicated a similar pricing dynamic to use.
Does it mean that some of the non-profits are not following that strategy? We really can't comment.
We don't really know the strategies others are following.
This is an element that is part of our rate development.
The headwinds we talk about are a fact of the market coming to grips with this element of pricing as it goes into our rate development process.
So really that's what we are talking about.
You're right about it being a tailwind in terms of that element and we really aren't going to comment about how others are going to approach this.
Any further things to add? Yes I just think Kevin that the pressure that we're talking about is really the increase in pressure on -- pressure on already strained employer consumers federal and state governments.
It's really the pressure it adds to the system as it adds another cost in the environment.
And I think just in terms of how this is recovered in 2013 I do want to clarify that it is ratable.
So if you're a February 1 effective date we would be looking to recover the month of January in 2014.
So 1/12 2/12 3/12 and so forth.
Research Division</strong> Yes as the year goes on that would increasingly be a benefit but then as you roll into 2014 it's now a net mutual aspect.
But I guess as you thought about that I think it's accounted for that you expected margin compression in your business lines.
Is that because the thing with development is not going to re-accrue into net even though you're going to have a pickup and a tailwind at 2013 the fact that you don't assume favorable development they wash? Or how do we think about that? Well the only thing I'll leave there is that we do not assume development going forward.
We believe our reserves are set appropriately and so we don't really have a view of reserve development going forward.
And we'll go next to Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to stick on the industry tax subject and maybe if you can just talk about what some of the latest feedback that you're getting from CMS and from the states.
Is -- if you're guiding anything in terms of how they're planning to build in the tax into the rates for Medicaid and for the Medicare products? So Scott good morning.
With respect to Medicaid.
Again this will be an element of the cost structure that will go into our rate development.
And this along with all the other factors that go into rate development will be part of our dialogue with our state partners over the course of 2013 as they start to set rates that flow into 2014.
So I would say that conversation is on the horizon in earnest.
And then on the Medicare side it is going to be one of the factors that we consider in our -- developing our bid strategy and bid approach for 2014.
So as you think about the first 6 months of next year we'll be taking into consideration the health insurance tax as well as all the other changes and then trying to ultimately preserve the value of the benefits that seniors really enjoy.
Research Division</strong> So Dan is it fair to think about for Medicare that we won't actually be seeing when CMS gives us preliminary and final rates for '14 and there won't be an adjustment in the rate? It's more that the industry will need to adjust the benefits and the pricing to accommodate the tax? I won't comment on CMS rate setting.
I think our expectation is that as we formulate our bid approach we'll need to consider this as another element in that approach.
CMS will have to consider it as well in terms of how they survey the private sector market for Medicare.
So these conversations are really just beginning.
This is really just will be getting introduced at this point in time across basically all the elements for rate development whether it's commercial or whether it's in the government programs.
And we'll go next to Jason Gurda with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> One of your peers recently commented on their expectations for margins in the small group and individual product in 2014 on the exchanges.
Can you provide may be a little bit of commentary or perspective on what you're expecting or how you expect the margins or how you expect the changes to impact your margins and maybe your perspective on what your competitor had stated? Sure Gail you want to touch on this? Sure.
Yes well why I don't Jeff and I give you a little perspective.
I'm not going to make some comments on our competitors’ perspective on the marketplace but I think we want to put this a bit in context.
The small-business market has always been a very competitive and a very transparent market.
That's the market we've done very well in.
We see it as a robust market and quite frankly the focus has always been about on affordable price point strong consumer engagement and making sure that you have a cost structure that underlies that strong positioning.
So as we think about exchanges going forward there's a wide range of expectations around the migration to exchanges and we expect that to be measured as we head into 2014.
Part of that is due just to the ability of getting these exchanges up and running.
The second one is that employers as they think about the tax advantage they currently have and then the need to have to make that up in compensation or other things that's one of the reasons we do think it's going to be measured.
But with that we do expect that there will be pressure in margins over the long term and again that goes back to underscoring the importance of having affordable plan design strong network composition making sure that your cost structure is aligned.
But we do also see opportunities for growth given that opportunity given the positioning of ourselves in the small-business market and maybe I'll ask Jeff to comment a little bit about that as well.
It's Jeff Alter.
I agree with Gail's comments about the existing small group market.
I'll also just remind that we have been involved in exchanges for quite a long time certain states certain industry associations.
So some of the lessons learned there I think are applicable as well for product design choice around network construct.
So there's still a lot to know about the exchanges.
Things are being developed right now.
We don't have all the rules.
But I think as the exchanges become more firm we will engage with the -- those constructs and apply some of the lessons that we've learned over the years in our small group business and in the participation and the number of exchanges to that marketplace.
We don't -- we see it as just as another distribution in another marketplace and we'll react to that marketplace like we have the deal with all the marketplace.
And the only thing I'd add is that there's really nothing new there.
That basically reflects our thinking and our posture probably for the last 2 years or more.
So there really isn't anything new.
Those pressures have been there and we expect them to remain.
And we'll go next to Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just wanted to come back to the cost trend real quickly here.
Relative to the initial trend guidance is it fair to say that the new level is down entirely because the utilization a component of trend is lower than relative to original expectations? And then I guess more importantly going forward is -- even at when you started this year at up about 1.25% or so is that sort of the new normal that we should think about is the right level prospectively? Or would you guys assume that that eventually does reaccelerate? Chris this is Dan.
On the cost trends the improvement in our guidance that 50 basis point improvement at the mid-point that is a blend of improvement both in utilization and a little bit better unit cost.
So both are making a contribution to our 2012 cost trend view.
As we think about our cost trend into 2013 in the commercial business we expect the trend to be relatively stable.
We'll go next to Christine Arnold with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple quick questions.
Are you assuming in kind of your cautious outlook the potential for the fiscal cliff and other situations not to be resolved favorably enough to have potentially a similar situation to what we saw in '08 with medical trends? And can you highlight your low-income PDP bidding strategy in terms of kind of what you were thinking there? So to -- I'll have Dirk kind of talk to or the -- who wants to do the Part D okay? And then are the elements of our fiscal cliff and so forth specific? No I think they're part of the landscape and what we talk about when we talk about the pressures that are on government and so forth.
I don't know how one would actually feather in that in a specific way but it is clearly a factor in our caution list as we think about 2013.
So clearly we recognize it.
Clearly we're focusing on its impact in terms of potential impact on government programs and so forth but nothing that we can actually specifically do but a good reason why we stay more cautious than perhaps the marketplace.
And with respect to Part D? Jack Larsen.
So on the Part D saver plan I guess as market leader we had a point of view that we need to be serving the broader market.
So we set out really to design a plan that appeal to those consumers who are really more I guess economy minded more sensitive to the fixed premium rather than some of the other planned features when you compare that to the third plan that we offer today which is in comparison relatively more comprehensive.
I guess having designed that product for that consumer segment I guess we're just happy that the plan actually have stayed below the benchmark status and we get a chance to serve low-income population for calendar 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> And your assumption is that the medical trend's stable in 2013 if I hear you correctly versus '12 not the upticks in commercial? It's John Penshorn.
I think Dan was referring to a stable rate of increase as opposed to 0% year-over-year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Anything further? No the only thing I'd add Christine to Jack's comments around Part D is part of the -- I think the value is looking at the marketplace as he said in assessing it and then also our partnership with OptumRx our ability to manage formulary effectively our retail network as well as our overall program.
We think that adds unique value to us in our ability to play in that marketplace and broadly serve both the low-income as well as the retail market.
We will go next to Sheryl Skolnick with CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> First of all it is a very hard work to do everything that has been accomplished at United and everyone there should be congratulated on the execution in a challenging environment and I want to thank you Steve for the appropriateness of the reminder of how challenging it is and also for the fact that the tone is more cautious not nearly assessing the stake as it was last year and so the stock is not having heart failure.
But my question is this we've talked a lot on this call about what happens as reform is implemented? But there is a nontrivial risk at this point that we could have the 3 Rs on the hill and then the White House.
And if we've got Romney Ryan and we've got republicans running the senate or at least a split senate so 51 going to republican and the republican house.
Is it possible that reform may change materially if not go away completely in some way shape or form.
So my question to you is what happens to United in the event that reform doesn't happen? How are you positioned to succeed? Well Sheryl regardless of what legislation went in place some of the underlying elements in the marketplace that led to policy initiatives around making the health care system more effective and efficient modernizing that system expanding and addressing areas where coverage was not sufficient access needed to be better channeled needed to be established making -- being able to deliver more consistent quality getting at the underlying cost.
All of those elements contributed to kind of this national conversation around health care and the results are a first policy initiative which was largely around the expansion of coverage.
And I think everybody recognizes there will continue to be work to be done to improve the health care system both from a policy point of view and from an operational point of view.
That's what we do.
That's really where kind of the mission of this enterprise is.
So regardless of what comes forward in terms of policy and what generations follow it we will respond and operate and work within the system to maximize the potential of this enterprise as commercial enterprise and to maximize our impact on the health care system in total.
So if there is a change in direction with respect to health care we will maneuver and evolve and adapt to that change.
We've talked about our adaptability for years.
We don't think the underlying issue has changed.
Fact of the matter is coverage needs to be better considered.
Costs need to be addressed more effectively.
The system needs to operate more efficiently.
Resources need to be accessed in a fair way and gone further and the consistency of the processes and so forth need to advance.
All those elements are things that basically work to our competencies and the strength of our businesses.
So we will just adapt if you will to those kinds of changes.
And I think as an organizational capability we have very very strong adaptability skills.
So that would be the response.
We really -- we'll never comment in terms of the political persuasion one way or another.
We will respond with what the market -- how the market begins to evolve and we'll adapt to serve it.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow-up.
So in terms of the contingency plan is it fair to say the entire company strategy is the contingency plan? Yes I think the whole nature of this organization has been to adapt to that and to adapt to it the market challenges.
So the whole construct modular development of the business built around competencies the fact that we deploy and redeploy kind of almost on a nonstop basis is really how we approach serving the marketplace.
And if there are changes we obviously have thought through the kind of changes that could occur.
We think we can respond to them very effectively.
And we'll take our last question from David Windley with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Steve as I think about adjusting my outlook our outlook relative to the cautionary comments that you've made on the call I'm interested in kind of thinking about whether that is pulling back a little bit on Optum and UnitedHealthcare or if it's more heavily weighted toward one side or the other.
And thinking about Optum you've got the UHC business coming in preparatory costs winding off margins in all 3 segments there seem to be progressing pretty nicely and so it would certainly seem to point toward lower expectations on the UHC side of the business.
I think most of your comments point toward that on the call.
I just want to make sure I confirm and understand that being the case and in particular that it would be in the commercial risk business that you would point to as being the -- maybe the area of greatest weakness for a lack of a better word.
Actually our goal is really not to provide that kind of specific guidance for you today.
Really it is really more of messaging that we take perhaps a more respectful and cautious view of the market in total.
We also recognize 2012 has been a strong year and has benefited from a number of positive things which we hope we'll continue but we can't be sure of.
We're certainly confident in our Optum business but we're also very confident in our United health care business and businesses.
The commentary around the commercial marketplace is almost identical to last year.
I mean we were saying the same things last year about moderation in terms of growth in the commercial risk segment and we're saying it again this year.
We are down about 200 000 in commercial risk and we consider that to be a moderate level.
So we are not trying to signal alarm in any particular area.
We are really just suggesting that 2012 has been a very strong year.
We expect 2013 to grow in both revenue and earnings.
But as we sit in October of 2012 and assess the challenges ahead we hope to continue the strength of this performance.
We're actually in a good or better position than we were at this time last year but we think we are being cautious and we think the market should be cautious as well and that's all I can offer you until we discuss this at the Investor Conference in more detail which is just a little bit more than a month.
So as we wind it up I think UnitedHealth Group continues to deliver a solid performance in the third quarter.
We remain cautious about the challenges ahead and we certainly have discussed that well.
Perhaps most critical though in terms of the challenges we're continuing to work to really improve the quality of the health care system to control the rising cost of care and to really work to serve the people that we serve across the enterprise.
So as we said today we're very optimistic that we have the people of this company.
We'll rise to the challenges across-the-board and we look forward to seeing you at the Investor Conference in just a little over a month.
So thank you very much for joining us this morning.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to UnitedHealth Group Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here is some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated January 17 2013 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we will review our strong 2012 growth and earnings performance affirm our outlook for 2013 and discuss in broad terms how and why we see 2014 and beyond as a period of continued growth and opportunity.
Full year 2012 revenues grew 9% to $110.6 billion and net earnings were $5.28 per share.
2012 per share earnings increased 12% year-over-year attributable to both broad-based growth and intense management of medical and operating costs.
Both UnitedHealthcare and Optum exceeded their fourth quarter revenue and earnings outlooks from our November investor conference.
Cash flows from operations of $7.2 billion were again 1.3x net income.
Fourth quarter cash flows were $1.7 billion or 1.4x net income for the quarter.
And we ended the year with $1.1 billion in nonregulated cash.
We raised our dividend by 30% earlier this year and repurchased more than $3 billion of our shares.
Before reviewing these results in more detail I would like to discuss a couple of recent topics we believe have been prominent in the minds of investors.
The first topic is exchanges.
There is significant interest in the impact exchanges may have on the sector in total and on UnitedHealthcare specifically.
We can share our thinking about exchanges only in broad terms at this point recognizing one there's still many significant unknowns with respect to how exchanges will begin and actually work.
And as you know details in this sector count.
So we are holding back on making specific decisions in many cases until greater clarity can be established.
And secondly the way we think about exchange markets and how we may position ourselves state-by-state with respect to exchanges we see to be proprietary competitive insights.
So to begin we are advocates of efforts to expand coverage to as many Americans as possible but we would never have drawn the line at exchanges alone.
If you want to expand coverage then use every channel possible make it easy convenient ubiquitous.
We advocate that exchanges be a level playing field and fairly regulated.
The more complex exchanges become the greater the potential for unintended market distortions and therefore the greater reluctance to use them.
Health care at its core is local.
Theoretically there will be as many as 100 very local market exchanges 50 for individual coverage and 50 for small group and that's just the beginning.
You can expect each will operate somewhat differently.
So there is a great deal to evaluate before pursuing any of these exchange markets similarly to what we do today for Medicare and Medicaid.
The level of interest in exchanges will be driven by how we assess each local market how the exchange and its rules are set up state-by-state and our market position relative to others in the market as we see it today and as we evaluate it going forward.
And that equation will evolve and change over time as exchanges mature.
So going in positions on exchanges will be just that.
We are not tied to them in one direction or another.
Broadly we would expect to participate in a number of exchanges.
We're not going to offer a precise number but a broad range perhaps from 10 to 25 or more with absolutely no firm commitment to that range.
We will only participate in exchanges that we assess to be fair commercially sustainable and provide a reasonable return on the capital they will require.
And like Medicaid if we are in a situation or market dynamic that we do not see as sustainable we will either not participate in the first instance or ultimately withdraw.
Similarly we will continually evaluate state-based exchanges that may not have been attractive when initially introduced.
So as they mature and evolve if we see them as both fair and sustainable we would look to participate.
And in a perfect world we would participate in them all.
Exchanges will create new market dynamics that could impact our existing businesses depending on ultimate member migration patterns for each market the pace of that migration and its impact on our established membership.
We do not expect these impacts to be dramatic or necessarily negative to us.
Today our individual and 2- to 50-member risk-based health benefit businesses contribute approximately 10% to our total earnings.
Their margins are consistent with our overall commercial insurance results.
And the feedback we receive from this community is that they remain committed to offering health benefits to their employees.
So while these earnings are still meaningful we are diversified to the point where we do not feel compelled to engage in any markets where conditions leave us uncertain as to long-term viability.
There has been speculation as to how exchanges will happen by September 30 2013 and what their impact on 2014 will be.
And the simple answer is we don't know.
The idea that robust exchanges whether state-based or federal will be enrolling large numbers of individuals or groups by September seems challenging.
And our sense is the initial consumer and small-business response may be modest.
But we are committed to being ready.
We believe we have strong product offerings that are valuable to the market in terms of quality access affordability innovative design and service excellence.
And these characteristics and features are compelling in or out of an exchange channel.
In the long term we are expecting and preparing for an exchange category of coverage to become established as a new benefit category between Medicaid and the traditional commercial benefits markets.
We anticipate this category will have meaningful participation that we will serve in the majority of those markets.
That it will be a rational product category with sustainable margins and that our businesses and our earnings will grow as exchanges become more established.
Moving to pricing and medical cost trends.
There has been no shortage of commentary about the 2013 commercial pricing environment across the commercial benefits industry.
The positioning of the ACA insurance fee and rate review and approval process is across states and against the backdrop of 2013 commercial medical cost trend outlooks.
We can only comment on our experience.
We've just seen the commercial pricing environment strengthen from that in 2012 in general.
We have nearly 70% of our 2013 business priced and the markets have been rational in our view competitive but better than 2012 for us.
We have been very steady in our pricing disciplines year-to-year consistently adhering to and aligning to our forward view of costs and we take measured membership losses and instances where we cannot get our price as we did in the commercial risk markets in 2012 and expect to again in 2013 as we discussed at our investor conference.
We have a broad and diverse portfolio of innovative product offerings that align to buyer values so we are able to hit a broad range of price points.
Accordingly our membership losses have been relatively muted particularly when considering the ongoing impact of funding conversions.
We have included the ACA insurance tax and other ACA cost factors in our 2013 rate filings.
We are working effectively with our state partners through the rate approval process.
As always some had been more challenging than others.
At the end of the day we must price to our costs.
And if we conclude that a state's posture on commercial insurance pricing is not economically sustainable we will have no choice but to withdraw from that market.
We have not been put in that position to date.
Our medical cost management capabilities have steadily strengthened year-by-year and our networks are very cost-competitive.
We have a market-leading spectrum of pay-for-performance arrangements now exceed $20 billion in annual medical spend.
Our 2012 all-in commercial medical cost trends were effectively managed to under 5.5%.
And we are constantly refining and intensifying our health care affordability efforts.
We remain comfortable with our 2013 medical cost trend outlook range of 5% to 6%.
We are confident in our pricing disciplines the yields we are achieving and our resulting 2013 commercial care ratio outlook which remains unchanged at 82% plus or minus 50 basis points.
Now turning back to 2012.
Both business platforms produced strong results well above our expectations as we entered 2012.
UnitedHealthcare grew by nearly 2 million people in the U.S.
and added 4.4 million in Brazil late in the year.
And revenue grew by 8% year-over-year.
2012 operating earnings was $7.8 billion exceeded our most recent outlook.
And our fourth quarter operating margin of 6.1% was stronger than we expected.
We expect that ever-improving alignment of benefit designs consumer engagements clinical management and care delivery relationships to deliver quality healthcare for consumers along with competitive cost performance in 2013 and beyond.
Optum grew earnings from operations by 14% in 2012.
Optum's disciplined simplification and integration agenda is advancing at the same time its revenue growth is accelerating and expanding its margins.
In the fourth quarter all Optum segments grew both earnings and operating margins year-over-year driven by business growth and the benefits of investments made in the first half of the year.
As 2013 begins we remain optimistic.
Both Optum and UnitedHealthcare are solidly on plan as we move into the year.
Our businesses are executing well for customers and we continue to grow market share.
The initial OptumRx customer transitions and new business installations across OptumRx and UnitedHealthcare have been virtually seamless including our new Medicaid assignment in Kansas.
UnitedHealthcare's preparations to serve TRICARE which will begin in April of this year are going well.
And we have been awarded the opportunity to serve an estimated 20 000 people in the Florida state Long-term Care Program beginning in August 2013.
UnitedHealthcare is also beginning on an exclusive basis to market to the Medicare beneficiaries residing in The Villages in Florida the largest retirement community in the U.S.
We continue to feel positive about our Medicare growth across all product categories.
UnitedHealthcare is experiencing strong January medical membership growth in excess of 600 000 people led by Public and Senior sector growth and positive results for our Employer &amp; Individual.
Strong fee-based commercial growth should more than offset the expected decline in risk-based products caused by the weak employment market and UnitedHealthcare pricing disciplines.
We're also experiencing strong growth in Part D.
UnitedHealthcare created a new affordable basic plan for consumers nationally and elevated its large 4 million member plan to an enhanced plan status.
The change to enhanced status changes the seasonal patterns of earning recognition shifting more of the profits to later in the year with no impact on full year profitability.
For Optum we expect 2013 to show a strong growth with operating earnings advancing in a range of approximately 35% to over 40% above 2012 levels as we previously communicated.
The Optum businesses are seasonal in their progression of earnings and we expect the first half and second half contributions to be proportionately similar to 2012 say 40% in the first half and 60% in the second.
Our annual outlook for 2013 remains unchanged with the revenues forecasted in a range of 500 -- of $123 billion to $124 billion of net earnings and net earnings in a range of $5.25 to $5.50 per share.
The rest of the 2013 financial coordinates we shared with you at our November 27 conference remain consistent as well.
Perhaps I can offer a few comments on consensus earnings estimates for 2013.
In total for the year we are in the same general zone as the Street which is typically oriented to the top side of our $5.25 to $5.50 per share range.
We see quarterly progressions somewhat differently with our progressions more oriented to the second half of the year due to such things as the dynamics of growing seasonality the mechanics of the Part D program and the like.
And we should mention again that last year's first quarter had more than $0.30 per share in prior year net reserve and rebate development which we do not forecast.
So the takeaway is on an annual basis the upper end of our guidance is in the general zone with consensus.
The quarterly progressions we see for 2013 favor the back half of the year more than the current consensus numbers would suggest something on the order of a 3% to 4% shift from the first half to the second half with most of it coming from the first quarter.
Our capital disciplines remain focused and consistent.
2012 was an unusually active year in terms of acquisitions and business development.
We expect 2013 to be more moderate.
We continue to forecast operating cash flows to range from $7.2 billion to $7.6 billion with capital expenditures to stay within a range of $1.25 billion to $1.35 billion.
As we have said we will look to continue to advance and mature our dividend in 2013 a process our board will address in our midyear session.
And we expect to repurchase shares near to the $3 billion end of the range provided at our investor conference.
Despite the fact that we are only 16 days into 2013 there is an unusual level of focus on 2014 given the anticipated ACA changes.
Our foregoing comments clearly indicate that we do not have any unique insights or precision around the 2014 performance outlook.
And as always there are other potential factors impacting both the broad marketplace as well as our specific industry sectors that may influence 2014 performance aside from ACA-driven market changes.
What we can say is that based on our view of what is known at this point and for our overall mix of business we do not view 2014 in a negative light relative to our expected 2013 earnings per share outlook and that 2014 2015 and beyond hold the potential to be periods of positive growth and opportunity for our businesses.
Factors that play into that perspective include a belief that the federal administrations charged with ACA implementation are interested in smooth implementation and sustainable adoption interest shared by critical policymakers and legislators.
A meaningful number of ACA market changes have already been introduced to the market: minimal MLR rules benefit and coverage expansions et cetera with limited disruption.
Administrative and regulatory guidance to date has been rational predicable and  reasonably collaborative given the nature of the ACA legislation.
There is certainly a great deal more to work through and significant unknowns.
But so far it has been manageable.
In the end the ACA expands an enormous national healthcare market that will be served by the private sector.
As we have said from the beginning the ACA will reshape some market rules but will not change the basic nature of the market needs for high quality healthcare at affordable costs and for a higher-performing overall healthcare system.
The ACA will not determine who will respond to be the ultimate long-term winners or losers in serving those market needs.
The ACA actually intensifies the demand for the core competencies we deliver through our businesses.
They are knowledged to optimize care resources and capability to manage both high quality clinical care and costs information to inform and align healthcare for optimal performance on both individual and overall system levels and enabling technology to make it all work in modern and efficient ways.
Over the last several years we have shaped our enterprise as a uniquely adaptable construct of market-facing businesses that serve the critical market that the ACA is expanding.
Today our businesses are performing at more consistent and higher quality levels than ever before.
We have simplified our businesses to be well focused and coordinated.
We are more integrated and scaled with steadily increasing productivity.
We've been driving market innovations at higher levels than at any time in our history.
We have invested in brands and have steadily elevated our market visibility and reputation.
We have strong and deep leadership and have been investing in our people and our culture.
We have maintained an appropriate balance in our capital stewardship steadily returning more capital to investors while building expanding and diversifying our businesses for long-term growth.
While working this change agenda we have continued to execute consistently on the fundamentals.
Since 2009 UnitedHealthcare has consistently taken market share having grown to serve 4.5 million more people in the U.S.
while positioning to serve another 4.5 million people in Brazil.
Optum has been formed aligned rebaselined and on its way to doubling its 2011 earnings over a 4-year period significantly increasing its relative contribution to our overall earnings.
At the UnitedHealth Group level our financial performance has been distinctive in a recessionary environment.
Since 2009 revenues have increased $23.5 billion or 27% operating earnings are up by nearly $3 billion or 46% and net earnings have grown by more than $2 per share from a base of $3.24 per share an 18% compound growth rate.
We have generated cumulative cash flows from operations of more than $20 billion over those past 3 years.
We dedicated a portion of this amount to repurchase nearly 200 million shares at an average price of about $43.50 per share reducing our weighted average shares outstanding by more than 11%.
This is a different company than it was a decade ago different than just 3 years ago and it will be predictably different 3 or more years from now.
We will remain disciplined in preparing for change in growth.
We're established in our markets growing market share and producing strong and dependable results for shareholders.
We expect to continue to serve healthcare providers governments and consumers to grow and deliver positive results for investors this year in 2014 and in the years to come.
So the takeaways this morning in our mind are: strong 2012 performance across the board 2012 commercial cost trends favorable to forecast 2013 commercial pricing competitive but better than 2012 for us.
We're focused on 2013 growth with outlook in line with our previous guidance.
We are working effectively with states care providers regulators the broad group of participants in the healthcare market.
And we are preparing for 2014 including the introduction of exchanges in the market.
So thank you for your time this morning.
I hope we've been helpful in answering a few questions.
But we'd like to hear your areas of interest today.
So could we ask the moderator to take this over? And we'll begin to respond to questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to the side of Matt Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the outlook for Medicare Advantage.
And just hearing your comments about the pragmatism of the implementation so far when you look at all of the provisions that are impacting Medicare Advantage in 2014 and '15 in the interest of "parity" that seemingly without regard to the supplemental coverage that you're providing for low and moderate income seniors do you think those provisions as it stands today are manageable? Or do you think that they will need to be revised as you move through the next 3 years? I would say if you're basically saying as it exists today we would always have an appetite for things that would offer let's say more flexibility and more responsiveness in the marketplace for Medicare Advantage.
And we would also hold a view that Medicare in total would benefit from themes of what I would might call modernization of the program.
And we see those things most effectively in the private sector today.
So our posture on Medicare Advantage is that we would be advocates of continued change and kind of proactive change around themes of modernization.
As it relates to kind of the specifics of the regulations and the elements that are affecting rates and so forth I think we would prefer things to be somewhat -- to otherwise but I think that it is manageable as it exists today.
We probably don't have -- we think that if -- for things that move further would really start to impact beneficiaries affect quality of care that there would be significant pushback if there were greater activities going forward as you deal with elements like the fiscal cliff and things like that.
I don't know if Gail you want to comment or Jack? I think Steve said it right.
The only thing that perhaps I might point out Matt we certainly always would have a fairly short list of things we perhaps might suggest modification more modernization of anything.
But a lot of the provisions with healthcare reform are things that we are doing more broadly across our business.
So for example a focus on payment for success and outcomes and the like that are embedded in Stars Rating.
Those are things that are really good and should be preserved.
Would we might have a different point of view on the individual elements? Of course.
But I think the bigger things that are in play are things that will ultimately be good for Medicare Advantage and certainly Medicare broadly.
We'll go next to the side of Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Steve it seems like you were comfortable in saying that you see no real reason why you wouldn't be able to grow earnings in 2014.
Does that relate -- hearing that correctly? Yes from this distance and given the opportunities in front of us yes.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So outside of the exchange uncertainty which I think we all understand can you walk us through your main business segments and let us know anything that you believe would take you off the typical growth path? I know you have a 13% to 16% target.
Matt just mentioned Medicare Advantage.
Anything you could tell -- anything further you could tell us there Medicaid some of the other segments that might be different than what we typically see year-to-year? Well I'm not sure I fully understand the question.
But if you're asking what -- again what gives us a sense of why '14 could represent continued growth and opportunity is that if you look at across the expanse of our businesses over the last several years as a lot of these elements have been formulating and coming into the marketplace we have been growing market share growing in our commercial businesses growing in Medicare.
States have been responding in terms of Medicaid and expanding.
The military business is coming online.
Our Optum businesses are getting -- really establishing some very positive momentum as they mature.
At the same time their growth opportunities seem to be taking off because of the pressure in the healthcare system in total.
And then there is the opportunity to do this all over again in Brazil off a platform that is already market-leading.
And that's a pretty good hand to be holding at the moment in particularly in a nation that's looking for positive change and higher performance out of its healthcare system and a population that continues to value high-quality benefits modernization and innovation that comes to those benefits and costs.
So costs matter and we are all over costs in terms of the focus of our clinical programs strategies with our networks and so forth.
So -- and I think that we are executionally trying to take this enterprise to a next level of performance.
So those factors suggest to me that we have as good a chance as anyone of growing and performing in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Do you expect to grow EBIT next year? Or are you talking about EPS? I'm talking about growing earnings.
And I have no interest in giving guidance on '14 at this distance.
So you ask me what themes that's what we responded.
We'll go next to the side of Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Appreciated some of the comments on the exchanges.
And just interested if you can give us some early thoughts on the 3 Rs now that those have come out and whether you think they will be successful in helping to mitigate adverse selection in the exchanges.
So Gail Dan you want to...
Scott this is Dan Schumacher.
I think that the guidance that came out was generally in line with our expectations.
With respect to risk adjustment the only modest changes that when you start sharing it happens a little later than what I think people were generally thinking.
But we do you think it is some level of protection in the new market.
And the only thing I would add this is Gail Boudreaux in terms these comment on exchanges overall while the 3 Rs are important the fundamental economics and structure of the exchange is equally important.
So as we think about that the discipline of that analysis I think around the exchanges and where you participate makes a lot of -- is very important to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick one just to sort out some of the one-timers that were in the market more for the fourth quarter.
Just any insights on sort of the impact of Hurricane Sandy and on utilization in the New York Metro area and then sort of impact on the flu if you saw any.
Sure Scott.
This is Dan again.
With respect to the flu yes we did see an elevated flu over what we would consider to be normal in the fourth quarter.
As we look at that it added about $50 million of incremental expense beyond what a typical flu is.
We did have some moderation with respect to Storm Sandy as well.
And we would put all of those things together as well as look at our flu experience through the first 3 weeks of January we feel comfortable with our trend outlook for 2013.
We'll go next to the side of Chris Rigg with Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I just wanted to come back to the fourth quarter medical cost side.
It looks on a consolidated basis MLR is up 80 basis points but commercial is flat.
I think this is the first quarter in a while where there's sort of a deviation between trends on the government side versus the commercial side.
Can you provide any color there? Was there anything in Medicare and Medicaid that's worth sort of highlighting? Dan? Chris this is Dan again.
No I don't think there's anything to highlight underneath there.
The fundamental change in the group loss ratio came down to the change in favorable development year-over-year.
And as we look at each of our businesses in the commercial and in government programs we did have favorable development.
However it was stronger in the commercial business and that's why you see that difference and the relative change.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just want to try to slip one more in here.
Earlier in the call Steve you talked about fair in the exchanges.
I guess could you just help us understand what would be something unfair in an exchange? Just any kind of detail there would be helpful.
I'll leave at that.
Well I'm not going to talk about unfair elements.
I'll have Gail Boudreaux respond to this.
But I think she was sitting on this before in terms of how they really work kind of the states' postures the federal posture with respect to making them viable and what we said sustainable markets.
Gail? Steve had sort of 3 things in his comments.
One fair commercially sustainable and providing us a reasonable return.
And as we think about exchanges just a couple of points I guess I'd like to start with.
One is we see it as a market not the market.
So there will be robust markets inside and outside of the exchange wheel.
So expect these -- the rollout to be more measured so that January of '14 is just the beginning.
But in terms of your specific question what makes it more attractive is flexibility.
And flexibility around product design clinical models network configuration as well as an ability earn -- to be priced essentially for the risk and earn a fair return.
So as we establish and look at exchanges and the viability of those those are the kinds of factors that are important in assessing those marketplaces.
We'll go next to the side of Christine Arnold with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Optum is a huge part of the growth story over the next couple of years.
And it looks like each of your Optum divisions did a bit better than expected exiting the year.
Can you talk about some of the major factors that are resulting in Optum divisions doing better than expected? So maybe what's going really well and ahead of expectations entering 2013? Yes I think leadership has a lot to do with it.
So Larry do you want to...
Sure I'd be happy to.
Christine it's Larry Renfro.
If you go back to last year I think we laid out a few goals.
We talked about number one that we were going to have a 15% ROIC by 2015.
We were going to have our operating margin at 6% by 2015 and we would double earnings of 2011.
As part of that 3-year plan we dubbed that internally as One Optum.
And we had 4 main areas of focus during the year with financial discipline reengineering simplification portfolio management and growth with 5 main drivers: business alignment business integration that's one; cost management; organic growth; PBM in-sourcing; and strengthening leadership.
I can say that we solidly from our standpoint executed and we did it in a simple fashion.
So we feel pretty good about 2013.
We are pivoting to growth in 2013.
But I guess it just comes down to execution.
And again Christine we feel pretty good about where we're at today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Steve one follow-up.
At your Investor Day you guys said that you see financial services companies pharmacy retailers consumer products companies seeking to enter the health insurance market.
How should we be thinking about that? We haven't seen new entrants in a while? Yes I've seen elements of that.
I don't know if I could really comment because I don't know what enter the market really means.
If they're looking to be a distribution channel that may be fine.
I think that this is an extraordinarily complex space and sometimes the complexity of it is not as apparent to you until you actually get into it.
It is also an extraordinarily locally oriented environment.
So there -- it is quite a challenge to be effective broadly on a kind of a national scale in healthcare and still be really executing at the Street level.
So it's a challenging environment.
I think there are actually a lot of competitive barriers-to-entry.
And we will see how other nontraditional participants may come into it.
I take your point that there has not really been a nontraditional participant enter this marketplace that I can actually think of at least in the time that I've been studying it.
We'll go next to the side of Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Steve just want to follow up on the comments you made around the pricing environment.
It sounded like you characterized 2013 as a stronger environment.
You guys haven't talked about a stronger pricing environment in a long time.
So I'm curious what are the drivers of that? Is that there's less rebate experience that needs to get incorporated? Is it the industry fee or new cost for reform? I'm just curious what exactly stronger pricing environment means and any colors to what's driving that.
Sure.
Gail? Sure.
In terms of your question on a stronger pricing environment I think first of all we see it as a stronger pricing environment because we're achieving the yields that we set out and we are able to feel good about our benefit-cost ratio at 82% plus or minus 50 basis points.
In terms of the overall environment Steve said in his comments it's still competitive.
There are a multitude of different drivers in states and we've talked about that in these calls over the last several quarters.
But we think we've got a really strong mix of affordable products in the marketplace that gives us a very broad portfolio to offer to our competitors.
And we see that as a driver of giving people options in the marketplace.
And I think our cost structure helps us do that.
So from that perspective we've been able to achieve what we set out at Investor Day around the yields that we talked to you about.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up on that Gail.
So I would look at the MLRs that you guys have recorded maybe even specifically in the commercial segment in the last year.
And it certainly looks like you were achieving your pricing yields.
Or is it more use of extraordinary cost moderation that was not anticipated and this year you think you're -- I mean I'm just trying to pare out.
Are you actually seeing stronger yields relative to expectations? Is that kind of what we're seeing? We're seeing our yields in line with the expectations that we outlined to you at Investor Day and there's also a mix component as you look from '12 to '13.
We've put a significant amount of affordable products in the marketplace and we're seeing strong uptake on those.
We saw that in 2012 and that continues into '13.
And maybe I'll ask Jeff Alter who leads our commercial business to provide some comments as well.
I think with Steve's remarks when we say we see the market the pricing environment we're talking predominantly about ourselves.
So we still believe the market hasn't changed over the long -- we'll call it the last few quarters.
It's competitive.
It's rational.
We measure I guess weakness versus a strongness on our ability to grow and retain membership.
And during this season we've been able to perform better around growth and retention of existing accounts.
So it may be as much around execution as anything else.
Maybe we are just executing better this year than we did last.
But we seem to be operating in a more rational way with respect to pricing dynamics and we are getting the margins that we are targeting.
So I think it's no more complicated than that.
And it is profoundly local.
Jeff will school me on this regularly that when we talk about these things in generalities they really come down to market-by-market dynamics.
We'll go next to the side of Ralph Giacobbe with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just want to talk a little bit about the industry tax in 2014.
Maybe if you could talk about sort of your initial conversations with employers and maybe even states for sort of pricing of the tax.
And in Medicare maybe specifically your plans to sort of offset that.
And if you think that will have any impact on sort of the attractiveness of your product versus fee-for-service Medicare.
Yes I don't know how -- I mean we're not interested in revealing kind of the inner workings of some of these conversations.
Generally speaking it is a cost and we price to cost.
And cost is something that is universally recognized in terms of the elements of these products and in the rate review process.
So do you want to -- I think the consensus here is that that's pretty much the issue.
It's basically a cost element.
All the pieces of the ACA really represent elements of costs that as they're introduced are introduced into the rate approval process and are being discussed and we think discussed in rational ways in the settings that we are in and regulators who are also trying to achieve their objectives in their respective markets.
And for us so far those conversations continue to be constructive professional and we will see where they lead.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is the -- I'm assuming -- I know it's a small portion but I'm assuming the industry tax in terms of the timing some of it is going to be in 2013.
I'm assuming that's in the guidance range for '13.
Again I know it's a small number.
But any help in helping us sort of figure out what that amount is and/or what percentage of the tax that would represent to you? Yes I think we're feathering it in as it goes through for the year.
I don't know if we can actually quantify that for you in a venue like this today.
But rest assured that we are -- basically that is going in on a month-by-month basis as that legislation basically is designed.
We'll go next to the side of Sheryl Skolnick with CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> And nice job against a lot of headwinds and also the commentary on the call has been very helpful.
I want to focus on something that Gail said at the Investor Day and I think I heard reiterated today.
$20 billion of your benefit expense now is pay-for-performance based.
And then I think I heard you say that your goal was to get to $50 billion.
I have 2 questions about that.
It seems that that's a key to success across all of the product offerings like many of your other activities not just on the exchanges.
But I'm curious about what has to happen differently either internally or externally to get to that goal the timing of that goal.
And also what -- how can we quantify or think about the impact on your performance on your earnings performance if you get there? Or I should say when.
I think that is a great question.
We have been at this.
Actually we think much longer than others.
We've been in the different names.
But the bottom line is it's been the same fundamental theme.
We have a lot of elements structurally already in place along these lines kind of built into our processes.
So Gail do you want to respond? Sure.
So just to reiterate what you said.
We are currently at $20 billion of spend in pay-for-performance as part of our accountable care platform.
And I think that we shared that at Investor Day how we think about that which is a broad spectrum of working with physicians as well as integrated delivery systems around a continuum to meet them where they are whether that's moving from just straight fee-for-service in the primary care side to including incentives all the way up through accountable care through integrated pay for delivery full capitation.
Our goal is to get to $50 billion by 2017 which is a pretty aggressive goal.
We've made significant progress year in and year out.
In terms of how we get there I think it's a concerted effort across UnitedHealthcare as well as in partnership with Optum.
Optum is clearly helping to enable the delivery system with their tools and what they're doing in the marketplace.
And on the UnitedHealthcare side we're working to really change the relationship that we have working with the delivery system.
And that's actually happening in each of our local markets.
We're embedding it into the core components of what we do.
And it's not only on the alignment of the network contracts but it's also our clinical program.
We've talked a little bit about our Healthier Lives model at the investor conference that's an integral part of getting there and what has to change in how we work with the delivery system to managed care and then on our benefit design and our consumer engagement tool.
So I think about all of those those 4 categories together and how we get there because paying the delivery system differently without changing our internal product design and structure and our internal processes isn't going to get us there.
So we look at it in a comprehensive way.
So that's how we see it and how it translates for us I think is into the medical cost structure we can offer our clients the cost of products we put in the marketplace and as you see in '13 the strong strong growth that we've got in the market.
And as I think about even 2013 the strong growth we're seeing across our commercial and Medicare book is indicative of the progress we've already made in some of those fronts.
Research Division</strong> So said differently it enables you to price at a value of the entire package not just the premium per months but also the value you're getting and the benefit and the access to care that actually makes you well.
That that enables you to gain market share while maintaining your discipline on margins in part.
Yes.
I think that's very articulately said.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it also gets to the issue of reducing utilization.
So if I could ask a follow-up that's only somewhat related I'll admit.
There was a lot of worry and chatter going into the call this morning.
What is United going to say about utilization and the utilization trends that you're seeing? And you've addressed that obliquely I think in telling us that your cost trend was somewhat below the mid-point of the range or the 5.5% rather to be precise.
But can you give us some commentary on what you're seeing in terms of utilization pattern? And I'm also curious as to whether utilization patterns in the quarter before we go into reform on 2014 might change at all as perhaps benefits change and how you think about that.
Okay.
Dan you want to touch on that? Sure.
Sheryl you faded out at the end.
But with respect to utilization our view fundamentally hasn't changed which is to say that yes we did see an increase in utilization in 2012 over 2011.
And as we've talked about the categories on past calls outpatient is higher physician is pretty stable and inpatient has actually been more restrained.
As we look at the full year now this is the fourth year in a row across all of our benefits businesses we've been able to reduce our bed days per thousand.
So we're actually driving out utilization through our programs and through our focus.
And so we're very pleased with that result.
And with respect to the fourth quarter we saw a little bit better utilization than we thought as well as a little bit better unit cost.
And it gives us comfort in our forward outlook as we look at our 2013 trend in the 5% to 6% range.
We'll go next to the side of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Back into the fourth quarter looking at the performance of the commercial business versus the consolidated business it's clear that there's something that happened in the Medicare and the Medicaid business that seems like it got a little worse beyond just the base business.
I guess I'm curious was there unfavorable TPD in the Medicare and the Medicaid business in this quarter? Peter this is Dan.
No we had favorable development in both commercial as well as our government programs in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Then the current business did something deteriorate there in those 2 businesses? No it's really -- when you look at the mix of development across the businesses year-over-year it's that change that's driving that dynamic.
From a fundamental standpoint our performance continues to be strong in both Medicare and Medicaid despite challenging headwinds with respect to both state and federal pricing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Would Amil have had a favorable impact on the MLR this quarter? It's negligible.
When you look at it 2 months on the quarter not even [ph].
No it would not.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just last just as a follow-up to that.
Any commentary about Amil overall and what you think you'll spend there in Brazil over the course of this year for acquisitions and capital spend? Well we wouldn't even talk about that whether it was in Brazil or the United States.
But we can give you some sense of kind of how things are settling out in Amil.
Yes Peter it's Dave Wichmann.
Thanks for the question.
I'll try to give you some information.
It's very early stages as you well know.
We did close a transaction the first part of the transaction at the very end of October.
We also -- you probably heard that we're in market doing some open market purchases of the public stock to the extent that it was below the BRL 30.75 offer price that we had offered.
So we were successful at doing some of that during -- in the November time frame.
We're preparing for the tender right now for the remaining public shares and we expect to complete that tender still in the first half of 2013.
That is on track as we have laid out both in the call around Amil as well as in the investor conference.
And just as a reminder we'll be financing that with debt.
It's about $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion to complete that transaction.
And just generally I mean Amil's results are good.
They have posted about $1 billion in revenues.
So for the 2 months in '12 was solidly ahead on both medical and dental enrollment for the quarter which we are pleased with.
And as you'd expect the earnings a net of minority interests are very insignificant to the quarter.
And that's what we expected given both the -- what we expected from the business as well as the purchase accounting applications to that as well.
We'll go next to the side of Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> To follow on the exchange comments with your view now of the fundamentals and the 3 Rs how are you thinking about the mix of small group versus individual markets that you may participate in for the 10 to 25 that you had mentioned earlier? And I'm assuming that excludes private exchanges.
And then for the larger states like California and New York how likely are those to be broken up into MSAs as opposed to statewide exchanges? And last question on that topic as I appreciate the breakout of the 10% individual and small group exposure but I wanted to look at exchange exposure a different way.
There's several reports suggesting employers of low-wage low-skill employees like retail or restaurants are more likely to dump into the exchanges.
So what is the exposure across your commercial risk book to those types of employers of low-wage low-skill workers? Well.
So I'll offer a couple of responses.
A lot of those that you just mentioned in the latter part aren't covering benefits at all today.
So those would be the ones that most of the marketplace look to be added to the exchanges.
I would also offer that kind of the gravitational pull of our whole enterprise is towards the small group side.
We have never been large players in the individual marketplace.
I don't know if you want to comment.
Yes.
The only other thing I'd add to Steve's comment -- this is Gail Boudreaux is specifically to is this just public or private exchanges we will participate broadly in public exchanges.
We already -- or private exchanges I'm sorry.
We already do.
And we see that as another distribution channel.
We've been very effective over a number of years doing that.
And our subsidiary Optum also has some significant opportunities in the private exchange marketplace.
So that's a nice growth opportunity for us going forward.
This is John Penshorn Sarah.
We did not count the private exchanges in those broad range totals that Steve offered as a starting point.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And the part on whether or not you think larger states like California and New York might break up the exchanges into something smaller than statewide is that something that you're looking into? Sarah it's Jeff Alter.
It's tough to comment only on what we know publicly.
New York has already indicated that there will be multiple geographic-based exchanges there.
And so we at least know one state is thinking more than just a single exchange.
We'll go next to the side of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the exchange commentary.
I guess two points here.
First in the context of provider rates that you're negotiating.
I guess what percentage of contracts do you have signed yet? And what rates are you kind of zeroing in on? You mentioned that this product serves the partition between Medicaid and commercial.
Are you seeing pricing kind of skew towards one of those ranges? And then also as far as the commentary with the states goes I appreciate you're looking for more clarity.
It makes a lot of sense.
Is there a sense for the timing around when that clarity may come into view? And as far as the federal exchange is there a sense that that will be a very uniform exchange? Or will they allow for flexibility to account for state variances? This is Gail Boudreaux.
Let me address your multiple questions hopefully in order.
First around the pricing issue.
As we said a couple of times the exchanges we see very much as a local market dynamic.
So from a pricing perspective we see that going anywhere from commercial rates to something less.
And our goal is to match our underlying economics to each of the exchanges.
So we're in the process of doing that.
As you know we already offer multiple products with multiple networks constructs and we've been doing that for a number of years.
And we've aligned our payment and our network construct to the product offerings in those markets.
So we're going to leverage that history.
That's our experience in building networks broadly across the United States to match the markets.
And as you think about it remember that we have to acknowledge that our products inside the exchange will also be available outside of the exchange.
So that expertise will be important in building our overall network construct and offering it in the exchange.
In terms of your other 2 questions I don't know that we have great visibility or speculation on the timing of when those regulations will come out.
We're obviously working really closely with our states.
We have a dedicated team in place that meets with each of our markets and we're preparing our own business to be able to support what does come out.
So I don't have any great visibility into the timing of the other 2 questions at this stage.
And that's 50 different timetables.
So very -- again these are very local dynamics.
We have maybe time for 2 more questions.
We'll go next to the side of Ana Gupte with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get a perspective on your margin outlook for 2013 in the Medicare business.
When you had the Investor Day you had the rates for 2013 you had your own Star scores and what the margin expectations would be based on that.
But since then you've seen your enrollment and disenrollment data and your mix of business possibly relative to your competition and then one more quarter of utilization.
Do you see it being flat year-over-year on an MLR basis? Is it likely to get worse or better? Yes we really don't provide margin insight with respect to Medicare other than the most general themes.
So Jack do you want to comment at that level? Ana Jack Larsen.
As Steve said we don't comment specifically on margin trends in Medicare.
But what I can tell you is that based on the enrollment season that we're just finishing up here effective January 1 the mix of new members that we're seeing is very much in keeping with the mix that we had anticipated in terms of individuals already in Medicare versus new to Medicare.
We're really not seeing anything surprising or what we had anticipated.
So on that one I'd say we feel very good about the guidance that we offered back in November.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the age cohorts are you seeing more of the 65 to 67 type the younger age mix enrolling directly into Medicare Advantage and any mix shift likely on the 75 plus? Yes.
That has historically been the pattern.
Jack? Yes.
So exactly right.
I think we are very aware of the cohort mix.
And as I said we're seeing what we had anticipated with really nothing remarkable to offer.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then on the Part D side with your new product can you comment on your margin expectations relative to what you had even directionally in 2012? And then from a seasonality perspective as you're guiding us to a quarterly progression would there likely be any change? Well we don't comment on the margins with respect to that as well.
We're very comfortable with where we put our bids.
We have got nice market response.
The switch to an enhanced plan to open up a new basic plan was a very good move.
But it just moves the recognition of earnings under those programs to the back half of the year.
And that's -- the geography of when the earnings come in is really the biggest change in there.
Other than that we've had a very good Part D season and put forward our bids in what we think is a very rational fashion.
And I think we will be very comfortable of that.
And then on the downstream impact is that it should drive a script volume to OptumRx and that will be a positive for us as well.
So that's I think all we could comment on it.
And we'll go last to the side of David Windley with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I'm focused on Optum.
Your margins have had really nice improvements sequentially for the last few quarters.
End of the year above where your guidance range is for next year.
I was hoping if you could comment on perhaps what other than maybe seasonality might be the reasons that that will be lower than where you ended the fourth quarter.
Second could you comment on any early say operational feedback on the internalization of the Medco business? And finally give us a sense of how quickly you can get Optum services into the Amil market and customer base? Sure.
Well that will be our last 3 questions then.
And Larry maybe you want to start off? Yes.
Okay.
David what was the first question? I got the last 2.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Basically the margins at Optum that whether the fourth quarter is seasonally driven et cetera.
I think in Steve's opening remarks he talked about that we do have seasonality at Optum.
So obviously the first quarter second quarter the first half of the year I think we gave an estimate that that would be about 40% 60% in the latter part of the year.
That was a trend in 2012.
We believe that will be -- will remain the trend in 2013.
So what we're trying to do David is balance investments and growth with financial discipline.
So we're comfortable with our plan.
We're comfortable with the 3-year plan and how this all fits.
But I think you're going to see that seasonality over the year.
If I move into the second area and I'll ask Dirk to comment on this as well when it comes to the PBM in-sourcing I think you know that was a very large undertaking over the past couple of years.
And I'm going to address that on 2 fronts.
The first front will be the technology the operating platforms the infrastructure.
And I can tell you that as we progress through the year last year we met our targets.
We delivered on that.
And Dirk will talk about the conversion that's gone seamless in the first quarter.
The second part of the PBM as we were getting into the commercial business was our external sales.
And I just want to comment that we kept going with sales as well with I think we mentioned at our Investor Day that we have made 50 deals at that point in time about half of those deals come from the national account side the UHC and the other half are independent external sales.
And it probably represents about 1 million new members.
So maybe Dirk you can comment on your thoughts.
Yes.
So on the commercial migration.
We just completed our first migration wave with 400 000 consumers moved from the ESI/Medco platform to our platform plus all commercial new business.
And that's gone pretty well.
We're excited.
Actually right now we sort of shifted gears and are thinking about the next migration wave which is on 4/1.
So the first wave sort of out of the blocks looking forward to the more conversions.
On the sales side all I would add is that we saw in 2012 extremely strong RFP season.
We actually didn't have enough people to answer all the RFPs.
We've staffed up in 2013 to be able to handle all that volume.
And Dave maybe Amil? Sure.
If you don't mind I'm just going to take it up a level because it's very early stage right now.
We've just begun our planning for the integration work that were doing with Amil.
As you might suspect most of that planning is really around the growth opportunities that exist in Brazil and possibly more broadly in the South American markets.
Areas of focus for us are really in operations and technology.
We think we can add a lot to Amil's platform in that respect.
Growth which is again the opportunity that exists in Brazil and again more broadly in South America.
Clinical areas and I think that's reciprocal.
They are very confident clinically and we're very confident at managing managed care populations at our network.
So a nice sharing there.
And then really around infrastructure and compliance as you might suspect as well.
Certainly many of the growth opportunities we see are for Optum.
But as I said we're just beginning to plan those activities now.
Certainly pharmacy is one of those that we are looking at carefully.
And broadly I'd just say we see great opportunity in Brazil and South America also for the benefits business.
And having just been there last week just reaffirms the terrific platform that we acquired.
So we're looking forward to the opportunities of the future.
Thanks.
So thank you for joining us today.
To kind of sum up today's discussion in 2012 the UnitedHealth Group continued the steady growth trajectory delivered consistently in terms of strong fundamental execution innovation adaptability.
It is a changing marketplace and we think we have resources to respond and adapt.
While it's still early in the new year we're well positioned to leverage our capabilities expand our position in the marketplace.
And then from 2013 we are off to a strong start in January.
So we look to the -- positively to the future in terms of what we offer the marketplace as well as what the demands of the Affordable Care Act the Accountable Care Act will represent in terms of opportunities for '14 and '15.
So we thank you for your attention and we'll see you next quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at any time.
Good morning.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here is some important introductory information: This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
This call will also reference non-GAAP amounts.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP to GAAP amounts is available on the Financial Reports and SEC Filings section of the company's Investors page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated April 18 2013 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we will review our strong start to 2013 and update you in broad terms on the environment we expect for the balance of this year and into 2014.
As you could see from our release this morning first quarter revenues grew more than 11% to reach $30.3 billion.
We continue to grow market share and increase the number of customers and consumers we serve across every one of our businesses that make up the 2 core platforms of UnitedHealthcare and Optum.
Our results reflect the consistent combination of fair and steady pricing disciplines fresh innovation in our products and approaches the capacity to address the changing needs of many of the key health care markets with comprehensive and integrated solutions and the fundamental values of consistent responsive and compassionate service in everything we do.
These elements all play to the steady top line growth we have been fortunate to realize this year and over the past 3-plus years as UnitedHealthcare has added a net 5 million U.S.
consumers virtually all organically over that challenging economic period and Optum has emerged as the distinctive enabling platform for advancing change across the health care system.
First quarter net earnings were $1.16 per share and were driven in particular by stronger earnings from Optum.
Cash flows from operations for the quarter of $1.1 billion represented 85% of net income a 9 percentage point improvement from the first quarter last year.
Our balance sheet remains strong with $3 billion free cash and quarter ending debt-to-capital ratio of 36%.
We repurchased more than $0.5 billion in shares for the quarter consistent with our annual plan; paid $216 million in dividends a 29% increase year-over-year; and our return on equity for the quarter was about 15%.
Turning to UnitedHealthcare.
In the commercial markets we worked closely with one of the largest fully insured customers in the nation to convert its coverage arrangements from risk to fee status.
While the bottom line impact of this conversion is negligible revenues are impacted significantly in this business by $2.5 billion annually.
Looking through this jumbo 1.1 million-member conversion our organic consumer growth is pacing ahead of our plan for the year with first quarter commercial membership growing 375 000 overall self-funded benefits up 480 000 people and risk-based benefits down a better-than-expected 105 000.
Commercial pricing yields are tracking well with our expectations and the commercial care ratio for UnitedHealthcare came in at a solid 78.3% for the quarter.
We are lowering our full year commercial medical care ratio target by 80 basis points from 82% to 81.2% plus or minus 50 basis points in large part to reflect the large case funding conversion.
Growth across our Medicare offerings was even stronger.
We added a net 300 000 seniors to Medicare Advantage 145 000 to Medicare supplemental benefits and 485 000 to standalone Part D drug benefits.
As expected Medicare &amp; Retirement margins were down in the first quarter given the Medicare ACA rate reductions the shift of our traditional level of first quarter Part D profits to later in the year with the introduction of our enhanced plan design the strong level of new growth in Medicare Advantage and significantly from unusually high levels of reserve development in the first quarter of 2012 which we were never expected to repeat in '13.
And sequestration will now add further margin pressure over the balance of the year.
In Medicaid we grew a net 65 000 people representing organic growth of 125 000 offset by a divestiture impacting 60 000 beneficiaries and we see no end to the growth opportunities.
We've been privileged to expand services in Arizona New Mexico Nevada and Florida.
We look forward to the significant opportunities to grow and serve additional states and to seek further in-state expansions as the Medicaid proposal pipeline remains robust.
And lastly we are pleased with the very strong growth of more than 200 000 commercial lives at Amil in the first quarter.
In all of these broad categories Commercial Medicare Part D Medicaid and International we are trending to the high end or above our growth outlook for 2013.
Looking at UnitedHealthcare on an all-in basis.
The first quarter operating margin of 5.8% was well within the range of our expectations.
As we also expected reserve development levels of $280 million for the quarter were sharply less than the unusually high $530 million in development in the first quarter of 2012.
The first quarter of 2012 also benefited from a care ratio rebate true-up of $130 million.
First quarter 2013 saw greater positive development in the commercial business than in the government-sponsored program but overall our cost estimates are proving to be quite accurate.
Operating cost management across UnitedHealthcare continues to be a strength even as we continue to spend to meet the extensive requirements of the new health care regulations.
Turning to Optum the growth pace accelerates further.
First quarter earnings from operations nearly doubled.
Revenues were $8.4 billion for the quarter a nearly 15% year-over-year top line growth performance.
Every Optum segment grew organically and benefited from the continuing efforts to integrate and simplify the organization focus on the customer and pivot to growth.
Revenue growth was exceptional with OptumHealth growing revenues 26% to $2.4 billion OptumInsight growing 15% to revenues of $773 million and OptumRx growing 10% to revenues of $5.2 billion.
For Optum margin restoration and expansion was an area of intense focus in 2012 and it remains so.
The progress has been impressive with Optum's operating margin at 5.9% for the quarter compared to 3.4% for the prior year quarter and with each of Optum's businesses meaningfully strengthening its margins.
OptumHealth doubled its margins from 4.7% to 9.3% for the quarter OptumInsight advanced from 13.3% to 19.3% first quarter margin and OptumRx expanded from 1.5% to a 2.3% margin even with continuing costs associated with the significant current year in-sourcing efforts.
The market needs and is looking for the enabling capabilities Optum offers.
We anticipate further client developments in coming quarters will illustrate just how strongly Optum is maturing holding its focus on execution and customer service and pivoting to growth.
As we assess our position and our outlook now informed by the events and perspectives of the first quarter we remain in a strong overall position with our unique diversified businesses growing and performing well.
That's in large part because we are serving customers well we're steadily advancing our agenda of value and innovation and strengthening and readying our businesses to both navigate the coming market changes and then maximize the market opportunities with the right timing.
As we move beyond the successful TRICARE implementations and migrations of more than 12 million consumers to the OptumRx platform we will redeploy energies and resources to advance new areas.
The early themes of these new areas have been discussed with you before.
They include: the comprehensive "New Basics" services model; a deep and substantive commitment to the rising importance of the consumer in health care; repeatable innovation disciplines and capability; deeper service and experience integration using simpler enabling technologies; and the acceleration of One Optum.
The businesses themselves are positioned to grow and perform well in service to their markets.
UnitedHealthcare businesses are growing well across the board.
Customer retention remain strong and the new Military &amp; Veterans platform is in place and operational.
2.9 million people from military families joined us on April 1.
In relation to the exchange markets that will begin in 2014 our views from last quarter remain unchanged.
We will be very selective in where we participate and do not believe the exchanges will be a significant factor for us either plus or minus in our 2014 commercial market outlook.
Amil is off to a strong beginning with its seasonally strong first quarter and has the potential to exceed its earnings plan for the year.
We see this market and Amil's market-leading offerings well positioned to grow and diversify in the traditions of both Amil and UnitedHealth Group.
Optum's momentum in growth and margin expansion should accelerate as it becomes increasingly capable and mature.
Optum is now tracking to reach or exceed the upper end of its earnings outlook for 2013 and is establishing its own reputation for fundamental execution service and innovation.
While we are performing well we are doing so in a challenging economic regulatory and health care climate.
The headwinds we have discussed in our past sessions with you remain very real.
By far the most impactful headwind is the Medicare Advantage rate picture for 2014.
While the final guidance was improved from the negative 8% all-in starting point it is still a significant challenge.
The cumulative net effect of the SGR resolution the mandated ACA rate reductions the strong negative impact of the risk recalibrations and the insurance stacks still leaves the Medicare Advantage program significantly underfunded a more than 4% net reduction against the typical industry forward medical cost trend outlook of 3% or more for 2014.
These rates will undoubtedly impact the more than 14 million Medicare Advantage beneficiaries across the nation and will cause UnitedHealthcare to reduce benefits and pull back access in certain markets and will affect the growth prospects and earnings potential for our overall Medicare Advantage offerings across all our markets for 2014.
We do not expect the fastest-growing most popular and most effective of the Medicare benefit options serving America's seniors to be underfunded to this extent in 2014 particularly with the backdrop of the already existing ACA mandates and sequestration.
We will take the time to fairly assess the implications to our 2014 UnitedHealth Group growth outlook and whether our growth expectations for 2014 can be sustained in light of the continuation of both sequestration and a significantly greater rate setback than anyone could have expected.
Coming back to 2013 our original outlook did not factor in sequestration which began on April 1.
It has the potential to burden us in a range of $250 million to $300 million over the balance of 2013.
We plan to absorb that within our $5.25 to $5.50 per share earnings outlook range for this year which keeps us oriented to the midpoint of that range for now.
And as always we are committed to delivering to the absolute best of abilities for you.
Our balance sheet is strong.
Our cash flows from operations are expected in the range of $7.2 billion to $7.6 billion this year.
We have already targeted returning up to $4 billion of that to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.
We expect the general narrative of UnitedHealth Group's story for 2014 to be largely the same as 2013.
Our commercial benefit businesses international businesses Medicaid and military businesses should all continue to perform well.
Medicare will likely experience market exits as well as in-market membership contraction as we reshape Medicare networks and benefits to respond to the continuing underfunding of this program.
We will continue to manage operating costs and improve both service and productivity for this program.
Optum will continue to grow and contribute more to our overall performance as virtually every Optum business and product line is growing and performing well and is expected to continue in that path.
We remain optimistic about the capacity and capability of our enterprise to serve society and to create the value for the people and customers we serve as well as for the health system at large.
Despite the great attention paid to rules regulations and political maneuvering in health care we keep sight of the fact that health care is about people: patients individual consumers physicians and other care professionals.
If people are served well with appropriate-quality care provided in a respectful and compassionate manner at a cost that's reasonable and if the professionals who provide that health care are treated respectfully then our health care system and our enterprise will move forward.
UnitedHealth Group has been built as a living evolving set of businesses focused on working serving and innovating on behalf of the people we serve in the communities where they live putting capital to work to create a distinctive return to investors while simultaneously advancing the health care system for a distinctive and constructive return to society.
Our strategy market positions and consistent execution for customers differentiate us and we are committed to responding creatively and aggressively to these more intense headwinds.
Now we'll be happy to take your questions this morning.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Ralph Giacobbe with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to go back to the conversion.
Maybe you can help us size the headwind from an earnings standpoint.
And then are there many more accounts that were this large that are still risk based and any comment on sort of incremental appetite to shift ahead of 2014? Yes I think Jeff Alter will -- the impact as we said was really negligible but Jeff Alter can really take you through this.
Yes I think it's important to keep in mind that this was a very unique case a $1.1 million fully insured case.
I think it's probably the largest fully insured case in the industry.
It was fully insured for decades.
We've been partners with this municipality for a very long time really because of regulatory constraints and the conversion shouldn't be seen as anything just playing out a decade-long processes of putting this case into a self-funded condition where most cases these size have always been.
There aren't any -- as you can imagine a case this size there really isn't any earnings headwind.
It was a long 3 -- almost 40-year relationship with this client.
So the earnings are stable is really just a plain funding conversion.
Research Division</strong> And then what about on the smaller side? Just -- yes.
This is Gail Boudreaux.
Just to follow Jeff Alter's comments.
To the second part of your question overall actually our conversions to self-funded have been relatively consistent.
There's been a longstanding movement from fully insured to self-funded.
But we didn't -- we have not seen any acceleration in that to your earlier question.
It's been pretty stable.
And we'll take our next question from Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Can you speak broadly about 2014 headwinds and tailwinds? I'm interested here in the growth in some of the unique businesses that United has such as Optum and Amil but also in the core U.S.
risk businesses particularly given the incremental information that you've received since the last time we spoke on changes to the risk coding calibration and counting rebasing for Medicare and provider contracting for exchanges with better clarity now on the unit cost basis you'll be using.
Sure.
So I think we'll parse these between -- a little bit between Optum and UnitedHealthcare.
I'll start out with Optum and I think our focus in UnitedHealthcare really will be around -- we will kind of be restating comments we made from our formal commentary about exchanges in Medicare.
I think really Medicare is the principal headwind on '14.
The rest of it I think we were trying to make it clear that our businesses are very strong and our growth is very strong including Medicare.
But Larry do you want to start with Optum? Sure.
Sarah it's Larry Renfro.
I think you're probably aware of the 3-year business plan that we put together last year.
We call it One Optum and we are -- as we finished 2012 we were in a situation of pretty good momentum that has carried forward in the first quarter.
I think also what we're experiencing with what's going on with rate cuts there is obviously increased pressure in the market.
And as a result Optum is actually having a lot of opportunity that's presenting itself to us.
So what I'm going to do I'm going to ask 3 people.
I'm going to start with Bill Miller and go to Stan Dennis and then to Kathy Hopkins to talk about their individual businesses within Optum so you'll get a better flavor for everything.
Thanks Larry and thanks Sarah.
This is Bill Miller.
I would say on the behalf of OptumInsight Larry is right that a lot of the growth certainly is expected based on all the work that we did in 2012 sort of establishing some sustainable new levels of performance.
But alongside of that and particularly in Q1 these pressures that Larry spoke about have showed up in Insight in 2 pretty simple ways: one in our payer market and provider market it's anything that our businesses do around operational performance quality and efficiency anything where our clients are feeling those pressures those are opportunities that often flow to Optum.
That's true in our per payer market around things like payment integrity and in our provider market it often shows up in some of our efficiency businesses and revenue cycle businesses.
The other thing I would stress that have been key areas of the growth as this environment with higher compliance requirements particularly in our payer business -- our provider business we're seeing the uptake of all of our compliance businesses pretty dramatically over 2012 but also going into 2013 and we expect that trend to continue as the heightened awareness about compliance is here to stay.
So that's where I would characterize our big growth areas.
There are others but those are 2 critical ones.
And I think they're brought on by some of the environments that both Steve and Larry have discussed.
But Stan? Thanks Bill.
Sarah this is Stan Dennis and I'm going to comment on the physician businesses that are principally organized within Collaborative Care and specialty networks.
I'm going to then hand it off to Kathy Hopkins and she's going to talk about our consumer-facing businesses.
So we had a strong start to the year for this group.
The Q1 performance is grounded in the solid plan that Larry referred to created momentum coming into the quarter across all of our business units and we remain committed to its execution.
The results are driven principally by a healthy balance between growth and cost management discipline.
I can't point to one business that drove the results for the group as all the business units across the group are performing at the upper end of their range.
Collaborative Care asset has a broad and growing footprint with solid performance.
In a measured way we are integrating these practices which is part of our simplification plan and doing so in a way that it adds value to improving care and affordability in the communities that we serve.
We have several lines of business in our specialty networks division all with strong performance and the performance of our military reserve readiness business is solid as well.
So we had a strong start to the quarter.
We have our head down.
We're going to continue to focus on executing on this plan pivoting to growth.
And as we do so we believe these businesses will continue to scale nicely and perform well.
Kathy? Thank you Stan.
This is Kathy Hopkins and as Stan mentioned I will speak to Optum's consumer-facing businesses.
We're seeing strong demand for our care management financial and distribution services.
And as Larry mentioned we're performing solidly against our 3-year plan.
We're enjoying the benefits of our cost management programs that we put in place in the last year and expect these benefits to carry forward.
We're also enjoying the benefits of scale and simplification of many of our business lines.
We remain focused on execution and continuing to further develop our products and services that help consumers as they choose their benefits navigate the health care system and make good decisions about their health.
These programs are being well received in the marketplace.
And as Stan said I don't think I can point any one aspect of our business that contribute to be the driver but we are really performing well across all aspects of our business.
Comment on Amil.
You may comment here Dirk.
Sure.
As from PBM's perspective we had a nice growth year and over the last 12 months we've grown a little over 1 million members.
What I would say our value proposition remains strong.
We've talked about it before in New York.
Really it's all about optimizing health outcomes and minimizing costs and we do that by using our clinical engine to bring together all the pharmacies the lab the medical data the behavioral data to have appropriate interventions again to minimize costs and optimize health outcome and that value proposition continues to resonate within the marketplaces.
So pretty positive across the board.
And then maybe Gail you want to talk about UnitedHealthcare? And maybe Dave at the end comment on Amil? Sure.
Two questions I think you had embedded there.
I'll focus on exchanges and Medicare.
First on the exchanges side I think Steve -- as Steve said in his opening comments we don't see the exchanges on the commercial side having a significant positive or negative impact in 2014.
We do think that there's still long-term growth opportunities in the exchanges so we're still positive over the long term.
Overall our position on exchanges hasn't changed as we gave you a broad range at the last call.
As we think about the contracting side again I think I shared this last time that we see the contracting based on a market-by-market assessment and the economics needed to participate effectively in that market and an exchange.
So those rates are going to vary from commercial to something less.
We've had a pretty long history of having value-based networks and have been successful at that.
And I would tell you at this stage our contracting for the exchange markets is going very well so we feel positive about that.
Turning to Medicare.
That is the most impactful headwind that we face heading into 2014.
Again I think in Steve's opening comments as we think about a 4%-plus rate impact plus the impact of sequestration against the backdrop of a 3% trend in Medicare that's an accumulated impact that is more significant than we would have expected.
So that is -- we are in the process right now of doing our bids.
We're doing a market-by-market assessment of what those imply by each of our markets again as part of the accumulated underfunding but we do feel we have a very strong Medicare business.
And as part of that assessment we will be using our clinical assets and looking at optimizing our network to provide the broadest-based support and consistent benefits for seniors because that's been part of what we've been looking to do.
So that would I think define the headwind in terms of Medicare for '14.
And the rest of the business line is all strong.
Yes and the other -- good point on that.
The other businesses I think as you saw in our growth this year really positive about how our products and services are tracking.
We're really pleased to have brought TRICARE on this year and feel very positively about the growth trajectory that we've seen not only with this year but over the last several years.
On Amil? And Sarah Dave Wichmann on Amil.
Thank you for your recognition of it.
It's a very strongly positioned enterprise in Brazil.
The brand the value proposition from its own delivery components its strong service reputation and the value that they provide to the various communities inside Brazil is I believe unmatched.
Coupled with that are the market dynamics which are such that they support meaningful growth in that market similar to what we're starting to see shape up here in 2013.
So a combination of those 2 things should provide a good avenue for both revenue and earnings growth in 2014 and beyond.
As we step into 2014 and into the future we also see the potential to access meaningful new markets in Brazil that are not or are underserved by Amil today.
And in addition we see a great opportunity to address services offerings.
As you might expect there is -- there are very little capabilities to the extent that we see with Optum and we see great opportunity for that enterprise in the future.
And we'll take our next question from Christine Arnold with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you elaborate on 2 issues related to your commentary on 2014: the collectibility of the Medicaid premium tax and when you're saying you don't expect the exchanges to impact your commercial businesses are you including the potential impact of any margin compression in small group? And can you address that potential issue as well? Sure.
So Gail do you want to discuss that and then maybe Steve Nelson can talk about Medicaid? Sure.
Let me start with the first question which was around the tax on -- insurance tax on Medicaid.
Just -- so we've been in a constant dialogue with our state Medicaid directors around the impact of the tax and we are including that in our rate exhibits as we talk to them.
It's recognized as a cost to the program.
I think what's important there is Medicaid is a little bit different than Commercial in that our rate negotiations occur not just at a single point in time but they're ongoing.
So they occur at the beginning of the cycle throughout the cycle and that's a pretty common occurrence.
It's early in the process with them.
We are including them again in the rate exhibit and we think that there has been a positive dialogue about that.
In terms of the impact on exchanges our assessment is that at this stage just given the overall impact not necessarily commenting on margins in small group but our overall participation in the exchanges we have a very robust product offering outside of the exchanges.
As I mentioned one of the tools that we're using are to build value-based products.
We've seen most of our small group growth in those products already so we think we're very well positioned to also have a robust offering outside of the exchange.
Steve do you want to add anything further? Sure just one point.
It's Steve Nelson.
I wanted to just add to Gail's comments we have a very active and robust rate advocacy process and are engaged continuously with the states.
And as you know it's a challenging rate environment but so far as Gail mentioned early it's early in the year but those conversations seem to be effective and very productive.
LLC Research Division</strong> Oh.
So am I hearing that you don't expect an impact on small group margins because you've got these value-based products and you think that you can convert people to them? Yes.
Yes I think that's right.
Gail do you want to? No I think we have a whole portfolio of products Christine and I think our -- we've always had a strategy of offering employers a multitude of options.
That's been pretty consistent at least over the last 4 or 5 years.
And while there are different pressures clearly it's a very competitive market in small group.
We work really hard to make sure that we put our clinical and network assets to work to offer employers a broad range.
But at this stage we're not commenting on margins specifically there.
If we take a look at the growth that UnitedHealthcare has been able to achieve in the commercial markets that has been in the newer products that has been in a wide variety of products.
So I think that we've been deployed in this posture for a few years now.
We'll take our next question from Matt Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Yes I apologize if you mentioned this earlier but can you -- are you prepared to reiterate your view of overall earnings growth for 2014? And if you could maybe a dovetail into that what about Medicare Advantage enrollment? Do you -- directionally can you say if you think that's going to be up or down based on everything that's changing? Well I thought that in our prepared comments that we had addressed that so maybe I could restate a little bit for you Matt.
Research Division</strong> Well yes.
I'm sorry.
I probably -- I just missed it then.
You did okay.
It is -- I'll be happy to touch on it.
But we were comfortable last quarter with the overall '14 earnings growth outlook before the 2014 Medicare Advantage rate actions were taken.
So I think then as you stand back and look at the basic overall funding in terms of MA it has been pressured the last couple of years and is already absorbing ACA mandates in terms of a rate reduction.
And then if you believe that sequestration would come on top of that you would never have expected a beginning point of an 8% net reduction in 2014 rates to occur.
And then when they -- basically as that process cleared and some relief was provided you still stand back and look at a net reduction of 4% or more against an overall 3% cost trend in the program.
So taken together with the other pressures that's really not sustainable funding in our view and it will cost us to reconsider our overall '14 growth rate in this program to evaluate market exits to address benefits to reshape our networks in those markets.
And that was not really the premise as we basically leaned into 2014 from a growth outlook point of view.
So we are evaluating that at this point in time given the finalization of those programs really on a market-by-market basis to the extent they are actions that we can take to mitigate this continued program and the underfunding and assess whether '14 can absorb that change and still grow earnings.
So our long-term view on Medicare is unchanged.
We're very strong in terms of the efficacy of the program.
The underfunding has been a challenge and we are reassessing that '14 based upon the rate actions that were taken.
And that's why as we discussed in the previous question that really our focus when we look at headwinds for 2014 is around Medicare.
And we'll take our next question from Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the government side.
Can you -- 2 things.
One can you tell us how much the Part D seasonality impacted the quarter versus the typical that you'd previously seen because of that shift to the enhanced plan? And then you mentioned the pressure on Medicare margins due to rates.
It's clear Medicare margins [indiscernible] they came down MLR up this year going to do somewhat similar -- you've got pressures in '14.
You've talked about a 3% to 5% margin.
Can you tell us how -- are you there yet? Are you close to it? Do you expect to be there next year? Just to give us some idea on how to size that headwind going forward from Medicare.
So Dan? Justin Dan Schumacher.
So your first question with respect to the Part D timing and the implications of that on the quarter as you look at it in the context of our overall UnitedHealth Group loss ratio you can think of that in terms of about 50 to 100 basis points' impact to our overall group loss ratio in the quarter.
Basically our revenue is -- -- recognition is being shifted out later in the year so it's a big impact in the first quarter moderates in the second and then it recovers in the third and the fourth quarter.
With respect to the margin performance in our government programs our target margin is in the 3% to 5% range and some years we perform in excess of that.
And we were -- we are near that range now in our performance.
Research Division</strong> So overall you feel like you're near that range now? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just slip one other in on the recalibration can you give us an idea of what you think that is? I mean if I did the math right from what you said you thought it was 8 before now it's 4.
You got 5% back from the SGR effects.
So are you saying you think that's about a 100 basis point headwind from the risk or recalibration the new model there? Or do you think it's more or less than that? No it think it's more than that Justin substantially more which is why we're commenting on it.
Dan? Yes.
I think Justin as we look at the impact of that across the industry we would size the recalibration more in the order of magnitude of around a 2.5% impact.
Research Division</strong> And I would assume it's higher on maybe HMO plans that code better have higher acuity.
Could it be -- I've heard industry experts say it could be as much as 500 basis points for a real good IPA-based HMO versus maybe even less than 250 for a PPO that's maybe less well coded.
I mean is that about right? I'm not going to comment on specific product offerings but I will tell you you're right.
There is certainly variation as you look across products and geographies in terms of the impact of recalibration but not to -- not likely the order of magnitude you're talking about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So not as wide a spread.
We'll take our next question from A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just to take a minute to talk about the OptumRx situation.
Have you sized the cost that you're incurring this year to transition that in-house? And does that spread evenly over the course of the year? And is there early commentary on the selling season for them and what that looks like? Well I would say a couple of things.
So first of all how is the transition going? We migrated 400 000 and the first of the year 400 000 members converted.
We actually also added 500 000 new members to the platform at the beginning of the year.
On 4/1 we just added 2 million members so we've migrated 3 million members so far.
From a run rate standpoint it'll be $200 million in operating profit.
On a run rate basis we still have some ramp-up costs and development costs in 2013.
We haven't specifically sized those externally yet but we'll -- that's really where we sit.
Research Division</strong> But you'll likely...
That was Dirk McMahon by the way.
And you'll likely carry those into the third quarter as you go through that and then they'll start to peel down in the fourth quarter and into '14.
Yes that's the important point.
We have development and ramp-up of personnel costs throughout the first half of the year.
And as Steve said they'll peel down and we'll hit our full run rate in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Any comment about the selling season so far? I know we're still a little early.
We've had some -- we've sold some cases already of course.
What I would say is our proposal buying is up.
It is a little bit early.
We've seen an increase in proposals over last year and I guess I -- that's all I'll comment at this point.
And we'll take our next question from Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I just wanted to come back to the revised commercial MLR guidance.
I want to make -- is the 80 basis point decline entirely due to the risk to ASO conversion? And then with regard to the quarter specifically year-to-year the MLR was down 40 bps.
We don't have the prior year development by segment.
I'm just try to get a sense for one in the change of guidance is that all related to conversion? And two what would the MLR have been without the conversion in the quarter? Chris it's Dan Schumacher.
So with respect to the commercial loss ratio and the impact of the funding conversion it was around 80 basis points in the quarter and on the full year.
So that's why we've revised our full year medical care ratio guidance to 81.2% plus or minus 50 basis points so down 80 basis points from our Investor Day guidance.
As you look at the influencing factors year-over-year in the commercial loss ratio certainly that played a meaningful role in it.
We also had the absence of leap year which is more pronounced in the commercial business and then pushing the other way would be the change in development as well as the large rebate true-up that we recognized in the first quarter of 2012.
So those are the major impacts in the commercial loss ratio in the quarter.
We'll take our next question from Dave Windley with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to stick with commercial loss ratio.
The -- couple of hospitals have come out and talked about low volumes in the first quarter.
Would you say that -- lower than they expected anyway.
Would say that they were more in line with what you expected or is it too early to see enough development in the claims to reflect those low volumes in the first quarter? Dan Schumacher again.
As we look at our medical cost performance in the quarter we were very pleased with it and it paced out as we expected.
So as you look at both the composition of it from a unit cost and utilization perspective as well as the elements by cost category we're not seeing any meaningful change in that from what we said in Investor Day.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So your cost trend guidance and the buckets within that guidance are essentially unchanged.
Is that -- do I understand that correctly? Correct.
And we really aren't necessarily standing on claims.
We have good visibility with respect to particularly inpatient settings and so forth so again unchanged but we're not sitting and waiting for claims data.
That's the only thing I'd like to correct to that.
Our next question comes from Ana Gupte with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> So coming to the quarter you've talked a lot about the headwinds for the next year.
I'm trying to get an understanding of what is your strategy for 2013 and 2014 on the share-versus-margin tradeoff in '13 and how that might play out into '14.
Is this...
I didn't hear this clearly.
Could you just restate it again? LLC</strong> Yes.
So the notion of the share-versus-margin tradeoff between Commercial versus the government businesses.
You've expanded margins in Commercial.
I understand it's largely leap year and MLR true-up and all that but the surveys are showing that you and other companies are pricing up in Commercial.
So you're certainly moving toward margin over share.
If you look at Medicare on the other hand Part D you came out with a $15 product on Part D.
You've had outsized share gains Part D outsized share gains in MA.
And what is your target margin? And why should it be 3% to 5% in Medicare when with an 85% MLR and the MLR flow rate you can do better than that at a 10% SG&amp;A? Well that's a very good question.
But I also would maybe level set this a little bit that we try to keep our pricing and our approaches to the marketplace in a consistent stable approach year-to-year so pricing essentially to our cost trying to innovate and advance a variety of products to meet the different needs of the marketplace.
So it is maybe more broad and more balanced than your question suggests and we are out to optimize the performance of our business and the performance of our margins no matter what the circumstances are in the context of maintaining sustainable products and sustainable offerings in the marketplace.
And I agree with your point that we should be able to get above target margins at full scale and at full operating performance in mature markets.
And I think in many respects we do that both in the commercial and Medicare sectors.
And now after that kind of commercial announcement I'll hand this over to Gail and Jeff and so forth to kind of respond to the pricing.
Jeff? Jeff Alter.
Yes I think Steve said it well.
We have a very long philosophy around commercial pricing which is we price to our forward cost trend and really don't play too many games around that.
And that has served us well over the years and we believe it will continue to serve us well maybe even service us in a much better way as we get into the '14 '15 time frame.
So I don't think we really are discussing a tradeoff.
We just -- we have a disciplined pricing methodology that has served us well and we continue to employ that as we go forward.
And while we always have to pay attention to it the fact is we've had very steady consistent growth in both self-funded and actually on a relative basis market share gains in the risk-based because of the level of contraction in that marketplace and maintaining margins.
And then on the Medicare side? Well I think we shared -- I mean the issue on Medicare as we shared on this call is really the underfunding of the program and we worked very hard on both the clinical side as well as the network optimization and then finally our cost structure.
That's been an area of focus.
So as I think about all of our government programs and our target margins there we work to be extremely efficient while improving service.
So the operating cost is a lever and then our clinical programs are important to delivering value to beneficiaries.
And I'd just throw in that basically these are very well-established well-penetrated programs in the marketplace almost 30% market share in Medicare Advantage.
And the underfunding pressure is really more intense in the Medicare Advantage product line.
So it's not like Medicare across-the-board supplemental offerings Part D offerings are really different.
It's the funding overall funding philosophies of the Medicare Advantage platform that are -- that need to be strengthened.
LLC</strong> So just one quick follow-up on that.
On MA as you're doing your product bids which need to be submitted in June and all this underfunding you're alluding to in 2014 should we expect that you will be as we're modeling out 2014 that your margins will get better because you bid more conservatively at the expense of enrollment growth? Or will it go the other way in that you're willing to -- in your optimization you're willing to gain share and keep losing margin? Maybe I will start out by saying first of all it's -- like anything in health care it's a market-by-market proposition which is why we need to be very thoughtful about how we go forward in this.
In some markets we'll take actions that will be more conservative and more pulling back.
In other markets we may not be -- feel necessary to do that.
It also brings in dynamics of network positioning and so forth so it is a much more multifaceted than simply what our benefit would be in a particular market.
And I think that's why it takes time and there isn't kind of a single-gear response to your question that we'll price like x and calculate market share.
Although I would say that based upon the funding level you'd have to -- we've been clear we will be pulling back from markets and so we don't expect the growth in the MA product line the MA product line in 2014 to be as robust because of the actions we're going to have to take to as your point preserve margins.
And we'll go next to Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to stick on MA and just interested if you can talk a little bit about utilization trends observed so far in the new membership that you've added so far this year relative to the more mature MA membership that you already have.
And then maybe just touch on the lives that you've added in California particularly relative to some of the PPO products that members were previously enrolled in with competitors and how you're seeing the utilization trends in those members.
Dan or Jack? Sure.
Scott Dan Schumacher.
With respect to our utilization in MA I will tell you that it's pacing as -- about as we expected.
Certainly our new growth tends to have a higher first year loss ratio and that improves in the second year.
And that improvement comes on the maturation of the revenue as we get more complete diagnoses as well as our clinical programs begin to take hold and those results begin to emerge.
So from a utilization perspective it's pacing as we expected but obviously our new growth comes with a higher loss ratio.
Yes and I would say -- Scott Jack Larsen.
The overall portfolio or profile I guess of new membership we got was very much in keeping with our expectations.
As you pointed out in your question it's only been 2 months really of development with these new members.
And so far I don't think we're seeing anything unanticipated.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just as a quick follow-up.
Just interested if you can maybe give us some initial comments just on the CalPERS contract that were announced and then maybe just talk about some of the changes that CalPERS might have made with the new structures that make you more comfortable about participating in CalPERS risk business given that historically when the public plans that participated used to be a pretty volatile book of business.
It's Jeff Alter.
It's really hard for us to comment on CalPERS right now.
We're pleased.
We thought we had a very strong offering for that RFP.
We're pleased that we were selected as one of the 4 and we're actually in the second phase right now of negotiations so very hard for us to comment on that.
John Penshorn here.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Was hoping you could walk through the mechanics of sequestration touching specifically on how much you're assuming you're going to be able to pass through providers in the hit you're talking about and how long you think it will take to fully offset the impacts.
In other words on that last piece just go into if it's going to be as big of an impact in '14 as you think it's going to be in '13? Sure.
Sure.
Carl it's Gail Boudreaux.
So as you know sequestration results in a lower reimbursement of 2% for our Medicare Advantage and Part D program.
We've shared this before.
We have some natural hedges to that.
In Steve's opening comments we talked about the impact.
Our goal what we're going to be doing is we'll be offsetting our reimbursement where our payments are tied and indexed to fee-for-service Medicare that will be offset.
And then our lower payments to capitated providers.
Those that are not as tied to that we'll be working obviously to manage through that as part of the overall program.
But obviously given the time to implement that's why we've identified the $250 million to $300 million impact in 2013.
Some programs don't have any like Part D [indiscernible]...
And Part D doesn't have any in there so that's part of the issue.
And we'll get more absorption as this goes on.
We'll get this more absorbed into the marketplace.
So the impact going forward should dissipate.
And we'll take our next question from Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I don't want to belabor all the other points.
I guess just a question on the repurchases.
I know we'll see it in the Q but could you give us an update on maybe the monthly repurchase numbers and maybe more specifically how much was done after February 15? Josh it's Dave.
This may be the first question we've ever been asked on monthly repurchase activity.
Research Division</strong> It was an important quarter I think.
Well as you -- we repurchased about 9.9 million shares in the quarter.
And as you would expect we try to repurchase -- our mechanisms are such that we repurchase more when the stock price is down.
And so as it tailed off our repurchase activity accelerated.
I won't get into specifics about what we purchased in the last half of February or through March but ...
We're methodical so...
But we're very methodical about what we do.
And certainly as our stock price goes down we're more heavily in the market.
Research Division</strong> But you guys have discretion on that right based on your corporate outlook and things like that? That's just not a mechanical calculation based on stock price is it? That's right.
We do have discretion with respect to that.
As you recall Josh given the Amil transaction we were trying to meter to bring in a debt-over-debt-plus-equity at 35% by the end of the second quarter of the year.
Overall we said we'd do $2.5 billion to $3 billion of share repurchases.
So we're edging up towards the upper end of that range for this year.
And so that obviously mathematically would increase our repurchase activity for the balance of the year.
So it -- we are on plan and we are the levels that we would have anticipated for the quarter.
We are regular and methodical in the marketplace.
And I would say when we -- what changes is the pace of it.
So we pace it in terms of that but we are basically at this on a regular basis.
This is a methodical program.
The pacing of it changes and that's all.
We'll take our next question from Michael Baker with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I know you commented on the exchanges.
I was just wondering in terms of that as you continue to evaluate them how much of a factor is it as it relates to some states now considering taking the Medicaid expansion and running through the exchange? Is that a factor for you guys or really not meaningful in light of the broader picture? I'll -- maybe I'll have Steve Nelson comment on this.
But what the beauty of our diversified model is is that we basically cover all the markets.
And we've said actually probably as much as 2 years ago when it became clear that this kind of a marketplace channel would become established that we really are covered on it on both sides from the Medicaid side and the commercial side so...
Sure.
Michael Steve Nelson.
States are evaluating a lot of different alternatives to -- they're struggling with how to cover their uninsured bring down the cost of Medicaid programs.
So you've seen just one alternative that they're considering alongside a variety of things.
And we're very engaged in those conversations with the states and bring a lot of capabilities.
And the advantage is as Steve mentioned we have broad capabilities not just in the Medicaid program but across all of our products.
And so the exchange decision and conversation is one that is outside of just Medicaid or commercial.
So let me just ask Jeff to comment on the exchange strategy.
And with respect to -- Nevada I think is one in particular that has required us to participate in exchange as part of our Medicaid contract.
Sure.
It's Jeff Alter.
Yes as we've said in the past we're going to gauge our participation based upon how we assess each one of those local markets.
And I would say that part of that assessment is our commercial teams working very closely with the -- our Medicaid teams coming up with the value proposition for not just one or the other but for both.
And that is part of our decision-making process as we pace through market-by-market decisions.
I will reiterate though that as we said in the past we believe that there's going to be some pacing with exchanges and it's not just a '14 event.
It is a market that will develop and mature and be part of the distribution of small business as well as covering individuals and perhaps in some states and some markets Medicaid population.
And as of that market develops we will make those decisions together.
We'll go next to Sheryl Skolnick with CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> I'll try to be quick with this question.
One of the things that I think the market's focused on and appropriately as you have this is the issues around MA.
But some of the commentary and I think some of the concern we're seeing is a perception that MA is the single either largest or only growth driver in the business.
Perhaps you can help us to put this in the appropriate perspective and view it with the appropriate level of concern which is is it one component of growth? Is it the only component of growth? Can you parse out the growth for us that you're seeing if not in 2014 then a year like 2012 or 2013? Help guide us in our thinking about the potential impact of changes in MA versus the performance of the rest of the business.
I think we tried to suggest that the performance of the rest of the businesses is really quite strong.
That the business the Optum businesses not only exceeded expectations for the quarter the momentum is growing there.
And it wasn't in isolated Optum businesses it was across the entire expanse of that portfolio of businesses and offerings.
And we see them as a meaningful growth element and an increasingly growth element for us in 2014 and beyond.
And that is really unchanged.
I think what's -- what we will have been pleased with is how rapidly this has gotten traction and the substance of it how solid the business is maturing.
The Amil business is another platform that we think has significant potential and where we would be looking to continue to align our combined capabilities and potentially continue to invest to build that to be an even more meaningful platform going forward 2014 and the years to come.
And then the UnitedHealthcare businesses just take a look at the growth which is why we came back to the $5 million over the last 3 years.
And the broad base of it growth in every single offering meaningful growth.
We think market share gains across each of them.
And it's not just a current year phenomenon this is 3 years or more.
And that doesn't even include the $3 million that we'll be reporting next quarter on the TRICARE business.
So the focus is to optimize those businesses across their expanse and that was the whole purpose of the diversified business model in the first place.
And Medicare is one that is getting more than its share of attention because of the fundings posture that it's experiencing.
And that one is really focused to Medicare Advantage.
We will work through that as well.
It is just a more severe funding posture than we would have anticipated given all the elements that have hit the Medicare Advantage program over the last year or so.
So does that put it into perspective? Research Division</strong> It does.
I guess what I was kind of hoping for was something more quantitative than that which might help us think through how much might be at risk.
But I don't suppose I'm going to get that am I? Well I think if you were going to get it I would have put it in -- carefully put it in the prepared comments.
So what I did carefully put in there is that we are assessing this very seriously in terms of evaluating to what extent we can overcome the headwinds of Medicare Advantage with all the other elements of our business and produce growth in 2014.
And that's our goal.
Next we have Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to stay on this MA side of things because I'm still a bit confused a couple of points here.
I think it really it really comes down maybe to expectations.
It sounds like versus what we were expecting anyway the MA MLR was disappointing.
But when you talk about it the things that you highlight as far as lack of development as far as Part D seasonality as far as PPACA cuts it sounds like all those things you actually highlighted last quarter and so they were all known things.
Did you think that Q1 was in line as far as you feel on the MA side of things and that maybe it's just a perception side from our side of it? Or was Q1 a little bit weaker than you thought on MA particularly? And then 2 the comments about 2014.
Although I understand the rate for 2014 is not a good rate it is it more or less what I think everyone thought it would be back in January.
Obviously we got hit with a worse proposal and then it got fixed kind of back I think to where we all thought it was going to be.
So I'm really trying to understand why the tone has changed so much from the view about 2014 growing when to me really the only thing that's changed in the MA reg is really the coding adjustments.
Is the coding just really that big of an issue as far as being the unexpected part of the final role versus where we were before to cause you to say "Yes MA were not going to be able to grow it and maybe our whole earnings number is at risk for 2014"? So that's a quite an involved question but -- so let me see if I can provide a simpler response and answer.
We're very happy with our MA business.
We have a very good growth.
We have very good products.
We have great positioning into the marketplace.
It is perhaps affected by contrast to the prior year quarter where we had meaningful reserve development and never anticipated we would ever -- we didn't anticipate it in the first quarter of '12 to have that level of reserve development.
We certainly didn't expect it to repeat in the first quarter here.
So I think the health of our MA business is quite robust.
Our concern is the forward looking.
And that may be an expectation issue because when you take a look at all the elements of -- that have hit the funding experience of the MA program I think the very significant factor was in lieu of that background starting out with a negative 8% and then basically coming out with a final which is in essence a relatively negative 4% maybe even a touch higher against a 3% overall trend strikingly higher than -- so the year before was 1.5% in that zone.
That would have been more manageable.
So it is really overcoming that funding posture going forward that then begins to cascade through a variety of things.
To respond to that you need to think about benefit adjustments that are more dramatic than what we have typically liked to manage in the marketplace network adjustments that are more dramatic.
And so I think the difference is I know that some people were relieved that the SGR came through and that -- focus on that element.
But when you stand back and look at the total funding status of that program it's down 4% and that is significant.
Research Division</strong> But that's not what you were -- down 4% what we were kind of assuming the number would be if you throw in all-in.
But you're saying that you -- when you made that comment before you were thinking maybe similar to the way it's been the last couple of years which is maybe down 1.5%.
If you are thinking of supporting the program if you think about that as perhaps the best offering of Medicare in the marketplace the one that seniors have high satisfaction with and strong growth and strong response and one that manages costs the posturing of funding that is what we're taking -- is what we're discussing.
Think it is the expectation Kevin.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Halper with Lazard Capital.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
As you look at the development of the state exchanges understanding that you're being very deliberate in pursuing those opportunities can you sort of update us on where you think the whole program stands? I know it's a general question.
But more specifically the federal government looks like they're under increasing pressure to get this thing done.
And do you foresee any scenarios where the administration has to back off and say "We need another 6 months or 1 year to get this done." And just your views on that? We really don't have any insight on that.
We are presuming that these programs and these capabilities will go into market as scheduled.
That has been the posture throughout and we are acting to be ready to respond to those.
So we are not seeing or believing or suggesting anything to the contrary.
We're presuming that it is going forward as planned and as scheduled.
We'll take our last question from Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
But can you just go over the operating cash flow? It was fairly very weak in the quarter.
When do you expect to reverse itself in the second quarter? And what exactly caused the weakness this quarter? Dave? Peter it's Dave Wichmann.
Thanks for your question.
The operating cash flows were actually stronger this quarter than they were in the comparative quarter last year.
And they came in line exactly as we expected.
The cash flows at UnitedHealth Group at least are seasonally down in the first and second quarters and they are stronger in the third and the fourth.
The thing that really affect that are the timing of a risk adjustment payments which generally come in the third and then also the Part D timing as an example.
So but that's -- we're -- we expect to follow pretty much a pattern similar to last year.
Operating cash flows for the year should be in the range of $7.2 billion to $7.6 billion which is 1.3x or more times net income.
This is John Penshorn.
Dave I think last year we also had some timing differences around some of those government receivables in the second quarter.
They came in early.
So it may even be a little more second half biased.
Is that fair? That's right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you didn't change the guidance on your consolidated medical loss ratio.
I assume that's really just the offset of sequestration versus the commercial account conversion.
Is that correct? That's right Peter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
and then you talked about recalibration being 250 basis points.
Was that over 2 years or was that over 1 year? No that's 1 year.
So that's your 3-part 1-question limit Peter so thank you very much.
So wrapping up our call today I'd like to recap just a couple of points.
Our enterprise is performing well.
In the first quarter we delivered significant growth in people served in market share in revenue across all of our businesses and internationally.
UnitedHealthcare's commercial benefits Medicare Medicaid military businesses as well as Amil all continue to diversify and steadily grow.
Optum's momentum is accelerating as the market for health services expands and it's expanding we think at kind of exponential levels.
And we believe no other company has the positioning the resources the people to take on the challenges of health care and succeed in this marketplace and in our mission.
So thank you very much for joining us today.
We'll see you next quarter.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning.
I will be your conference operator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here are some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
This call will also reference non-GAAP amounts.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP amounts is available on the Financial Reports and SEC Filings section of the company's Investors page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated July 18 2013 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Good morning and thank you for joining us this morning to review our first half 2013 and the longer-term future we continue to build at UnitedHealth Group.
The performance of the quarter and the first half of this year reflect many of the themes we are focusing on with intensity across UnitedHealth Group: growing by serving more people with higher and more consistent quality with compassion and a better more modern and personal consumer experience; making health care more affordable by enabling the health care consumer the care provider and the system itself to become a more effective system of health and wellness; advancing the performance and value of this enterprise for shareholders through operating and capital disciplines in both growth and strategic diversification as well as dividend and share recapture.
We see several of these elements in our first half performance in a number of ways such as the consistent broad-based growth across each of our market-facing business groups; medical cost trends that have remained in check and will help to keep health benefits affordable; the increasing pace in product innovation and adoption as nearly 6 million consumers now embrace our incentive product design and our rapidly growing portfolio of consumer tools; the rapid acceleration of deeper and more integrated performance-based payment relationships with care providers that will reach above 25 billion by this year end; and the increase in our dividend to more than $1 billion annually even as we sustain $3 billion in share buyback.
We have a great deal more to do.
We are far from performing to our potential.
Although we are seeing steady advancements on many fronts we are redoubling our commitment to consistent execution in the core fundamentals of our businesses.
We are determined to accelerate the pace of innovation and the adoption of simpler and more modern approaches and technologies and ever better approaches consistently delivering higher-quality care and access and to make health care more understandable and affordable for both the individual consumer and for our society.
Our performance in the first half of 2013 was characterized by this growing business momentum continued service expansion and diversification across the enterprise.
In the second quarter UnitedHealth Group earned $1.40 per share up 10% year-over-year with revenues over $30.4 billion up 11.5% year-over-year.
As expected the consolidated operating margin decreased slightly year-over-year by 30 basis points as the consolidated medical care ratio increased to 20 basis points to 81.5% reflecting our continued strong growth and diversification into government benefit programs.
And accelerating growth from our services international and fee-based businesses produced a 90 basis point rise in the consolidated operating cost ratio to 15.9%.
The level of services growth has become so meaningful that it continues to outstrip steady efficiency gains from our multi-year initiatives enhancing quality simplicity and system-wide productivity as well as our concentrated focus on cost management across UnitedHealthcare Optum and UnitedHealth Group.
While this ratio has increased it remains largely a reflection of the ongoing growth and diversification across UnitedHealth Group.
Cash flows from operations were $1.5 billion in the quarter and $2.5 billion through 6 months.
We decreased our debt-to-total capital ratio by 160 basis points during the quarter to 34.6% at June 30 and ended the quarter with $1.2 billion in available cash.
Last month our board increased our dividend by 32% to an annual rate of $1.12 per share and renewed our share repurchase program with a fresh authorization for the repurchase of 110 million shares.
These decisions reflect confidence in the strength and consistency of our underlying earnings and cash generation capacities into the future.
In the current quarter UnitedHealth Group continued its pattern of steady consistent growth and market share gains and we see more growth to come in the next few years in areas such as commercial and consumer benefits through public and private exchanges Medicare Advantage state Medicaid expansions Medicaid long-term care dual-eligible MMEs military and veteran benefits and services the emerging Brazilian market and the continuing maturation of Optum's broad range of services for consumers care providers payers and other participants in the health system as a whole.
Let's review second quarter business results starting with UnitedHealthcare where the story remains one of remarkable growth and continued market share gains.
Over the past 12 months UnitedHealthcare has been the fastest-growing health benefits company increasing the number of people served by more than 9 million.
This includes more than 2.9 million people in TRICARE and another 4.7 million people from Amil in Brazil both new markets for us.
Overall growth has been driven by offering distinct and innovative consumer benefits and services shaped to respond to local market needs and affordable price points for consumers.
UnitedHealthcare has designed a comprehensive system of capability that aligns modern incentive-based benefit designs with easy and convenient consumer empowerment tools that engage effective clinical care wellness programs which in turn channel naturally into incentivized performance-based care delivery access.
This aligned system leverages better informed and incentive consumer and care provider behaviors to produce sustainable cost and performance advantages and deeper more innovative relationships with consumers care providers and plan sponsors across all market segments.
Effective incentive alignment with consumer benefits through the care provider rewards is a critical component to sustainably improving broader accountability and effective payer to care provider integration.
We are the market leaders in consumer value plans with nearly $6 million high deductible or consumer incentive plans in force.
We are leaders in consumer transparency tools with innovative mobile applications that enable effective use of information specific to each consumer.
We're further along in value-based care provider contracting than any other company and our pace is accelerating with more than $50 billion in accountable care performance contracts expected by 2017 if not sooner.
These programs offer varying levels of integration with care providers depending on their ability to affect health outcomes and assume financial risk.
Year-by-year these programs are helping transform how health care is delivered paid for and rewarded.
This quarter UnitedHealthcare's organic growth was led by the initiation of services for TRICARE in the West region for 2.9 million members in the military and their families.
This is the first time this contract has moved to a new service provider in more than 15 years and we encountered challenges as we engaged in this complex and massive transition.
We have learned from these initial challenges and regret any disruption this may have caused to men and women we are privileged to serve and we're deeply grateful for the collaborative working relationship with the Department of Defense the TRICARE Management Activity the TRICARE Regional Office West and the surgeon generals of the respective services the military treatment facilities and their fine leaders.
Having quickly advanced from these initial challenges we remain committed to consistent excellent service and the value of innovation in going forward for these programs.
UnitedHealthcare's Employer &amp; Individual business added a net 235 000 people year-to-date and is performing strongly across-the-board.
Growth continues to be strong across the government benefit markets as well.
Through the first half of the year UnitedHealthcare remains the largest and once again fastest-growing Medicare Advantage participant.
And Part D and Medicare Supplement both continued to perform strongly.
Medicare Advantage products have grown to serve 355 000 more people through the first 6 months and our full array of Medicare product offerings has grown to serve over 1 million more seniors this year.
Medicaid growth stands at 110 000 people through the first 6 months despite a divestiture impacting 60 000 people earlier this year.
Care for chronic and complex populations remains a distinctive capability for this business and a major forward growth driver with recent awards to serve long-term care and dual-eligible beneficiaries in Arizona Florida New Mexico New York Ohio and Washington State.
For the second quarter UnitedHealthcare generated operating earnings of $1.9 billion with solid contributions from all businesses.
The commercial medical care ratio improved 10 basis points year-over-year.
We are performing slightly better on outpatient costs despite the continued migration of clinical services from inpatient settings.
We continue to experience lower hospital inpatient usage as we expected and inpatient costs are in line with our projections.
Overall 2013 full year commercial cost trends are tracking in line with our initial projections of 5% to 6% with unit prices remaining a core driver of increases.
UnitedHealthcare's results include Amil which is now 90% owned.
With Amil our international business has grown to serve 260 000 more consumers in the first half of the year remain solidly ahead of its growth and financial plans for the year and is well-positioned to continued growth and market share gains driven by its distinctive market offerings and clinical engagement model.
We continue to be gratified by the growing response to Optum's market-leading offerings and capabilities.
Each of Optum's businesses posted double-digit top line gains.
And overall Optum revenue rose 21% over last year.
Operating margin expanded 170 basis points to 6.1% despite the increasing mix of pharmacy services revenues.
As of today we are more than halfway through our pharmacy migration.
And since January 1 OptumRx serves a total of about 8 million new consumers including these migrations and new business.
For the first 6 months of the year total Optum operating earnings rose 80% to just over $1 billion.
Optum's strong first half 2013 performance is proving that the broader health system and its constituencies create a natural end market for services a market we have sized at more than $500 billion annually.
Historically this market has been fragmented and served primarily by smaller single-point solutions.
We see the opportunity to bring together the services and capabilities we offer and provide broader more integrated solutions to larger more diverse clients while continuing to deliver even more effective stand-alone products and services to our traditional customer base.
We are focusing our investments on roughly 10 product families and freeing up resources through this more disciplined focus and the related productivity gain to fund further development and innovation on behalf of the clients and consumers we serve.
These actions are driving stronger and more consistent margin performance across all Optum's businesses.
The collective performance of our diverse UnitedHealthcare and Optum businesses ultimately comes through in UnitedHealth Group's strong overall results.
As we indicated earlier in our commentary UnitedHealth Group consolidated revenues grew 11.5% and net earnings grew 10% to $1.40 per share in the second quarter.
We expect full year 2013 net earnings in the tighter range of $5.35 to $5.50 per share.
Our second half earnings performance will benefit from the timing of Part D earnings and contributions and Optum's continued performance gains.
Our balance sheet is strong and our cash flows from operations are expected in the range of $7.2 billion to $7.6 billion this year.
We already targeted returning up to $4 billion of that to shareholders and our recent dividend increase now puts us in an annual dividend payment pace of more than $1 billion.
Looking forward our outlook remains consistent strongly positive in the long term with familiar near-term challenges coming in 2014 and 2015 as we indicated last quarter.
We expect pressure on the pace of revenue growth next year given both rate and membership pressures in Medicare Advantage.
We see further business and product integration advances further medical affordability gains and intense focus on driving lower operating costs to improve and sustain our competitive positions serving key health benefit markets and continuing strong cash flows.
The next phases of the Affordable Care Act should bring growth and expansion in the Medicaid business as well as to Optum and some meaningful financial challenges as well.
For instance on the Medicare side the challenge is intensified meaningfully and include nondeductible taxes combined with the continued significant underfunding of Medicare Advantage.
We remain committed to Medicare Advantage as the most valuable and fastest-growing Medicare benefit offering available to American seniors.
By 2016 Medicare Advantage will in effect be reimbursed at parity with original Fee-for-Service Medicare.
And at the same time it will continue to deliver better benefits at lower costs because of effective medical cost management and far better consumer-focused services and technologies none of which are present in the current Medicare Fee-for-Service system.
2016 should represent a final baseline pivot for Medicare growth for years to come and America's demographic trends are compelling.
Well more than 3 million people will enter Medicare each year and UnitedHealth Group is uniquely positioned to emerge as the market leader.
These long-term growth trends informed our approach to our 2014 Medicare bids which will remain under review by CMS through the summer.
Our decisions for 2014 focus on balancing program sustainability margin protection and cash flow generation of our MA business measured on a long-term multi-year basis.
We are aggressively and consistently addressing the operating and marketing costs of our Medicare programs without compromising the exceptional support and services we offer to the seniors we are serving through these important benefits.
The depth of the underfunding of these benefits to seniors is causing us to exit certain market areas reduce the number of plan offerings and reduce benefits in the majority of the local markets we serve commensurate with our review of the competitive position and long-term sustainability of our services for each individual market.
We are shaping our networks to ensure we are delivering health care with local care provider partners who deliver high-quality care and provide a sustainably low medical cost structure and to increasingly share in the results of collaborative efforts to bring greater quality and consistency of care to seniors including the most elderly and those with chronic conditions.
These steps can be expected to moderate member growth in 2014 in contrast to our strong growth experience over the last few years.
We will engage our members further by increasing our use of in-home health reviews and in-home services.
Even with these actions we expect pressure on 2014 Medicare Advantage margins.
The severe underfunding of the MA program for 2014 combined with the ACA tax impact and continued sequestration effects are too significant a burden to ask seniors to bear alone and still expect this important franchise to remain attractive to them.
Beyond Medicare Advantage and some remaining unknowns focused around ACA implementation in the individual and small group markets we expect the general narrative of UnitedHealth Group's performance for 2014 to be largely the same as 2013.
Our commercial benefits international Medicaid and military businesses should all continue to perform well.
Optum will continue to grow strongly and contribute comparatively more of our overall performance as virtually every Optum business and product line is growing and performing well and is expected to continue on that path.
We will continue to be good stewards of shareholder capital continuing to balance investments across our businesses and returning more capital to shareholders in both dividends and share repurchase.
From 1999 through the end of 2013 we have returned more than $40 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase even as we have grown and enriched the capabilities the market positions the value and the forward potential of this enterprise.
We remain optimistic about our capacity to serve society and to create value for the people and customers we serve as well as for the health system at large.
And we look forward to an expanding discussion of our strategy growth and performance at our investor conference which this year will be on December 3 in New York.
As usual this morning we have a full complement of leaders here and would ask the operator to open the call to our questions.
Only one per speaker please.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Matt Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just ask a little bit more about Medicare Advantage.
You made a comment if I heard it correctly about final baseline EBIT in 2016 as a base for growth once we're fully at parity.
Did I hear that correctly? And do you -- are you implying that EBIT is -- in Medicare Advantage is down from -- on a downward slope in '14 and '15 and then normalizing in '16 and growing from there? Yes well I'm glad you asked the question because I don't think that if it went out that way that's not what our intent was.
Basically continued funding pressures some of them mechanical the impact of the ACA and so forth will continue basically to get the funding mechanisms for Medicare Advantage to be at parity with Fee-for-Service.
Once that funding is leveled at that basis the programs are thought to then be neutral to each other from that perspective.
And therefore one could expect given the strong performance of the Medicare Advantage program that the growth could even accelerate from that point because you've got this significant demographic trend.
You have a very attractive program and the Medicare Advantage program will still have meaningful advantages in terms of benefits medical management capacities consumer engagement and relationship capacities that the Fee-for-Service system simply doesn't have right now.
So that's why I think our outlook on Medicare Advantage in the long term is so positive because in essence we have to navigate through these next couple of years where some of the mechanical funding actions will take place.
But even in those periods and those have been in my view in effect Medicare Advantage has continued as a broad national program to prosper and grow.
So I don't know how it will play out in 2014 and '15 as these elements play in on the funding -- to get funding in essence to neutrality.
But from 2016 forward that neutrality should then baseline this program and it will be Medicare Advantage with its I think compelling advantages compared to the Fee-for-Service system.
And we think the prospects for growth after that are quite compelling.
That's really what we tried to get across.
Research Division</strong> Yes that makes sense.
You also characterized in terms of next year that the impact would be to moderate member growth for 2014.
Do you imply by that that you do expect growth but it's just at a slower rate? Well we really didn't comment on that direction.
What we were intending to say is actions that we are taking to make sure that program is competitive and viable in as many markets as we can possibly continue to advance in.
So along those lines we outlined a series of steps that we're taking that maybe Jack Larsen wants to count on that.
But again we are focused on operating that program to its maximum potential in serving as many American seniors as we can through that program and making sure that it continues to perform in terms of growth margin protection cash flow attributes et cetera and to maximize the performance of the program recognizing the funding pressure that's on and recognizing that there might be limitations to how much seniors can actually bear the underfunding actions that are being taken with respect to the program.
Jack? Thanks Steve.
I would just add maybe a bit of an exclamation point on some of the changes that we're contemplating for our business next year and I think Steve went through them well.
We're looking at benefits.
We're going to be adjusting our -- planning some market withdrawals I think at a more modest end perhaps 5% or so with most of those members having an opportunity to enroll in another UnitedHealthcare plan.
We'll be narrowing our networks consistent with achieving better cost better outcomes and better management of our stores [ph].
And Matt we haven't really seen how our competitors are taking to all these too.
So I would say at this distance I think the only thing we can really say is that our performance at the membership growth line is likely to be more moderate compared to the last couple 2 or 3 years where we have grown very well.
And we'll go next to Justin Lake with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> First just wanted to check and see if there's any updated view you can share with us on 2014 EPS growth overall.
Well Justin we thought that question might come up.
We don't really comment on next year's guidance in the current midyear quarter.
I would say that with that said earnings growth is clearly our focus for 2014 and we are intense about that.
But we have to recognize that there is a great deal in front of us to achieve that.
As we just mentioned certainly strengthening Medicare Advantage given the significant 2014 funding shortfall and the steps we need to take to make sure that program continues to be vital is on the front of the list of that.
There's also ongoing work in the commercial markets with pressures on our own individual business the continued market migration to lower price point insurance products and fee-based conversions.
And those are all occurring kind of in the backdrop of a normal competitive dynamics intention.
We remain respectful of medical cost trends despite the success in keeping trends in check and particularly given the measured economic recovery.
We need to make continued investments in Optum in the emerging categories of private exchanges Medicare risk and revenue cycle house calls ever larger and longer-term care provider relationships Optum cloud products and in general we are committed to continuing to fund ongoing innovation and adoption.
And then last we want to think about headwinds.
Investment income we'll see probably short-term pressure as current portfolios actually turn over and transition from kind of capital gain realization mode into higher-yielding portfolios for the longer term.
So with that series of headwinds in front of us experience has taught us to be somewhat cautious and to be sure we consider and respond to these headwinds before we offer a sense of 2014.
So we are not prepared to do that but I would say we are intensely focused on solid earnings growth for 2014.
But we have to work our way through that as we stand really in the mid-year of '13.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my actual question was more of just a follow-up on Medicare Advantage.
Just to make sure I'm clear on what you've laid out here is you felt like 2014 and '15 are looking like a -- obviously you're going to be under pressure.
But by the end of 2015 going into '16 do you expect that '16 growth to reaccelerate and you feel like you'll still after all this pressure given what you're doing from a cost perspective and managing you're going to have -- and you feel like the benefits that you still have left out there for seniors after these costs will still be enticing and you expect growth to be in line with what you've seen over the last couple of years and potentially even accelerate? Was that a right -- was that the correct takeaway? I think you generally have it correct.
I think you may have a more precise notion of it than we would having to operate the program.
So I can't tell you that on January 1 2016 that there will be some kind of a light will go on et cetera.
But you have exactly the direction of our thinking on this program correctly.
That as we navigate through the next couple of years and the pressures that I think are well acknowledged on the program we intend to operate it in a -- in such a way that we are maintaining the vitality of that program protecting its margins maintaining the vitality of its benefits and its distinctions to consumers to seniors that need these programs and that we think that as you reach that point of neutrality which is about 2016 that the growth dynamics of that should accelerate yes.
Research Division</strong> And so do you see the program will be bigger than it is today or not -- or smaller than it is given the -- given what's facing you when you get to 2016? And that's it for me.
That's the third installment of your single question.
Obviously Justin from that discussion we expect in the long term that the needs of the American seniors and what the values we can bring to the Medicare program suggest that is a very strong long-term growth platform.
And we'll go next to Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on Medicare Advantage again and make sure.
I understand what you're talking about in terms of reimbursement and the pressures in '14 and '15.
But when we think about the business near term particularly fourth quarter this year and how you market to seniors will you take your foot off the accelerator somewhat in terms of marketing or do you think you have to accelerate the spending this year to maintain what you have and potentially grow? And just if you could give us any context on how the suspending might change year-to-year that would be helpful.
Yes I might offer -- take it at my level that how we're going to approach and deploy resources to the market from a marketing point of view at this point in time is really a little I would say a level of competitive intimacy that I'd rather not share.
I would say that our commentary was more along the lines of the fact that we are going to be shaping networks to be more focused to really focus on the high-performance assets as it relates to seniors that the benefit reductions that are fairly broad based those are the elements that I think will play into more conservative growth prospects for '14.
I think that getting into what our marketing plan is might be a little bit more than we would like to get into this morning.
And we'll go next to A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll switch gears a little bit.
There's been some developments obviously around the ACA since we last had you guys on the conference call the employer mandate delays some documentation delays and then we've also gotten some information on the exchanges in some states.
I know you said you'd be opportunistic particularly around the exchanges.
Can you comment about A does any of those developments that have occurred in the last few months change your perspective on those opportunities that are available to you maybe looking out next year and beyond for the ACA? I think I'll have Gail and Jeff Alter kind of comment on that.
I would just say again like to calibrate the perspective we're bringing to it.
Long term we're positive with respect to those channels as they form and as they became areas where we think we can participate and add value.
The near-term dynamics are more challenging for us and maybe that's specific to our particular profile of business.
So near term we have tended to be more cautious with respect to those and I think generally the elements that have been occurring reinforce those tendencies.
Good morning.
It's Gail Boudreaux.
I think Steve hit on the core principles.
We've been I think modest in our participation in the exchanges.
But I think the biggest story quite frankly is there is significant change going on across the overall commercial markets.
So as we think about our business we're focused both inside and outside of the exchange around affordable benefit offerings for our consumers.
So what we're talking about in terms of our network and our intentional integration of product clinical and network strategies is really core to both what we're doing inside and out of the exchange.
We're participating in about a dozen exchanges as you can see from what's been publicly disclosed.
And quite frankly at this stage of the game we've kept a very disciplined process around that.
We think that there is a huge opportunity over the long term and we're going to participate to learn in those exchanges.
In terms of what's happened on the overall reform implementation at this stage we're preparing our business.
And as I said much of what we're doing we're doing for both inside and outside of the exchange because we think affordability and consumer engagement are probably the most critical pieces.
We'll go next to Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to understand a little better this year's guidance.
You guys reported a quarter which beat at least consensus numbers by $0.15.
But it looks like you're only raising guidance by $0.05 at the mid-point.
So wanted to understand a little bit how you thought about guidance.
Is there anything that you thought of in the back half of the year that might be a headwind that maybe you weren't anticipating before that maybe the market wasn't anticipating? I don't think so and I might have Dave comment on that.
But in essence we tend to operate within a range and feel comfortable in that range.
I think excessive precision here is -- time has taught us to be careful about that and to in essence be prudent with respect to the guidance that's offered.
I would say that the performance of the business has been strong through the first half and while there is -- the orientation of the business was more challenging to the second half we are pretty much on course and had -- saw no reason to do anything other than tighten again the range of guidance.
Right.
So Kevin it's David.
If you kind of parse through this the range of $5.35 to $5.50 per share suggests that the second half of the year will not only be stronger than the first half of this year but also stronger than the comparative half year in 2012.
And as we kind of commented on in the first quarter that's largely due to the change in the seasonal pattern of Part D revenue and profit recognition.
While -- Steve had it right there's very modest pressure additional pressure on the back half of the year I think we've already pointed some of these out.
But just to keep in mind obviously the last half of the year has 2 quarters of the sequestration impact versus the first half of the year we're only having one as an example.
And then of course as you also see we have an uptick in a run rate of our growth patterns in the business as well.
So that requires some investment not only in terms of selling but also in terms of implementation.
And then Steve did mention the near-term impact on the higher interest rates than the impact that they have had on our ability to recognize the extensive capital gains that we have in the past.
And then the last thing I'd just point out is our tax rate will return to 36.75% level for Qs 3 and 4 which will comparatively impact earnings in the last half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess except for maybe higher interest rates none of those sound necessarily new like new headwinds per se? No I was just trying to give you some...
No I just think we're just trying to establish a prudent balanced I think consistent with what our posture has been for the last several years.
And the businesses continue to perform well and Optum in particular is having a very very strong year.
But we didn't really see a need to change the guidance other than to tighten the range given the fact we only have a half year left.
And we'll go next to Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just taking a look at the SG&amp;A changes.
It came a little bit higher than what we were looking at.
I think you were up 20 basis points.
The ratio was up 20 bps in the first quarter and now up 90 in the second quarter and I see the TRICARE piece of it.
But I'm just curious what's driving that? Was there sort of -- was there any discretionary spending any acceleration of planned spending that you thought would be coming? And maybe within that if you could just give us a baseline to start with the TRICARE revenue contribution that'd be helpful.
Sure.
Dave you want to respond to that? Sure.
So the operating cost ratio is up 90 basis points year-over-year.
It was very much in line with our expectations for this quarter.
We mentioned in the script that there are several things contributing to that ratio predominantly related to business mix changes.
As you know we had one large funding conversion from risk to fee in the first quarter.
That obviously will continue to impact us throughout the year.
We've also added Amil which has a higher SG&amp;A ratio.
And obviously we didn't have Amil in the second quarter last year.
TRICARE of course fee-based contract as well as continuing costs of implementation through the second quarter again not in place last year.
And of course Optum is growing very quickly and of course most of that business is service-oriented and fee-based as well.
The only thing I'd point out beyond that which is all in the script really is there's continued cost of implementation for CPCA [ph] ICD-10 the TRICARE implementation and the PBM migration.
Those are all items that are inside our numbers for the second quarter and those for the most part associated with improved growth prospects for the business going forward.
So we're pleased to make those investments.
The last thing I'll just say is that as indicated in the script is that obviously all these things have offset what this management team has done over the past several years.
But in particular in the last year around cost containment efforts and done a very nice job advancing the productivity of the business and really muting the impact of this mix shift on this operating cost ratio.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
I was looking Dave more just 1Q increase versus 2Q increase.
It looks like there was just sort of a pickup in the second quarter.
I understand a lot of the implementation costs and the funding conversion Amil and the implementation.
I know a lot of that was impacting first quarter as well.
So was just curious what caused the 70 basis point increase and sort of the year-over-year in 2Q and trying to figure out if TRICARE was big enough to do that and my guess is that fee-based business probably wasn't big enough to cause that change.
Well I don't think if there's anything from our perspective that's out of line in there.
I think it is the continued progression in mix.
I think Optum continues to be a larger overall factor.
And I'm not sure everybody can actually calculate the impact of that but I think that is probably the largest contributing factor that the business -- that's all operating expenses and growing at a very solid rate.
So I think it is as we have analyzed it is overwhelmingly mixed even the items in terms of regulatory and so forth so basically in these numbers year-over-year and in them sequentially.
So there is nothing in that that we see out of line or outside our expectations or plans for the year other than probably an even higher level of performance on the part of our services business which includes not just Optum but also the fee -- the significant growth and continued fee-based businesses across UnitedHealthcare.
That's where all their commercial growth has been.
Josh it's John Penshorn.
Last November we said 15.9% plus or minus 30 basis points.
That range we affirm and that accommodates the accelerated growth in fee-based services Steve referred to.
We'll go next to Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you go over for us how OptumRx growth is helping the firm exactly? And we can see it on OptumRx but some of the improvement bleeds over into the commercial side of the business.
What portion is on the commercial side of the business and what portion is on in OptumRx itself? And then can you talk about the growth path of Optum Rx in 2014 and 2015? Sure.
I'll have Dirk respond to that.
I mean it is perfectly in line with the OptumRx's agenda on synchronization and the impact it has extending to the total medicals costs.
So Dirk you want to...
Yes I think well let's start up by talking about the business.
I think if you look our RFP volume is up a bit year-over-year.
And if you look at what we see we don't see a lot of the business changing hands across the PBM space.
But what we do see we're actually getting a little more than our fair share and our retention has been pretty good.
So if you look at what we try to do we try to again manage total health outcomes as well as our -- as well as improving the cost of care.
And we do that as it was with our synchronization approach we bring all the data together and optimize the overall spend.
So we think that in addition to our specialty offering in the marketplace is resonating very well.
So that bleeds to performance for UnitedHealthcare and its businesses and obviously for our government programs.
So it does we think make us distinctive with respect to medical cost trends with respect to that section of medical cost drugs as well as a growing and vital and more diversified PBM business that we think the potential once this migration is fully digested and we can focus our full attentions to the external marketplace I think the growth prospects of that can be quite impressive.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you quantify for us in any way how much of the improving MLR on the commercial side comes from bringing the Optum business in house? I don't -- I think that we would be -- it would be too much of back-of-the-envelope kind of response.
So we'll take that off-line and we'll kind of bring that kind of thing perhaps back in the next in our next quarter.
We'll comment specifically on the impact of that.
I just don't want to shoot from the hip on something like that.
So I think it's a very good question and I think we'll take it that way if that's okay with you.
And we'll go next to Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> There is obviously a robust conversation going on with parties in D.C.
around the sufficiency of 2014 Medicare rate and how that may influence 2015 budgets and rates.
Can you give us a read on what you see as the current perception in D.C.
of the adequacy of 2014 rate that initially it seems to like debut 2014 as more positive than you view it.
So I wanted to see if the perception in D.C.
has changed throughout your discussions with them.
And if you could give us a read on the level of their receptivity compared to previous years to the information you're presenting on where rates should be going forward.
That is a -- that would be a challenging kind of conversation to have in a forum like this.
I would say this in a very constructive way that access to the administration CMS administration HHS and so forth has been -- has always been open and fair and constructive dialogue and conversation.
They obviously pursue a variety of protocols in establishing the rate process.
It is a complicated process.
It's multi-faceted.
So it's not really possible to have a single conversation about elements such as that.
I think our positions with respect to the funding patterns on Medicare Advantage are well articulated and supported.
And there is an open dialogue about that and that dialogue is occurring in essence all year long.
So I do think it's an environment where the parties are working together.
I think there is a recognition of the role that Medicare Advantage plays in the marketplace.
And I would describe the conversations as very professional and productive.
And I think we would have to leave it at that.
It is not what I would characterize as some kind of contentious environment at all.
These are extraordinarily professional people in the administration that are trying to administer these programs in accordance with the protocols that have been established into the best of their capacities.
And we are having an ongoing business dialogue with them on this subject.
So I think that's all we can really comment.
And that happens in states as well in Medicaid.
It's just the nature of the market.
And we'll go next to Ralph Giacobbe with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First just wanted to make sure I heard correct that you're planning on exiting 5% of MA markets next year.
And if possible if that's correct can you give us a sense of what percentage of MA enrollment that represents today? And then second separately just wondering has the delay in employer mandate changed or would you expect it to change discussion at all with employers? I guess it'd be helpful just to get a sense of how your discussions are going with employers.
Is there more pushback? Is there confusion? Is there concern et cetera? I'm just trying to get a broad sense of the appetite to make changes due to ACA near term.
Sure.
Let's take Medicare first.
Hey Ralph.
Jack Larsen.
So the 5% does relate to our membership.
And I really wouldn't call them market excess -- market exits as much as planned withdrawals.
So about 150 000 or so of our members will be impacted by member withdrawals.
But in turn about 80-plus percent of those members will have access to another UnitedHealthcare MA product.
Ralph this is Gail Boudreaux.
There are a number of questions I think embedded around the employer mandate.
So let me address that one first and if I get to your issues...
In terms of first the delay of the employer mandate we don't really think that that's going to have a significant impact.
Employers who currently offer insurance are going to continue to do that and that's been the course of our discussions.
In terms of how our discussions are going with employers there is a lot of change coming to that marketplace and the intense focus is around affordability as I said earlier not just on the exchanges but across all of our customers.
They're looking at value-based plan designs getting consumers much more engaged how they integrate clinical programs.
So I'd say the real focus is around affordability of coverage and improving consumer engagement and making sure they have real value for the dollars they spend.
We'll go next to Sheryl Skolnick with CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> The MA discussion is remarkably more bullish than I thought it would be and maybe that's why your stock is trading up so nicely because it would suggest that 2014 may not be as challenged a year as one might have thought.
So I guess the first question is is that -- the first part of the question -- is that the correct interpretation that now that you've gone through all this you've reaffirmed your commitment to the program long term post-2016 which I think was the point of that discussion that you're able to find ways to mitigate the impact on both the beneficiary and the company of what is a dramatic underfunding of MA? And then the second question I have relates to capital deployment.
Given that discussion about MA can you either -- give us a sense of where you see the most attractive segments of your market or new opportunities be they international or existing opportunities like Optum like commercial et cetera where you think are the highest best use of the capital that you're not already returning to shareholders.
Sure.
First of all very good observation which I'd like to make sure we bring in-line.
I think our view in terms of Medicare Advantage is really not different than we had indicated last quarter.
We believe that program is severely underfunded for 2014.
The comments that we're making if you parse them are that we are exiting certain markets we're exiting certain plans we're narrowing our networks across virtually all the markets we are taking benefits down across all the markets.
So those are not good things for American seniors who engage on these benefits.
And those elements will clearly put pressure on both top line for 2014 on Medicare Advantage an important program for us and on the margins of that program.
So to level set on that basis that's I think what we said clearly.
And we will work through those things.
And we are absolutely intense on this program because we think it has a meaningful long-term value to American seniors and to basically the viability of the Medicare program in total going forward because it brings in market dynamics around the managing medical costs around engaging consumers around holding care providers accountable elements such as that.
That's a long -- that's placed to our competencies.
It should be a strong long-term market so long as the program is funded appropriately.
If it is not funded appropriately then that -- those market dynamics will change.
So I don't think anything has changed about that.
We have just worked one more quarter through the tactics of how we will have to navigate through 2014.
So to level set that we are -- we see pressure in '14 and '15 on Medicare Advantage as a product.
We're working through those.
The program in our view has not been funded strongly in the past and '14 was very significant.
It's a 750 basis point delta and what we see the cost of that program to be.
In terms of allocating capital we have a diversified model.
And that strategy and diversification is a conscious one with the notion of allocating capital opportunistically across the spectrum of that diversified model.
We see compelling opportunities and have in the Optum business.
There are opportunities that will emerge we think in the benefits businesses.
And we think that they will emerge over time as more pressure is brought into the overall health benefits marketplace.
And we look for opportunities where we can deploy our 3 competencies around local care market engagement around information and around enabling technology in international settings.
We found Brazil to be a compelling opportunity for that particularly on our Optum services side.
There's probably more market opportunities for us on the international side and we'll continue to look for benefits.
But that is going to be probably more opportunistic because we don't see as many of those other than in Optum.
I think Optum has a significant opportunity on the international side.
We parse our investments based upon cost of capital return thresholds along those lines and recognize our responsibilities in terms of returning capital pursuant to dividends and share repurchase.
So that's kind of the perspective and that really hasn't changed at all.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So if I could just follow up then.
If I'm going to interpret your 2014 comments I think what I would say is beyond the challenges provided by MA you see your capital deployment and all the other expertise that you bring to the table as providing the kind of balance perhaps to 2014 offsetting some of the negatives in MA would be the continued pace that you see in the rest of the businesses? And that the challenge in predicting 2014 for us is to balance the negative of the MA against the positives of the other business.
The street is interpreting I think your comments as meaning flat 2014.
And I'm trying to from my perspective I think you said balance one against the other but you didn't commit to flat.
Is that correct? Yes we have committed to no position on 2014.
I think beyond that that what you're laying out is broadly the way I would -- broadly correct.
And that is we are positive about the other aspects of our business and our capabilities and we're applying them intensively to the pressure that is being put on the Medicare Advantage program that are still working through that.
So we haven't declared on 2014.
We are focused on growing earnings in 2014 and growing this business that is our focus and our intensity every year.
We have a lot to offer in terms of our diversified business model.
And when we feel we have worked through this to the point where we can responsibly offer some direction to the marketplace we will do that.
But I think generally you have the framework of it correct.
We'll go next to Ana Gupte with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> So a lot of questions on 2014.
I'm just trying to get a little more clarity on commercial and Medicare in 2013 as that's the baseline for all the headwinds that you will experience in '14.
So on the Medicare side in the first quarter you had quite a bit of deterioration in your x commercial medical loss ratio.
You brought up sequestration enhanced Part D and some seasonal patterns of first quarter pressure and so on.
It seems to have eased up in 2Q.
I'm just trying to understand if it's because of Part D or you've actually done something to improve your base Medicare Advantage business and the potential margin deterioration that you've been experiencing I think in 1Q? Or is it prior period reserves or Amil or something else? I think we'll have Dan comment on it.
Clearly Part D is a factor in it.
But I think it's not the only one.
So Dan? Sure.
This is Dan.
You have -- you had a lot in there.
To Steve's point absolutely the biggest difference as you look sequentially first quarter second both on a consolidated basis and in government programs and Medicare obviously is the Part D timing.
In the first quarter as you look year-over-year it actually increased the loss ratio.
And as you look at the second quarter it actually decreased the loss ratio on a year-over-year basis.
So that's the biggest swing item.
But I'd also tell you inside of Medicare that we also have more favorable development than the first quarter and on a year-over-year basis and that's a little more concentrated in our Medicare business.
And from the first to the second quarter in Medicare we're seeing a little bit better performance on our new growth in Medicare.
So those are some of the things that are influencing it with Part D being the most pronounced.
LLC</strong> So your view of your own base Medicare business and if you can split out Medicare Advantage and Part D do you expect deterioration from 2012 or not for the full year '13? On the full year we expect our Medicare Advantage loss ratio to go up.
Obviously we have the significant reimbursement challenges as well as sequestration.
And then working against that is our focus on clinical management and so forth.
So -- but yes in aggregate we expect our Medicare Advantage loss ratio to increase on the full year.
As you look at Part D our performance is strong there.
On the full year our earnings will be up and they're up in large part due to the significant volume growth that we had in Part D.
And obviously the quarter-to-quarter progression is different.
But in aggregate on the year Part D earnings are going to be up.
LLC</strong> That's helpful.
Then just the follow-up on the commercial side.
You had a little bit of margin expansion in 1Q.
You had cited the loss of a big fully insured very high MLR count at the time.
You're seeing a little bit of margin expansion in the second quarter.
Your days and claims table have gone up by 1 day.
All of you are on the hook for this tax for next year or so.
Should we expect that either your reserves will strengthen or that your commercial underwriting spread gets better through 3 and 4Q as you build up for that tax burden? On the commercial side yes we had a decline in our loss ratio again this quarter on a year-over-year basis.
We are down 10 basis points.
A big portion of that is obviously the large case funding conversion that we had at the beginning of the year.
And that's being offset by the competitive market environment.
We guided at Investor Day to a more than 1 percentage point increase in our full year commercial loss ratio.
We've adjusted for that large funding conversion.
And we still expect at the mid-point about a 60 basis point increase in our commercial loss ratio on the full year.
So full year commercial loss ratio guidance still in that 81.2% plus or minus 50 basis points.
I think the question is really a baseline one.
The commercial baseline for the current year is very solid very strong.
And it will then run into the challenges that you point out that everybody will run into in the marketplace in '14 and '15.
We'll go next to Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Can you roughly quantify the margin compression that you're expecting to see in Medicare Advantage next year? So roughly are we talking 50 to 100 basis points or something bigger than that? Yes well first of all we don't really get into margin at that level in the first place.
And I think if I could do that at this point in time we would have more to say about 2014.
So that's what we're working through right now.
And we have to work through them on a real basis through the specific markets.
So I really can't offer guidance with -- at that level of precision the mid-year of the current year.
Research Division</strong> Yes maybe ask it in a different way.
If the headwind that you're talking about is 750 basis points you talked about sort of the seniors' ability to handle adjustments to that what would you view as being a reasonable amount that a senior could handle in terms of benefit design changes in a given year? I have no basis to really speculate around that.
Let me go back to a couple of things.
If you think about it that spread that you're focusing on we're attacking by in part taking benefits down in a way that maintains the value and viability of the program.
And it is -- it runs a spectrum across markets.
So it's not like a universal thing.
This is done at a relatively precise level market-by-market.
Network shaping is also that.
We have historically sponsored a very broad very open access kind of market for our Medicare Advantage.
We will be forced to narrow that.
We are focused potentially on operating costs across-the-board.
So those are the elements that we're really playing.
And then obviously we are as I said we're operating in a way to maintain the long-term viability of the program.
But my second point in there was protecting margins.
The sustainability of the program has to be that it is one that returns capital.
So we are protecting the margins of that program.
And that is a market-by-market proposition relative to our set of assets in the marketplace as well as the way the program is being administered by its sponsor in those markets.
It's a complicated proposition but I can assure you we are focused on closing as much of that gap as possible.
And seniors are clearly going to participate in it pursue the benefit reductions narrower access.
So none of these things the underfunding of the program is not a good thing for American seniors who benefit from these programs.
But we are trying to navigate that in the best way possible to preserve these programs [indiscernible] long term because we think it has compelling long-term growth aspects and value to the administration in terms of what it can do for Medicare.
We'll go next to Christine Arnold with Cowan.
LLC Research Division</strong> Optum seems to be running generally ahead of expectations.
Is there any change to the long term Optum objectives that you outlined at Investor Day? And you talked about international being a substantial opportunity.
Where else do you see good opportunities in Optum? Larry you want to comment? Christine this is Larry Renfro.
And I think you know that we put together a what I'll call a multi-year business plan back about 18 months ago.
We call that One Optum.
And when we did that we wanted to make Optum a more potent solutions organization and we wanted to really position ourselves for the future.
And at the same time we made some financial commitments to you guys on the ROIC being 15% by 2015 a 6% operating margin by 2015 as well as doubling our operating profits so -- of 2011.
So those goals that we set at that point in time we're kind of marching down the road.
We are hitting those pretty well and meeting expectations and sometimes actually doing better.
The initiatives around them are pretty much around simplification reengineering business integration.
Really the whole business alignment and we talked a little bit about the PBM.
And in 2013 we have now started to pivot toward growth.
And part of the growth initiative and I forget the part of your question is that we're trying to really have deeper what I'd call larger as well as significant relationships with our customers.
And that's actually working fairly well for us right now as well.
The other part of growth as we've been talking about this today comes from what I'll call new opportunities that surround us around this talk about Medicare rates and the pressure that's going on in the industry.
So what all that does for us is cause us to really look for the future and we have to put certain development dollars as well as innovation dollars in to make all this work.
I would say that international would fall into that same category in terms of innovation and development.
As we work toward doing a lot of these programs that we are doing today in the United States we'll be putting them into Brazil.
So we're confident that we have planned investments.
We're balancing those investments with the growth as well as cost management.
But at this point in time we would pretty much stand by the overall multi-year plan in terms of our guidance to meet or exceed the high end of the range.
So thank you all.
Once again thank you for your interest in UnitedHealth Group today.
We have had a very solid quarter and a strong year-to-date both for UnitedHealthcare and Optum and both continue to grow.
Our performance trends are positive.
I think it reflects in part the value of our diversified business approach and we remain intensely focused on the remainder of 2013 and on 2014 in the long-term success of the enterprise.
So thank you for joining us.
Good morning.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here is some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectation.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
This call will also reference non-GAAP amounts.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP to GAAP amounts is available on the Financial Reports &amp; SEC Filings section of the company's Investors page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated October 17 2013 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
This morning we will review our third quarter results and update you on our view of market trends and developments as we approach 2014.
In the third quarter UnitedHealth Group earned $1.53 per share on revenues of $30.6 billion.
Revenues grew 12% year-over-year with continued diversification across businesses and product types.
Cash flows from operations were strong at $3.4 billion more than 2x our net earnings for the quarter.
The consistency of our efforts and results is guided by a focus on serving the distinct needs of all health system participants: those who receive deliver and who pay for care.
No other company is engaged so diversely across health care.
Our services all center around the same 3 competencies cultivated for nearly 2 decades: the organization and optimization of health resources at the local market level the application of data and the enabling use of advanced technology.
Over the long term this approach continues to produce distinguishing results: record growth from those who have experienced our products and services well-controlled medical and operating cost trends and improved affordability and access to health care.
The emergence of public exchanges private exchanges Medicaid expansions growing dual eligible and long-term care need accountable care experimentation rising consumerism and the confluence of these elements have the potential to create new opportunities for us to grow and serve in new ways.
We continue to adapt to the market's changing need.
We offer consumers and customers an unparalleled array of health products services and capabilities and we are steadily advancing along themes of consumer responsiveness simplicity and affordability.
Turning to the quarter.
Our 12% revenue growth solid earnings results and steady operating disciplines grow strong cash flows of $3.4 billion bringing year-to-date cash flow to nearly $6 billion.
As expected the third quarter operating margin of 8.6% decreased from last year primarily due to government underfunding of the Medicare Advantage program and nearly 40 basis points of impact from lower reserve development.
These were partially offset by strong margin expansion in Health Services at both UnitedHealthcare and Optum.
Operating costs were well controlled at 15.9% of revenue.
Our percentage operating costs are 20 basis points higher than the third quarter 2012 despite year-over-year services growth of 25% or more than twice the growth rate of health premiums.
That said we have intense efforts underway to continue to increase the overall level of productivity and realize cost savings across our businesses.
Our debt-to-total-capital ratio was comfortably under 35% at September 30 and we ended the quarter with $1.1 billion in available cash.
Year-to-date shareholder dividend payment increased nearly 30% to $777 million.
We have purchased about 37 million shares so far in 2013 at an average price just under $64 per share bringing our pure share count now under 1 billion shares.
Turning to business level results.
UnitedHealthcare earned $2 billion on revenues of $28.4 billion in the third quarter.
UnitedHealthcare's momentum continues as the fastest-growing health benefits company in the market.
It increased the number of people served by 24% nearly 9 million individuals over the past year.
This includes more than 2.9 million people in TRICARE and another 4.8 million people in Brazil both new markets for us.
Within our traditional domestic markets growth has also remained strong.
Over the last year we have grown to serve 1 million more people today in the employers individuals senior and public markets.
This growth is varied and diverse across geographies products and market segment.
UnitedHealthcare is achieving consistent results by aligning modern benefit design with strong consumer engagement empowerment tools programs and incentives.
These are further aligned to targeted clinical management and wellness programs that channel care delivery through a focused set of networks with proven performance capability and with progressively higher levels of care provider financial incentives for quality outcomes and patient satisfaction.
For many years we have used our commitment to and insight into local market communities to shape our capabilities to fit each unique market as a provider of health benefits.
These same local market insights and relationships play out in our accountable care strategy which continues to differentiate UnitedHealthcare.
We closed the quarter with more than $25 billion in annual medical spending driving a spectrum of first-generation care provider performance incentives.
Today the health care experience of more than 2 million people we serve are directly aligned end-to-end through the most progressive of these arrangements including full risk shared risk and bundled episodic care payment approaches.
We entered into several new ACO partnerships in the quarter including our first multi-entity ACO with Quality Health Solutions a collaborative of 4 hospital systems and the Medical College of Wisconsin all in the southeast corner of that state.
More importantly we are making significant gain-sharing payments to several of our ACO partners based on the actual outcomes they are achieving to improve quality and care effectiveness and efficiency for patients.
This includes Optum's care delivery network earning payments for its work to improve performance for both UnitedHealthcare and organizations outside UnitedHealth Group.
In the third quarter UnitedHealthcare growth was again led by senior market performance.
We added 100 000 seniors with Medicare Advantage or Medicare Supplement benefits and sold 95 000 additional Medicare Part D drug plans.
We expect to finish 2013 with market-leading growth momentum coming through these Medicare offerings.
We have already grown by 670 000 people in Part D through the first 9 months of the year.
While our overall Medicare star ratings for 2015 have advanced year-over-year we believe we can and must execute much better than these ratings reflect.
We are intensely focused on steady and significant improvement in this critical performance area.
In Medicaid UnitedHealthcare grew by 15 000 people in the quarter and was honored to be selected for new awards serving Florida and rural Texas which will begin over the course of 2014.
The number of consumers served through UnitedHealthcare Employer &amp; Individual grew by 30 000 in the quarter despite expected in-group attrition.
2013 will be the fourth consecutive year UnitedHealthcare grows commercial membership organically.
And UnitedHealthcare Military &amp; Veterans membership in TRICARE was well served but this transitional issue is now well in hand.
UnitedHealthcare International has added almost 400 000 people so far this year with particular strength in the large group market.
Our UnitedHealthcare International medical assistance and clinics business continues to grow and advance recently receiving new contracts to serve the global oil and gas industry in the Middle East Africa and now in the North Atlantic.
Optum's technology-enabled services again grew strongly in a market sized at over $500 billion.
Our growth potential is particularly compelling as we continue to develop broader more integrated long-term relationships with larger clients who are pursuing new approaches to the market.
Earlier this week we announced the formation of the Optum360 business with our partner Dignity Health.
Working collaboratively and applying advanced Optum technologies we expect to improve revenue cycle performance end-to-end from the perspectives of both patients and care providers across Dignity's 39 hospitals and 300 care centers in 21 states.
Through the Optum360 business we are together creating the next-generation performance organization dedicated to bringing these resources to serve a broad base of large health care systems across the U.S.
To that end we are engaged with other care provider systems and believe Optum360 will develop into a sizable and impactful business.
Earlier this week we announced a multiyear extension and expansion through 2020 of our new 15-year relationship with AARP.
Through this extension we will continue to advance the overall missions of AARP with the broadest offering of senior products and services around health and wellbeing.
Also this week consulting firm Mercer announced it was using both the Optum multi-carrier private exchange platform called myCustomHealth and UnitedHealthcare's dedicated exchange platform to serve benefit choice needs of retirees and larger employers.
And earlier this year we created Optum Labs to combine and analyze both clinical and administrative data from large patient populations.
Insights from Optum Labs' research will advance knowledge and understanding of every aspect of care delivery from care protocols to therapeutic agent performance and more.
We expect these research efforts to lead to new and better products and services and improved overall system performance.
The Mayo Clinic Health System is a founding partner of Optum Labs as is AARP.
And other important national relationships are also in various levels of engagement.
With these Optum Labs has the potential to effectively become the national research platform for health care data analytics.
These initiatives combined with several other important business relationships and awards this year are the results of our efforts to align Optum around 3 major growth drivers: modernizing health system infrastructure aligning and enabling the highest quality of both effective and efficient care delivery and engaging the consumer.
These drivers define the broad business opportunities emerging as health care evolves and support our optimism and confidence in Optum's sustained double-digit growth.
And Optum's operating performance was strong again this quarter.
Each business repeated double-digit revenue gain.
Overall revenues rose 33% year-over -- over last year to $9.6 billion led by the 41% increase at OptumRx.
Operating margin expanded 100 basis points to 6.6% despite the increasing mix of comparatively lower-margin pharmacy revenues.
As of today our OptumRx pharmacy migration is 96% complete.
More than 11 million consumers have transitioned and are now served by OptumRx.
Our team has successfully executed the largest-scale and most complex membership transition in the health care industry.
Optum's strong revenue growth combined with margin expansion has driven exceptional earnings performance.
Optum's earnings grew 54% year-over-year this quarter and 69% year-to-date.
Optum is now contributing nearly 1/4 of UnitedHealth Group's operating earnings up from 16% 1 year ago.
We believe Optum will achieve our 2015 margin target of 6% in 2013 2 years earlier than originally planned.
The combined and complementary performances of Optum and UnitedHealthcare produced very solid third quarter results as we discussed at the outset with quarterly revenues up $3.3 billion over last year driven by increasing diversification producing earnings of $1.53 per share with cash flows of $3.4 billion.
We're achieving our full year results against headwinds ranging from intense government reimbursement pressures including an unplanned $0.15 per share sequestration impact and $0.17 per share in lower reserve development as compared to the strong reserve development levels of last year.
And we're getting there while continuing to make significant investments in our businesses including the increased level of fourth quarter investment in OptumInsight.
All in we are tightening our outlook for 2013 net earnings to a range of $5.40 to $5.50 per share.
At the raised midpoint of $5.45 this would translate to a strong 15% year-over-year earnings growth targeted for the fourth quarter this year.
Our balance sheet strength continues to differentiate UnitedHealth Group.
In the past week both S&amp;P and Moody's affirmed our corporate debt ratings and upgraded their outlook.
We continue to project cash flows from operations in a range of $7.2 billion to $7.6 billion and expect to return $4 billion to shareholders through share repurchase and dividend.
Looking forward we expect our 2014 earnings outlook to be impacted by overall Medicare Advantage funding levels as well as the effects of a nondeductible insurer fee on Medicare as we indicated in our last earnings call.
The significant and continued level of underfunding cannot be fully offset in 2014 from the performance effects we expect from the balance of our health benefits market and we see limited potential for dramatic further improvement in overall medical cost trends recognizing how well medical costs have been controlled over 2012 and 2013.
We fully expect Optum to again grow and perform strongly and we are well along in far-reaching efforts to improve productivity and control operating costs across the entire enterprise.
And we will as always endeavor to use capital judiciously.
Given that overall landscape we expect our 2014 earnings outlook which we will introduce and discuss in detail at our December 3 investor conference will once again begin the year with a broad earnings range that will likely straddle to the upside and to the downside our current year performance outlook of $5.40 to $5.50 per share.
We will of course be focused on performing to the highest possible level.
2014 and 2015 represent periods we have long described as challenging in the near term followed by the potential for several years of growth and advancement once these markets changes are digested.
The history of market changes in the health care sector over the past 50 years bears that out.
Our own historical performance provides some context.
It is worth noting that today we generate more than $1.5 billion in operating earnings from businesses we were not even in at the start of 2006.
We have grown earnings per share at a 14% annual rate since the end of 2009 accompanied by strong cash flow growth while going through the most prolonged economic and employment downturn in nearly a century.
Over the last 10 years we quadrupled our market share and health benefits from a starting point of 3% yet today we are only 13% penetrated into the overall U.S.
population.
While we have the largest enterprise serving the Health Care Services market we estimate our penetration into that $0.5 trillion market at just 6%.
Today our businesses serving Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries are approaching parity with our 30-year-old commercial health benefit businesses.
Optum is ahead of our "15 by '15" commitment and moving rapidly to our goal of representing well more than 30% of our overall income contribution and growing at a strong and accelerating pace.
We are committed to thoughtful growth pursuing the international market where emerging economies and fully developed nations both recognize the need to meet the growing health care needs of their people and are looking to the private sector to play a key role.
And here in the U.S.
we have recently taken important steps for the adjacent primary care market focused on serving populations whose needs are high where we can make a positive difference to them and to their benefit sponsors one of the most fragmented yet influential of all sectors across the health care landscape.
We can only be certain of one thing that UnitedHealth Group will look meaningfully different 10 years from today.
We are committed to being a differentiating factor in a better health care system and to grow and productively use capital in the process.
We look forward to your questions today so we turn to the moderator.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question.
Just a follow-up on your 2014 commentary Steve.
I just want to make sure I was clear on that.
So it sounds like the UHC business will be down in earnings year-over-year with Medicare Advantage driving down.
Any color on how the commercial and Medicaid businesses will look? Yes.
Well we're going to kind of try to keep our -- this call is not the time when we get into the details of this.
We provide guidance at the investor conference and I really don't want to front run that process.
So I will leave it kind of in the context that we put it that when you look at the businesses in total pressure that's on the Medicare Advantage program from the funding pressures that we have talked about for some time and then look at the performance of the balance of the businesses each of whom have their challenges and their opportunities both we come out in a range that as I said straddles with both upside to where we are today as well as probably a downside starting point.
And that's largely where we think we'll probably position 2014 as we go in.
And we're going to try not to provide a great deal more detail than that other than the portfolio has that potential within it and that we are focused on a number of things that we think will drive towards the upper end of that performance.
But that execution remains to be done and so we will kind of keep it in that kind of context this morning and then we'll talk about it in much more detail when we get to the investor conference.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on Optum.
Can you give us some color on the Optum360 revenue opportunity post the Dignity announcement? And also on the PBM can you give us an update on the Medco integrations and how you're positioned heading into the '15 selling season? Sure.
I'll let Larry kick that off.
So Justin it's Larry.
I'm assuming you read the announcement about our arrangement with Dignity Health.
As we said earlier in the year we were going to try to establish what I would call a larger deeper more complex relationship with our clients and I would say that Optum360 is an example of that.
We won't go into the detail of contracts or we won't go into the detailed numbers but what I would say about that is that it is a multiyear multi-billion dollar contract and it is a next-generation RCM that we are starting with them that will -- candidly will simplify patient billing and -- as well as modernize health care administration.
So a nice win nice venture that we put together and more to come on that.
And I'll ask Dirk to handle the PBM.
Yes thanks Larry.
I guess what I would say is the PBM migration and the success has given the market confidence that we can compete.
It's given us a lot of scale to be able to purchase more effectively.
And I think candidly our synchronization as well as specialty value propositions are resonating well in the marketplace.
So my commentary on '15 is that ultimately we've -- not a lot has moved but what business has moved we've won more than our fair share.
So I think we're really well positioned for '15.
Next question please? And we'll try to keep it to one per.
That was a nice portfolio of questions on that one but we'll try to keep it to one each.
And our next question comes from A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll just ask you to flesh out a little more on your comments about the Medicare Advantage outlook.
Obviously you've now got some competitive information available.
Can you give us your assessment of the landscape moving into next year prospects for overall enrollment growth in that segment and maybe for the market overall if you have any thoughts on that? And anything you could say on the margin outlook on that? Sure.
I'll have Jack comment on that.
But I think as we look at the benefits we see that and our position as pretty positive.
Jack? Thanks A.J.
Good morning.
So in 2014 once again we are looking at a market opportunity that expands upwards of 3 million seniors or so many of whom who we think will be well positioned to select Medicare Advantage.
And I think in our planning this year we started where we start every year and that is with identifying the benefits that seniors value most while keeping the year-over-year total cost ranges to them as low as possible.
This year was obviously made far more difficult than prior years given the reductions in the effective rates that we received versus the expected medical cost trend.
So you have I'm sure no doubt seen some of the competitive plan offerings.
And while it's still very early in OEP I think today is the third day of selling I'd have to say that we're pleased.
We're pleased with where we positioned ourselves competitively in our key markets.
And we're pleased with some of the things that we are seeing in terms of the leading indicators coming from our field sales teams our web portals and the busyness of our call centers.
Now in terms of growth I think as Steve shared in his opening comments we had industry-leading growth in 2013 something we're very happy with.
I would say at this distance though when we come to you at the investor conference we will be positioning our growth as moderating off of the sort of blistering rate we've had this year.
And keep in mind that we're approaching 2014 with almost 150 000 people impacted by our plan withdrawal.
So I'm sure we'll have lots more to say about that at the investor conference in the next few weeks.
Our next question comes from David Windley with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> It's Dave Styblo in for Windley.
I had just a question on the private exchange and if you could talk a little bit more about your strategy there how you guys are approaching it and what sort of success you're having this year as well as the enrollment cycle that's going forward so far? Sure.
Gail do you want to start it off? Good morning.
It's Gail Boudreaux.
First of all in terms of the overall exchange market we see -- we're very positive about it.
We see it as a significant opportunity both for UnitedHealthcare and for Optum.
And I think one of the things to remember the private exchange market isn't brand new.
While it's certainly seeing some acceleration going into 2014 we have had offerings strong product offerings and feel very well positioned in a number of those markets.
Thinking about the private exchange market I think you have to think about 2 subsectors of it.
One is the retiree exchange and that retiree exchange has had a very consistent movement over the last few years of employers moving into either group Medicare or into private exchange offerings.
Again our product offerings there have continued to grow and are very strong.
We also offer through Optum an opportunity to do a multiemployer exchange which has seen increased enrollment and we expect to see solid enrollment going forward.
The active space is really getting a lot of recent press.
You heard in Steve's comments our offering.
We participate pretty broadly actually and again feel that we have a very strong product offering in the private active exchange and we expect to continue to see growth.
From our perspective there's a number of different types.
Certainly the movement from a self-funded offering to a fully insured offering is a positive for us.
But overall we're pretty optimistic and positive and we see them as an expanding distribution channel going forward.
And maybe I'll ask Mike Weissel to comment a little bit about the Optum opportunity because we work mostly with Optum as well and see their opportunity.
Thanks Gail.
David this is Mike Weissel Executive Vice President at Optum.
And from our perspective we really see 2 major opportunities for us in the exchange marketplace.
The first is just acting as an enablement platform using our myCustomHealth platform to work with payers providers states employers; really anyone who needs that platform for doing an exchange.
But maybe the greater opportunity and the more exciting opportunity for us is how we utilize all the Optum products to assist our client.
So any company moving to a private exchange often has a greater need for incentives wellness care-management capabilities to create a consistent experience across their membership.
And we just see a strong market for ourselves over time in really using our services to meet that need.
So for us basically exchanges have 2 dimensions.
It is a great new channel for us and we'll participate in that channel.
And then for our Optum business it is not -- we can not only be a channel as that but also enable others.
So we really see exchanges as having 2 business dimensions for us.
Thanks for the question.
We'll go next to Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'd like to zoom in a little bit on the cost trend commentary about it not being a helper going forward.
And also combine that with the fact that payroll PPD went from sort of a helper by $100 million last quarter to a headwind of $100 million this quarter.
Can you contrast that with your commentary and talk about whatever you see going on with the medical cost trend? Sure.
I'll have Dan talk to medical cost trends.
But we've had very strong performance in those over the last 2 years.
And I think our only signaling was there's only so much you can expect to achieve out of that so I think that was really the nexus of it.
I don't think we're really planning on offering any new or enlightening views about where trends will be.
Dan? Sure.
Good morning Peter.
Dan Schumacher.
With respect to our medical cost performance as Steve said we're very pleased with it over the course of the year thus far.
But obviously this is a space where our work is never [indiscernible].
As you look underneath it I would tell you that inpatient is an area that continues to be very distinguished for us.
So as you look at each of the 3 quarters this year in each of our 3 businesses we have lowered our bed days.
And that's been true for the last 4 years.
So doing well on the inpatient side.
As you look at the commercial space in particular we've had against our expectations some improvement in the outpatient as well as we continue to focus our program around out-of-network spend around the appropriate site of service and things like that.
When you put it together at the commercial market level we have a trend expectation that we provided was 5% to 6% and we now expect to be at the other lower end of that range.
As you think about the development I wouldn't read into the variation of that quarter-to-quarter or business-to-business.
Some of the factors that influence that obviously is our operating performance stability.
But also those programs that I was talking about in outpatient as an example.
As we introduce those programs and they begin to come into -- in full effect we start to realize those in our actuarial process.
So there is differences in timing quarter-to-quarter and business-to-business.
And last year we did have exceptional levels of reserve development and that fits into the narrative of the contrast between the third quarters -- third year [ph] of '12 versus '13.
And we'll go next to Christian Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just wanted to touch a little on the Medicaid business and the industry fee there.
I know we're getting kind of late into 2013 now.
Any sense for whether you expect some margin leakage there because of the tax? Do you think you're generally going to be made whole in most states? Any color would be helpful.
Sure.
Steve Nelson want to take that? Sure.
Good morning Chris.
It's Steve Nelson.
We actually have made a lot of progress in that area since last quarter.
We have a twisted [ph] kind of level so we have a very robust and consistent rate advocacy process where we're consistently engaged with our states around rates in general and the insurer fee and the tax impact of that is a part of that ongoing conversation.
And I'll tell you at this point we have about 1/4 of our states that have formally committed to including both the fee and the tax impact in the rate.
And while we have a lot more work to do the conversations we've had so far have been very productive and positive.
I would say very much in line with our expectations.
Our next question comes from Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I appreciate your -- the fact that you're probably not going to have an ability to put a fine point to this at all yet at this point but just the commentary around the headwinds to MA for 2014 just kind of beg the question about what the implications are for 2015 because as we look at 2015 we already know we have the health care reform cuts to the rates.
We have the clearing adjustment.
We have the industry fee increasing.
We have -- you mentioned the stars maybe didn't improve as much as you would want them to.
So there's a number of headwinds in 2015 which may argue that the rate situation in '15 might not be dramatically better than 2014.
So I just wanted to understand if there's any good reason to think that the headwinds in '15 would be any better a starting point for thinking about what 2015 looks like as to kind of how you think about how 2014 is going to shape up.
Well I think you have a good list of the headwinds that we all see and have talked about so you have been attentive to our calls over the last couple of quarters.
Those are the things that concern us about basically the funding approaches that have taken into the Medicare Advantage program because it does serve 1/4 of the U.S.
seniors and is the fastest-growing and by far the most popular of the programs.
So that's why we have been vocal about it in that context.
So those headwinds are real.
Now we are clearly pushing back against those in terms of how we're approaching the business.
And I'll let Jack speak to some of the actions that we're taking along those lines.
And our star performance clearly has to improve.
We are not pleased with our execution there and that is something that we have to address.
But we are positioning that business and that business has grown very nicely.
And we want to kind of balance the position of that business and continue to grow it because long term Medicare Advantage and whatever other products come forward in the private sector as Medicare are going to be important because the pressures that you're seeing in the funding from these programs are the pressures that are felt in the program in total and the private sector is the best outlet for that.
I'll let Jack...
Research Division</strong> Just before you can get the clarification...
I'll let Jack respond.
Sorry.
Research Division</strong> I was just going to say that -- yes I'd love to hear Jack's perspective.
But just to clarify do you feel that 2015 headwinds are the same or worse or better than what you're seeing for 2014? We don't know.
I would certainly hope that funding actions are stronger than they were -- have been in the last couple of years.
And then unique to us I think that we need to improve our star performance and that's going to affect us in '15.
That's the thing I would say would be unique to us.
Jack? So hey good morning Kevin.
Jack Larsen.
So I guess maybe first things first.
You've articulated all the headwinds that we're seeing.
And we certainly early on recognized that the shifting of all of the legislative and regulatory prompted rate reductions recalibrations insurers' taxes channeling them through benefit design changes to seniors would have been absolutely crushing both to them individually as well as I think to the sustainability of the program itself.
We also recognize that notwithstanding that point of view on overall reimbursements that we have a responsibility to ensure that we are doing all that we can to make sure that we make the basic product as affordable and as accessible as possible.
The kind of work we're doing is making sure that we have the highly performing best-in-class networks that are aligned not only with us and the physicians but with the members as well.
We are doubling down on efficiency of our clinical programs.
And then of course the never-ending battle we wage on operating cost.
All of that sort of goes in to make the MA program sustainable in individual market.
And so I think with the work we did in 2014 puts us in a good position to take on those challenging headwinds in 2015.
Let me spend a moment on stars since that I think was embedded in part of your question.
I would say overall that we're pleased with the progress we've made.
We have almost 2.5x more of our members in 4-star or better plans for 2014 that will impact the 2015 payment year.
And you need to keep in mind that that star rating represents the activities that we did in 2012.
So while that's a nice percentage gain overall I'd have to say that we're admittedly starting off from a relatively low level.
And we have as Steve said much more work to do to get to the point where we're making the progress we should.
I can tell you that we have an intense level of focus all around the company starting with Steve on down to the UnitedHealthcare organization.
Also within our Optum colleagues.
Who are really a significant part of our overall success.
We are focused on this sector for sure.
Our next question comes from Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So I guess I want to talk a little bit about MA in the context of the overall UnitedHealth Group.
And I think you guys historically have talked about the sort of 13% to 16% earnings per share growth.
Obviously we're not going to get too close to that this year.
And then it sounds like -- I don't know what straddling means exactly but it sounds like the midpoint should be something relatively flat on a year-over-year basis.
So it would imply -- and if the overall business is growing even just low teens then MA is going to be down by 1/3 in terms of profitability next year.
And so I look at your market actions and I understand there's been some product exits but you guys are entering 4 new states -- or counties in 4 different states new counties altogether.
And so I guess I'm just a little bit confused as to what the actual magnitude in terms of the headwind on MA.
Are we really looking at a business that's going to lose 1/3 of its profitability in 1 year? Now so again let's go back to the first question.
We'll talk about 2014 in more specific terms at the investor conference and we will go through each of the business lines along those lines.
The pressure on MA is not a new subject.
We have been talking about this through the course of the year.
We have a lot of opportunities to improve the performance of that business but we have to take a look realistically at the funding levels that have been imposed there.
And the other businesses also have their individual pressures.
So we're going to talk about them on a line-by-line basis at the investor conference and then as a total portfolio.
But if I go back to the range we are clearly focused on growing earnings in 2014.
And the range that we're beginning with encompasses that upside potential.
And I don't know I think it's appropriate for us to be very direct with you all about the headwinds that are in the marketplace and we have done that with you each year and to position ourselves appropriately in a range because there are a range of performance outcomes that could occur as a result of those headwinds not all of which are fully predictable.
But we are putting forward I think an appropriate and I would say positive context when thinking about '14 that we are discussing a range that has upside performance above the upper range of our current year performance.
So I think I would walk away from that to my view in a positive context.
There is a lot of work we will have to do to perform that upper end but we are clearly focused on that.
Research Division</strong> So I think Steve I think I understand the context in which your range will encompass potential upside relative to this year.
I guess I'm still trying to figure out and quantify what the actual impact from MA as you guys have talked about the funding challenges as you...
Josh I know you're trying to quantify that but we are not going to get into quantifying...
Research Division</strong> December 3.
MA or commercial or Optum or any of the other businesses this morning.
Otherwise there will be not much left to talk about at the investor conference.
Research Division</strong> I'll also show up on December 3.
And our next question comes from Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could help us think about how pricing is shaping up in the market for commercial and individual and small group both on and off the exchanges? And then without getting into too much detail maybe if you can help us think directionally about how you're thinking about enrollment for commercial large group and national accounts for next year.
So maybe Gail to start out and then Jeff to comment.
Sure.
Good morning.
A couple of questions there.
Let me start with the pricing question.
First on the commercial pricing environment we've talked about this on I think every call I've been on.
It remains a competitive environment.
What -- this year is a little different in that every year we see -- I call them different themes that play out in each of our local markets.
And some of those themes this year are around what I'll call very selective disruption.
It's not broad but there are some of that playing out as well as some of the early renewals that are occurring in the market.
I think what's important to know about our approach is we haven't changed our pricing approach.
It's staying very consistent our controls and discipline are staying consistent and our focus really is around the value-based products that we put in the market over the last couple of years and feel that those will resonate very well.
In terms of -- I think your second question was on national account enrollment.
I'm going to ask Jeff to comment on what's happening there.
But before I go actually you had asked about pricing in the public exchanges.
And our comments on that -- as you know we have taken a very modest position in the public exchanges.
And unlike any other new entry into a market these are structurally different market-to-market very similar to our existing portfolio so you have to look at those.
Again our approach in those markets is very consistent and we look at things that are basically 2 functions when we set our price.
One is the expected cost of the product and network configuration is an important part of that and then the expected cost of the people to enroll.
And that discipline has stayed very consistent.
As we look at the pricing across the public exchanges you would expect to see a broader range because of it being a new market and quite frankly the network product configurations that are in the marketplace today.
So I don't think that's unexpected but that's essentially what we are seeing.
And I'll ask Jeff to comment on the national account marketplace.
Thanks.
Scott it's Jeff Alter.
Now just to wrap up with Gail so on pricing because obviously pricing and our enrollment outlook are tied together.
So again we remain unchanged in our discipline in our pricing to flow with cost.
And sometimes as you know over our history in doing that it can tend to cause us to give share back within the short term.
So as we think about our enrollment in '14 keeping it at high level obviously sitting in the middle of October there are a lot of things still to play out.
But we do expect our enrollment to be down next year.
And as Steve said in his comments we've come off a string of very successful years but we expect that down to happen primarily in a couple of areas.
One we've mentioned that the national account season early on had a structural change in that the pipeline for new business and existing accounts was the lowest we had seen in a number of years.
And probably based upon all the changes at the national level in the health care system many of our national account clients sat still.
We've mentioned it before in this morning about the impact of private exchanges which we think are going to be positive overall financially.
But as we do transition some of our businesses and some of our clients that are total replacement into an open exchange model it would be prudent to believe we're not going to continue to have the total population back.
But financially it's still a very good trade.
And then we've got our individual business which I'll start right out by saying is not a large contributor to our financial performance but we do have about 900 000 individuals who will be impacted.
So that's -- those are those tranches.
And then I think we've talked about this and the world knows about this the largest driver of our outlook for down for next year is the loss of that large public sector account which we are protesting but at this point believe it's appropriate to say that's a loss.
So those are the -- that's where we're looking at our outlook.
Obviously we'll have a lot more detail in December for you.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And if I could just clarify on that.
So are you saying that when you say expect to be down is that overall commercial membership or is that both overall commercial membership and national accounts membership? I just want to make sure that we have that clear.
Both.
And our next question comes from Ralph Giacobbe with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to public exchanges.
And I know you guys provided some commentary already and obviously you guys have taken a more cautious stance at least initially.
I guess again now that you've seen the pricing are you surprised at some of those levels and maybe some of the strategies some have taken? And then any concern of sort of spillover effect onto the commercial pricing environment over time because of that? Gail you want to...
So I'll go back to -- again there's a few embedded questions in there.
The pricing environment in the public exchanges again ours is a pretty modest footprint.
And there I think it's hard to draw conclusions at this stage from what we see in the pricing from that market because it is based on a whole group of factors that are not necessarily in the broader small group market.
So I think that's the first thing.
And it does really rely on the estimate of the product configuration the network that was chosen as well as the expectation of what the population of enrollment is in that network.
So from that perspective again while I can't comment on others we did expect to see some diversity.
And we think over the long term that as people get experience and understand what's happening in that market we will see that come into a tighter range would be our expectation.
And then in terms of our pricing philosophy I keep going back to we've been very consistent.
We're keeping that same consistent methodology.
The one change that's happening in the marketplace as you know is the market is going to adjust to community ratings.
So that is a change in the marketplace but it's something we're well prepared for and a large part of our business is already in that model given the states we work in.
And we'll go next to Sheryl Skolnick with CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> Steve I'm very intrigued by your commentary more qualitative obviously than quantitative about 2014 because my sense is the early perception of the initial straddle guidance in loose terms was negative.
And yet when you clarified it which was very helpful you suggested that we walk away from it positive.
And I think it was negative because it was seen initially early e-mail contact as being a reversal of your prior commentary which on the second quarter call I think you said that you're intensely focused on if not committed to achieving -- finding ways to achieve growth in 2014 despite the headwinds.
So let me just clarify if I may.
So you said you'd walk away from this positively.
Stock is down.
Obviously the street's walking away from it negatively.
This seems to me to be a continuation of what you said before except represented in a range around current year guidance.
That's question #1.
That's exactly right.
So I don't know how many questions you'll have but that one if -- go back to our commentary and we do pay attention to what we said in the prior teleconferences we see today's commentary to be completely consistent with that.
We would always put them out in a range and what we are really signaling is that that range will have an upper end and we are basically confirming that today.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
So that is good news because obviously with all the headwinds it could have been negative.
So the real question if you can give me some qualitative sense are the things that would have to go right to get to an upper end of that range versus a lower end of that range in very broad terms the positive influences that you see because we've heard a lot about the negatives.
But I'm interested in the opportunity to achieve that upper end which again would temper the negatives for today or decide maybe it's inappropriate to temper that negative.
I'll do my best.
But basically we laid some of the trends out in the teleconference.
We expect our performance on our services businesses our Optum businesses and the services business in United to continue to grow and perform strongly.
We said that in the teleconference.
We must execute at very high levels along things that are hard to do because the medical cost trends have been so well managed.
We have to continue to not only manage them well but manage them better than we have.
We have to execute on strategies we discussed before on Medicare around -- focused on specific targeted markets narrowing networks ever effective -- there are areas where we could make progress in terms of effective care management on the ground level.
It would be in the Medicare book of business.
Those kinds of elements managing and taking our productivity and operating cost disciplines to a next-level performance which I think we are very capable of doing are all areas that we see as opportunities.
And kind of even to just the last area of discussion as I think you all well know that sometimes to improve performance and improve it on the long term you have to do things in the short term that don't -- that have a longer-term logic to them.
So you have to really hold the pricing discipline.
Sometimes you will have to give back some memberships to the marketplace to perform more strongly in the current year and going forward.
So all of those elements that you would imagine we have to do and we have to execute well on.
And as we do we will position ourselves for an even stronger performance position for 2015 because all those things we talked about are structural in nature.
And then beyond that we see growth opportunities that come on to a much higher a much more rigorous platform.
That is in essence the elements of the plan.
We will be laying those kinds of things out in the investor conference.
And to the first part of your question is we put out a range that has a -- acknowledges an upside to where we are today as well as a downside because I think we have a responsibility to acknowledge the headwinds that are in the marketplace.
The notion that we are putting out a range that has an upside to it we think is completely aligned and consistent with the conversation we had last quarter.
We are focused on growing earnings of this enterprise.
It will be difficult in 2014.
We've said that before.
But beyond that we think the things that we're going to do are going to improve and strengthen our business going forward.
And we have very strong businesses and growth opportunities in Optum and we haven't even touched on international.
So that's why I think we do take a positive attitude about where we are.
And we'll go next to Matthew Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one question on the Medicaid business.
You touched on the headwind from the industry fee there.
I think though when we had visited you guys a couple of months ago Jack you in particular had highlighted that unless I misunderstood that the Medicaid businesses on an overall basis you expected earnings to grow in 2014.
I'm just -- I'm trying to match that up with the size of the headwind that you might be facing.
And maybe some of it is just going to be timing because the rates will catch up but how do you get there with the industry fee not reflected in many of the rates? Well I think we can go back to Steve Nelson's comments but I think what he was offering in his discussion about overall rate advocacy is whether you can pinpoint that element in the rate response from the states.
We are getting rates that would suggest that we have opportunity for growth in 2014.
So I would have said that to me was one of the more positive elements in terms of his commentary.
So I think we are getting that kind of overall rate relief.
Steve is that correct? Absolutely.
There's not only within that a positive view and the opportunity to grow earnings but tremendous membership growth as well.
And that will come from a lot of sources but our geographic footprint is really strong.
We're in states that we've developed great partnerships with and we're bringing innovations and capability and have demonstrated competitiveness with recent wins.
And so I think there's a lot of opportunity.
We feel pretty positive about the -- in that business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That was an important clarification.
And we'll go next to Tom Carroll with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So a question on the mix shift that you're highlighting with the sizable fee-based growth this quarter as well as last quarter I believe you commented on it.
But looking year-over-year at the change in your operating cost number as well as your cost of products sold number those 2 things together are up about $700 million year-over-year.
And I'm wondering if you can give us a sense of how much of that increase is attributable to the fee-based growth and should we think about kind of a higher level of operating cost going forward? Maybe Dave Wichmann would be best to cover this.
But when we talk about operating cost relative to that we're talking about services.
So we're talking about the difference between insurance premiums versus services.
There are some services in UnitedHealthcare but the big pieces of services are Optum.
Virtually all of Optum's businesses fall into that category.
And a significant portion of Amil as well because Amil has those significant care delivery services.
All of those elements contribute to that.
So those are the elements that are growing very rapidly and are outgrowing our premium-based arrangements and creating the higher proportion of operating cost versus medical cost because medical costs only come through on risk-based products.
Dave? Yes so a couple of things.
First I think specifically to the lines you're looking at if you look at our services growth year-over-year it's 25%.
And if you look at our products growth year-over-year it's 19%.
And those 2 things are disproportionally pushing our operating costs up which are up about 14% year-over-year and our cost of products sold which are up about 17%.
So you can see just by the very nature of those few line items that there is a significant influence there.
But maybe in the context of the operating cost ratio being up 20 basis points quarter-to-quarter I could demonstrate this more fully.
The single largest driver of that increase has been and in this quarter it's no exception continues to be mixed business exchanges.
And most are the things that Steve just laid out.
We had a large funding conversion this year as you recall in the first quarter.
That of course reduces our revenue side.
We have Amil included and Amil has a higher operating cost ratio in the business.
We brought on TRICARE which is a significant fee-based arrangement.
And of course the results at Optum are eye-popping in terms of the growth and that's largely services-based business.
That again is the dominant component of that.
But in addition to that we have been implementing ICD-10 PPACA implementing TRICARE and reimplementing it unfortunately this year as well but also this PBM migration as well.
So again a large contributor to the operating cost ratio this year.
I'll tell you these are significantly offset by the productivity advances of this team very significantly offset.
I'd say our productivity is not only at the upper end of the range we typically have given you but it's an additional 50% more.
So very very strong results this year in terms of the way we've managed that.
So in general we're very pleased with our operating cost results and the progress we've made in containing them and that's something that we're committed to doing into the future as well.
And we'll go next to Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Can you speak to how you're thinking about public exchange accounting? Specifically can you reasonably accrue for these 3 Rs? And there has been some talk of a plan-initiated data share program to aid on understanding market average risk scores if CMS doesn't provide it until '15.
So is this something that United is considering participating in? And how valid is the insight from this group meaning how much of the exchange market may be participating in the data share? Dan do you want to take care of that? With respect to risk adjustment I think it's important to recognize that it's not something that's unfamiliar to us.
We've got a couple of our large states and very successful states where we have modified forms of risk adjustment today.
And also we operate in Medicare Advantage which as you know has a big risk adjustment to it as well.
To your point we have absolutely participated with a third party to gather industry information and get some feedback on where we sit.
And based on that information as well as our past experience we feel very comfortable with our ability to estimate the results as we get into 2014.
And the other thing that I think is important is our size and geographic diversity is another thing that plays in our favor with respect to risk adjustment.
Research Division</strong> It sounded like you have already participated with this third party on sharing information.
So is there enough out there to kind of tell what the average health of the exchange is? Is that more costly or sick? Yes we've participated in 2 cycles of that right now.
And we will again in the first quarter participate in another cycle of that.
And they're endeavoring to get 75% of the market participants at a local level segmented by small group and individual.
So we'll be able to -- based on that information we think we've got a good sense of it.
And also again our size and geographic diversity are things that will be important to us.
Research Division</strong> Is there any comparison you can offer to your traditional commercial book how much more sick these people are? So I think we might be getting a little muddled in this because I think you might be asking about does this give us insight into what we think the public exchange mix looks like.
And I don't really think we're going to get -- we really don't have an experience with that and I don't think it is our place to comment on that.
I think Dan was commenting that the size diversity and geographic spread of our book gives us a perspective of being kind of very average across the nation.
We're a good proxy for a national platform.
Is that right Dan? That's right.
And Sarah this obviously relates to both on and off exchanges business in small group and individual.
It's really -- that's the reference around our size and scale not our exchange participation which as we've said before is modest initially.
Okay.
So I'm sure we'll be talking and touching more about that at the investor conference as well.
And we'll go next to Carl McDonald with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus on the OptumHealth business earnings up roughly 90% this year and that's come mainly from margins running 300 basis points above your expectations.
So just the 2 related questions there.
What's driving the margin expansion within OptumHealth? And do you think a 10% margin is sustainable or should we look going forward for that margin to return to more historical levels? Larry and John do you want to touch that? Before we start Carl can you clarify are you asking about OptumHealth? Sorry this is John Penshorn.
Are you asking about OptumHealth or Optum overall? I don't follow your question.
Research Division</strong> OptumHealth specifically.
So Carl it's Larry Renfro.
Let me make a couple of comments and then I'm going to ask John Rex to jump in on this.
When we look at Optum we look at the 3 what I'll call the 3 organizations and we have a margin range of each one of them.
And OptumHealth is 8% to 10% and OptumInsight is 15% to 19% and OptumRx is 3% to 4%.
And we try to manage this throughout the year.
And I realize that we had a very good quarter in the third quarter.
But I would say that over the 12-month period based on mix seasonality and investments that we're making that we still believe that that range in Optum -- in OptumHealth is going to be in that 8% to 10% range.
So we don't see anything that's changing that.
I think Steve commented that overall and I'll just say this that we believe that this year we'll finish at 6% which was one of the goals that we have set for 2015 for Optum overall.
But maybe I'll ask John to comment on this in more detail.
Yes.
So if we look at in particular -- so first of all I'd comment that when I look at OptumHealth and the performance 9 months to date and actually I'd kind of broaden it a little bit and talk about Insight and Rx also within that context that when I look at the 9 months we're within the range of those long-term guidance ranges we gave you.
So 9 months to date within OptumHealth and OptumInsight we're running at the high end of those ranges.
And within OptumRx we're running just about in the middle of that range.
And that would be our expectation going forward.
I mean I think quarter-to-quarter year-over-year we see impacts from mix seasonality and investments that we'll be making in the businesses.
So that's why we stick with those long-term ranges that we've set out.
If I would think about OptumHealth particular in terms of the 3Q and some of the highlights I'd say the entire portfolio of businesses within OptumHealth were performing well but I'd maybe point out local care delivery our population health and our health-related financial services businesses as all strong contributors.
But again very much speaking with that long-term range that we've laid out for these business as we will continue to invest.
And I think in total if you look at Optum as an emerging enterprise that there's scale opportunities there that are meaningful.
And I think when we talk about things like One Optum and so forth that's what we're really talking about is that we have opportunities to we think continue to improve the performance and yield of that business.
We go next to Christine Arnold with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Following up on Optum.
I'm hearing a couple of things I just wanted to clarify.
I'm hearing that we're within the long-term range of margins that we expect which suggests that margins will be -- probably not move much next year relative to this year.
But I'm also hearing it's an emerging enterprise with scale opportunities.
Scale opportunities suggests to me kind of margin improvement opportunities.
So can Optum grow earnings at the same pace in '14 as they did in '13? How do I think about that? So let's go back to the very first question of the call.
This is again more triangulation around '14 that we would really prefer to save for the investor conference and can then actually present those things in a coherent and kind of fulsome basis see all of the offerings across the enterprise their relative challenges and their relative opportunities.
There are clearly opportunities in Optum.
We are clearly looking to improve its performance grow its earnings improve its margins but we're not going to comment specifically on '14 until the investor conference.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well then taking a different question then.
If we look at Amil can you talk to how that's performing? And is this an investment year? How do I think about this year's Amil performance relative to kind of future opportunity? Sure.
Well I think we have great growth aspirations for Amil and I think it's performing on or above its plan.
But Dave do you want to talk...
Yes Christine Dave Wichmann.
For the first 9 months of this year Amil is ahead of its financial plan both in terms of growth and profitability.
So obviously we're quite pleased.
I think the economy in Brazil is shaping up to our expectations so it provides a nice platform if you will for growth.
We are seeing that growth in the business both in terms of our membership growth on medical lives which are up about 365 000 since we started and then also in the general marketplace as well which are up about 400 000 lives since we commenced just under a year ago.
I think that growth is really the great assessment of the strength of Amil's offerings and the value of its -- what I'll call semi-integrated delivery model and its ability to offer higher-quality as well as cost-effective products in the marketplace.
This quarter we're experiencing winter so it's kind of counter-seasonal for what we see here in the United States.
So as expected earnings are off related to seasonality relative to our overall expectation.
Just on the integration front it's going very well.
I'd just point out 2 things.
One is we're really working with Amil to I'd say bring a more modern technology and operating infrastructure to that marketplace which I think is a great opportunity for us to distinguish ourselves in the market around service quality and whatnot in addition to the clinical quality aspects of the model that they offer.
And likewise we are -- they are in turn helping us with ideas around clinical care delivery and how that integrates in local markets and drives the peer performance on behalf of the consumers we serve.
So overall you should take away from all that that we're quite pleased to date with our Amil relationship.
We'll go to Michael Baker with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on OptumRx.
Given the fact that you're at the tail end of the Medco integration here I was wondering if there are any plans to differentiate your specialty pharmacy management offering given your unique positioning in the marketplace.
Yes sure.
Well we have a couple of philosophies on specialty.
And the first one is we really focus on adherence because adherence for these very sick patients provides lower medical cost for our customers.
The second thing is we want to eliminate drug waste so we do a lot of work with respect to making sure that we take lab values and the like make sure the treatments are working.
And the last thing I think we're doing from a specialty standpoint is we have great visibility into the medical benefits so we can see and manage about half the spend that resides there.
And we'll go last to Steve Halper [ph] with FBR.
Just looking at Insight OptumInsight.
Over the last few years you've been focused on Optum One and focusing on certain business lines.
How is that progressing in terms of achieving the overall efficiencies as well as what were the stronger performers within Insight during the quarter? Sure.
Larry you want to kick that off and then Bill? Yes and I'll kick it over to Bill.
The overall One Optum plan and I think you said this had in it for 2013 that we were pivoting to growth.
And pivoting to growth what we had talked about doing was really being able to position ourselves to attract what I -- and I said this earlier a larger deeper and more complex relationship.
And the Optum360 the Dignity deal is a good example.
That is part of OptumInsight and Bill can talk a little bit about that.
I can tell you that as we go down the road here the pipeline is very strong.
We think we're well positioned in the marketplace.
And I think that you're going to see more and more of these larger organizations that are going to be part of what I'll call planned investments that we have to put in place as we still have to -- we really have to develop and innovate as we become more of a potent solutions-oriented organization.
So we're positioning for the future a lot in the OptumInsight area.
So Bill? Yes I think we continue to see specifically our compliance offerings expand.
A lot of the work that we're doing with payers around payment integrity and to Larry's point our provider businesses as we continue to create depth with them and really the One Optum strategy coming together to really give more end-to-end oriented solutions is being I think very warmly received by the industry.
The latest example of that is the Optum360 relationship with Dignity.
And I think we're seeing a continued demand for us to be more end-to-end in our approaches and that has been the intent of the One Optum thought and our product integration and our business integrations.
And I think we're reaping the rewards for that.
So I think that's it.
Let me just briefly finish by thanking you again for joining us this morning your interest and participation.
I think we had a very solid third quarter in the context of a very strong 2013.
We think we have meaningful performance opportunities in front of us.
We are focused on optimizing the performance of this enterprise and addressing the headwinds of 2014.
We will look forward to sharing more detail with you and insight at the investor conference on December 3.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning.
I will be your conference operator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here's some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual result to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risk and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated January 16 2014 which may be accessed from the investors page of the company's website.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Given that we provided a comprehensive review at our investor conference just over a month ago and that our 2013 fourth quarter and full year results were generally in line or ahead of that discussion we'll keep our formal comments brief this morning and spend more time on to your questions and topics of interest.
We see 5 takeaways from this morning's discussion.
2013 was a very strong year as we meaningfully advance the enterprise's capabilities our growth and growth potential diversification profile and market momentum.
There are certainly near-term 2014 pressures particularly from ACA implementation and Medicare funding actions that will divert more than $1.50 per share in earnings from us in 2014.
But we have plans and actions in place to offset these reductions and to grow revenue to a range of $128 billion to $129 billion and produce earnings in the range of $5.40 to $5.60 per share with cash flows from operations between $7.8 billion and $8.2 billion.
In 2013 we deepened our capabilities and market relationships and successfully moved beyond significant undertakings such as the OptumRx in-sourcing the implementation of the large long-term TRICARE contract and extensive ACA readiness and compliance efforts.
We move into 2014 with operational readiness and performance levels stronger than ever before.
As Medicare Advantage underfunding is hurting seniors' benefits and causing disruptions to beneficiaries our focus will remain on advocating for fair and consistent government funding to this program that now serves some 30% of this country's Medicare beneficiaries.
In continuing to innovate shape and improve our Medicare Advantage products and services to sustain these benefits can bring the best resources and service experience for American seniors.
We will continue to focus on delivering earnings per share growth in 2015 with our ultimate performance dependent in part on the results of the Medicare Advantage rate-setting processes for 2015.
And finally while we will work intensively through the near-term pressures just discussed and covered comprehensively at our investor conference we believe even more firmly that long-term no organization has greater ability to serve and enable a more effective modern healthcare system and respond to a national imperative to improve the performance at health care and reduce its cost from consumer benefits and well-being to care delivery and enabling technology.
UnitedHealth Group's long-term growth and earnings potential in this undertaking has never been more compelling than it is today.
To briefly review 2013.
Full year revenues grew nearly $12 billion or 10.7% to $122.5 billion and net earnings grew 4% to $5.50 per share.
Earnings were at the top end of the range we provided more than 1 year ago despite the subsequent imposition in sequestration which cost approximately $250 million in operating earnings or $0.15 per share in 2013.
Cash flows from operations is $7 billion or more than 1.2x net income.
Fourth quarter cash flows were $1.1 billion and we ended the year with more than $1 billion in non-regulated cash.
We raised our dividend by 30% once again in 2013.
It is now at a $1.12 per share annual rate.
And we purchased nearly $3.2 billion of UnitedHealth Group shares in 2013.
Return in equity for the year approached 18%.
UnitedHealthcare continued its extraordinary growth in 2013.
We came to serve 4.5 million more people this past year entirely through organic growth including more than 900 000 people in public and senior market benefit programs and nearly 400 000 people internationally.
Stepping back UnitedHealthcare has grown by a remarkable 14 million people over just the past 4 years.
Our benefit businesses are distinctively diversified locally regionally and by product and customer type.
UnitedHealthcare earned $7.3 billion in 2013.
UnitedHealthcare's operating cost were well-managed in 2013 as were medical costs with commercial trends in the area of 5%.
Hospital usage per capita was lower for the fifth consecutive year in 2013 and was lower across all our major benefit businesses.
UnitedHealthcare's results were negatively impacted by funding pressures and government-sponsored benefits 3 calendar quarters of sequestration in Medicare and reduced levels of overall reserve development.
Despite these pressures UnitedHealth Care Group fourth quarter earnings 9% year-over-year to $1.8 billion.
UnitedHealthcare ended the year more aligned than ever with key care provider partners.
We have $28 billion in annual medical spending and 8 million members served under fee for value contract including more than 2 million people under the most progressive of these performance arrangements.
We are intensely focused on expanding our integrated and accountable care leadership throughout 2014 and we have set an aggressive target of having more than $65 billion in value-based contracts with care providers by 2018.
Turning to Optum our Health Services platform.
Our focus on growth simplification integration and building larger and deeper relationships produced record revenues and operating earnings in 2013.
Revenues grew 26% to $37 billion.
Every reporting segment produced double-digit percentage revenue growth.
As just one example of Optum's performance our local care delivery business in OptumHealth increased both the number of payer partners and increased the number of people it served by 6% and it expanded operating margins more than 2 percentage points in 2013.
Medical cost performance and patient satisfaction levels were excellent with the overall trend held flat and our physician groups participating in health plan contracts with quality Star ratings ranging from no less than 3.5 up to 4.5 stars.
During the fourth quarter Optum QSSI was honored to be engaged and serve CMS in their efforts to enroll million of Americans to the federal and state exchanges.
Great progress was made over the past 90 days and we are pleased to be a part of that effort.
And we will stay involved in the senior advisory capacity as this project moves to its next phase of development.
For the year Optum's operating earnings of $2.3 billion grew 61% or $875 million over 2012 and are now up 84% over our 2011 baseline year.
Fourth quarter 2013 operating earnings increased 43%.
Optum reached its 6% operating margin target 2 years early in 2013 and now has established a new target called 8 by '16 which means an 8% operating margin by 2016.
As we enter 2014 with our company in a very positive position we will continue to closely study the development of the individual public exchanges in 2014 and will be selective in our approaches for 2015.
However we expect to realize strong growth by serving several ways: as established Medicaid programs grow through the ACA expansion; as eligible Medicaid prospects were identified to the federal and state exchange market; and as the inevitable dual eligible MME initiatives begin to form in our implement.
The recent Tennessee Medicaid award for 2015 in which we earned the highest score among 7 qualified bidders our 2015 renewal in Hawaii and the Michigan MME award all reflect our strong capabilities and established relationships in the rapidly growing Medicaid market.
We have won 30 new RFPs or contract renewals in the past 4 years and we have grown organically by more than 1 million people served through our UnitedHealthcare community and state business over that period.
Continuing on 2014.
Our initial Medicare growth is within our estimate with balanced new membership growth and large employer wins during the year offset by our exit from plans covering 150 000 people and the loss of over 90 000 seniors in 1 state account.
Our Part D and Medicare Supplement offerings continue to grow well in the marketplace.
We continue to expect commercial group risk membership to be stable in 2014 with our commercial individual insured membership declining over the course of the year.
And the number of consumers served in fee-based arrangements declining due to the loss of that large state account as well as some migration to private exchanges for both retirees and active employees.
Our 2014 plan includes the collection of insurance fees and related taxes from state Medicaid customers.
We have strong oral commitment from our customers that these were paid and we will record these revenues as written contract amendments are finalized over the course of the year.
The timing of these final commitments could affect quarterly earnings progression.
UnitedHealthcare's earnings in the first quarter will also see year-over-year variances related to reserve development capital gains and the effect of sequestration which did not take effect until April 1 2013.
Optum continues to build out its businesses around the themes of engaging consumers aligning and optimizing care delivery modernizing the health systems infrastructure and using data and analytics to make the health system more informed aligned and effective.
Optum expects strong top and bottom line growth in 2014 with operating earnings in the range of $3.1 billion to $3.2 billion and $45 billion to $46 billion in revenue.
This performance will put earnings growth in the area of 25% and that growth rate includes in both years the earnings contributions from realigning our IT and global services businesses into Optum in 2014.
This natural alignment will help us create and capture growth opportunities in business process outsourcing for health care and in healthcare IT assignments similar to our efforts in service to CMS.
Optum's earnings are expected to be strong in the second half of 2014 due to growth investments early in the year such as fully implementing Optum360 as well as more traditional seasonal earnings pattern.
In the fourth quarter of this past year both S&amp;P and Moody's confirmed our corporate debt rating and upgraded their outlook.
We ended the year with more than $1 billion in available cash and a ratio of debt to total capital below 35%.
We continue to project cash flows from operations in a range of $7.8 billion to $8.2 billion in 2014 and expect to return well more than $4 billion to shareholders through share repurchase and dividend.
Standing back from the numbers UnitedHealth Group is in a very strong position.
We have posted consistent growth for several years as measured by people served revenues contract backlog cash flows operating earnings dollars under value-based contract and so on.
We have leading positions in our market but our market share is much lower than leaders typically have in more mature industries.
We serve large and growing markets so we have considerable organic growth opportunities for the future.
Our scale benefits the consumers clients and customers we serve through innovation cost advantages efficient service and so on and this naturally engenders further growth.
That model is expanding in care provider services and care delivery with government agencies and national employers and with consumers and in Brazil in Europe and beyond.
Very large and sophisticated customers are seeking an enterprise-level partner one with proven capabilities and the financial strength to help them navigate the changes that both consumers and government regulations are driving throughout the market a partner like UnitedHealth Group.
In closing I would simply once more shorthand each takeaways.
2013 was a very strong year in growth achievement and capabilities and putting some big operational tasks behind us.
2014 will feel the impact of the ACA taxes and Medicare funding pressures but we believe we can produce revenue growth and earnings in the $5.40 to $5.60 per share range.
We suggest the quarterly earnings progressions need to better accommodate the first quarter and first half factors we discussed this morning.
And finally in the longer term we believe our prospects to grow and produce positive change across the health system for the benefit of all the system participants and our shareholders remain exceptional.
So thank you for your time this morning and we now would like to address your questions discuss areas of interest to you today.
So can we ask the moderator to take over and we'll respond to questions.
Again 1 per analyst please out of respect for the others in line.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Sarah James with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> You touched on Medicare headwinds for '15 in the prepared remarks and I wanted to better understand if that's a headwind compared to '14 so an incremental headwind in '15? I don't think we were really suggesting anything other than we had said at the investor conference that obviously there were rate actions taken related to 2014 that we believe significantly underfunded the program.
And we had indicated there that we are -- continue to be watchful about the funding posture on the Medicare Advantage program.
And we will continue to be watchful of that and continue to advocate strongly for consistence reasoned funding of these program and continued commitment to American seniors who participate in them.
I think we didn't really mean anything more than that.
Research Division</strong> As I think about items to watch there was that update in December of the 200-basis-point change in fee-for-service cost trend assumptions so that kind of got us to a starting point of down 6% to 7%.
And I think about some offsets to that.
United has been very successful in medical cost savings through ACOs and risk-sharing contact with providers.
So could you quantify what kind of trend vendor these efforts could create across the entire Medicare book? I don't think we can.
At kind of that distance we think these programs are extremely effective and they're effective in terms of their cumulative effect.
And we are intensely engaged on them across basically all of our benefit businesses but certainly as they relate to government programs.
In terms of the discussions that were held in December we are not going to speculate really on what ultimate funding may come forward or change our position on that.
We are going to be intensely engaged as that process goes forward.
And as I've said before we're going to continue to advocate strongly for strong and responsible funding to these programs.
And I think we really can't speculate on a process that is really just not even really formally begun.
We'll go next to Christine Arnold with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Steve you highlighted some seasonality issues both in Optum investing in Optum360 and then some seasonality issues there as well as some timing issues potentially with the health insurance fee.
Could you help us think about some of these timing issues within both Optum and UnitedHealthcare and how they might impact progression of earnings relative to what we've seen historically? I know you talked about first quarter those 3 factors.
But any help you could give us would be appreciated.
Yes I think -- well I think the general theme is to be -- I'm going to hand these off because they do really touch different parts of our business.
And I'll probably ask John Rex to speak to some of the front end on Optum and then in terms of the Medicaid activities Steve and Dan.
But I think the -- we're obviously suggesting that you relook at the progressions in terms of again I'll say the first half versus the second half of the year given the timing of when these Medicaid contracts will actually fall in informal terms and the patterns of the Optum business both in its new business and its traditional seasonality.
But John you want to start up? Yes.
So when I think about Optum in 2014 so we'd expect a pattern first half second half pattern of roughly 40% 60% in terms of earnings progression for the year.
Now if you think about 2013 we're roughly 40% 45% in the first half.
So the impact there you're seeing some of the impact of the investments we're making in these larger more comprehensive relationship that we've talked about and that would be an impact that you'd see particularly as you look across the Insight and the OptumHealth businesses.
Things like Optum360.
And Optum360 in particular.
The one that we talk about most.
And then Steve you want to talk about Medicaid? Christine it's Steve Nelson.
We have -- as you've heard me say before we have a year-round process we're engaging based on rates and we call this rate advocacy and especially from the competency of our business.
But the fees and tax impact has been a part of that.
We consider a part of our cost.
As we sit here today the states have over -- or I'd say overwhelming majority of our states have agreed to reimburse us for both the fee and the tax impact.
Actually those fees have technically said no to us.
We are continuing to be engaged with them in a productive and I think thoughtful discussion.
So it's more work to do but the progress is really significant and our outlook is positive.
In terms of how we recognize the revenue Dan do you want to comment on that? Sure.
Christine on the revenue recognition side as Steve mentioned the overwhelming majority we've got commitments.
With respect to revenue recognition we'll be relying on written commitments.
We have a very good share in hand today but still have some more to get and will make progress over the course of the first quarter and throughout the year and that will influence the timing of the revenue recognition.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you elaborate on what portion maybe you're not comfortable but if you are what portion you have written commitments on the health insurance fee to get all of it recovered? And are they filling in efficiency adjustments below the line by telling you that you're getting the health insurance fee but then saying you're going to get all these new memberships so maybe we don't need to you as much? Or are they recognizing the pent-up demand? You fit a couple in there.
With respect to the insurance fee specifically the majority of our states are looking to do a lump sum true-up once the fee is actually known.
So we'd expect to get it in the September timeframe from a reimbursement standpoint.
And in terms of how many we have in hand from a written commitment we have less than half but more than 1/3.
So we're making strong progress and we've got -- we expect in the next week and the coming weeks to be more of that as well as for the second quarter.
Your other question around pent-up demand that was more I think aimed at the expansion population in the newest health members into those markets.
We do have an expectation of higher views related to those new members and we have in the vast majority of our states a separate rate sell that does account for and reflect a higher initial use pattern.
We'd expect that obviously to moderate over time as our clinical programs take hold.
We'll go next to Justin Lake with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on Medicare Advantage.
It sounded like you said you're seeing membership on track versus your expectations.
Wondering if we can get a little bit more color here in terms of what you're seeing in open enrollments specifically maybe talking through some of the impact from changes to your physician network and on member attrition.
Because of this maybe are you seeing any selection issues happening here in terms of bigger members leading more significantly than others et cetera? I'll have Jack respond to this.
And I'm sure he will hit this point too.
But we would remind you that we start out the year 250 000 or so down given the market exits we took and the single contract that we lost.
So Jack do you want to pick up on that? Sure Justin.
Jack Larsen.
Maybe before I tackle the multipart question here on the 2014 let me go back and remind you about 2013 and the very strong growth year we had there almost 1 million members with something around 425 000 in Medicare Advantage alone.
With respect to the 2014 AEP performance let me take the growth part first.
I'd say we were on our plan in all of our major product lines Med Stop Part D MMA.
I think for individual Medicare Advantage we took a little bit of a different approach this year and really aimed at preserving and in fact growing our share in markets that we would consider to be long-term financially stable viable markets for us.
And in these particular markets we have really strong growth and we have retention member retention that was actually improved over what we had seen in prior years.
And I would say in some other markets we made a decision that we were going to seed some share to others.
And in those markets where we pay some benefit decisions we saw retention slightly less than historical levels as well as the rate of production and new business.
And I think as Steve referred to you hit it right out.
We started with about 150 000 people affected by market withdrawals.
Now on the group side we I think chatted at the investor conference about the loss of a large state-based contract of about 90 000 people effective 1/1.
And you're seeing those numbers in the recently posted CMS result.
That will be offset effective February 1 through the win of a large state account in roughly the 90 000 member range.
So all-in I'd say we're right where we thought we would be this AEP and feel pretty good about our plus or minus 50 000 member growth that we shared with you at the investor conference.
In terms of mix it's just way too early.
I don't think we're seeing anything that surprises us.
But we're doing that analysis now.
We need to see a little more information on our inbound members from CMS.
And I think we'll have a better point of view the next time we speak in the [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Jack maybe just in terms of any comments on the impact due to enrollment of some of these physician -- from the physician network changes? And maybe talk a little about what benefit that's going to give you in terms of quality improvements and cost going into 2015? And then just lastly on those markets that you did decide to take a step back on would it be fair to say -- should we think that the market should be concerned that you put -- that the members that are being put back into the market or that you're exiting are significantly different in terms of morbidity or risk versus those in the existing book and then maybe there could be some selection issues in the market broader? Yes.
So as I said earlier we did see levels of attrition a little higher in those markets that we chose to seed some shares.
Some of those markets are aware we are taking our network optimization network restructuring kind of work.
And it's also -- it's geography but it's also products as well.
So we differentiated between HMO products and PPO products.
I think in terms of just what we are trying to accomplish in our network activities there's just a ton of pressure all over the system.
Steve referred to it and we talked about it at the investor conference.
And I think that rate pricing pressures probably most defeat Medicare.
The system's fragmented.
Clearly it has rising cost.
And I think everyone agrees it's got the opportunity for demonstrably better outcomes.
I think what we're -- the themes we see and really what the Affordable Care Act is telling us is law and CMS is suggesting us through regulations is that the industry has to change and we have to change.
We have to be more integrated.
We need to be more aligned.
We need to have a provider network that is aligned with us better both in terms of data and financially.
And we need to do all of that with far less resources.
And I think these are the themes that we're responding to.
This is what you are seeing us and others do in the marketplace with respect to reaching out and making affirmative changes in our network.
So we're really evolving to meet the requirements of a Medicare program that's going to be successful in the future.
So while it's going to be a little noisy and a little turbulent we acknowledge that.
I think we're conforming our business in the right way to be successful in the Medicare program in the future.
Gail do you want to comment? Sure.
Justin it's Gail Boudreaux.
In addition to what Jack just said about network I think it's important to think about that this activity across network is going on across all the benefits space.
And Jack referenced some of just the incredible pressure in the system around rising costs connectivity and quite frankly getting better outcome.
But in addition to just the shaping of the network to meet the unique populations in Medicare we're also very focused as you know on increasing our pay-for-performance across Medicare.
We talked about that a little bit at our investor conference moving that up dramatically over the next few years.
Greater clinical integration.
And it's all to drive better outcomes.
And again those who respond to CMS' desire to have greater primary care centric networks and better outcome that's happening across all of the benefits businesses and it's really important about -- as we think about modernizing the health care system.
So what we're trying to do there I think is evident in Medicare but it's also evident in our other business.
And our support is provide better data and allow these physicians to better and more effectively manage these patients.
We'll go next to A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I think I just might switch gears and ask you about the Optum and the experience with QSSI.
Obviously in the last 2 months you guys have gotten a lot of kudos for how that's worked out.
Can you comment on maybe your thoughts on the business implications of the way that's played out? Has that opened up other contracting opportunities with the federal government outside the federal government and beyond? And give us some flavor for that if you would.
Sure.
Obviously I think as you're suggesting that it's had a very positive reputational effect.
But Larry if you're on the line do you want to start this and then maybe Andy Slavitt comment as well? Sure.
A.J.
I think you probably know this so let me give you a little history here.
When we started the project prior to October 26 -- and I'll just use that date -- we were a contractor that built the data services hub as well as the registration process something called the IDN.
And then we controlled all the testing.
When we got brought in on October 26 to work on fixing the site we got obviously to work with CMS and HHS.
And they did a great job of kind of outlining everything to us so that we kind of understood where we were at.
And that's why we became the general contractor.
And coming to general contractor we were operating under what I would call an urgent timeframe for about 60 days to get things accomplished.
And then we were able to get through that learn a lot and it's now in what I'll call a more normalized environment.
And we -- we have just become as I'm sure you read a senior adviser.
And I'll have Andy talk about that in a second.
But what I would say is we obviously learned a lot in terms of working with the federal government and being a part of the whole process.
I would tell you that we are also working with a lot of the state.
And I think that when we were at our investor conference we talked about we were moving over on the UHG IT side what we do with our technology infrastructure and so forth.
So we believe that's going to tie in nicely to what we did for the government to be able to offer candidly around the industry.
So it's going to expand what we do.
So we appreciate what we were able to accomplish and what we've learned but we believe we're just kind of starting.
Andy you got anything else? Yes just had a couple of quick thoughts.
First of all this is -- some of this is repetitive of what Steve and Larry covered.
Clearly this was a job done principally by CMS with the help of a lot of contractors.
We were glad to be and continue to be glad to be involved.
I think in terms of implications I'll just point the 3 things.
First is we try to build our reputation on big complex problems that we can solve for clients in health care and hopefully more clients will have an opportunity to see Optum in action and that's a good thing.
Second as Steve mentioned in his opening remarks and Larry just hit on it we can bring technology outsourcing to this industry in a way that we think is unique to health care.
And so we think there's opportunity both in and out of the government for us to do that.
And the third there are situations very much like this around the country and state-based exchanges where some level of business problem-solving prioritization and leadership will be called for.
And we're happy we were able to jump into those situations as well.
I'll just finish by reinforcing the fact that we were pleased to be part of that.
That was a broad team effort.
There were significant efforts and progress made in terms of the participation from CMS their leadership and their staff.
And all of the partners the outside suppliers around that everybody pulled together in an extraordinary way to do that the only way that could have been accomplished.
And so really the credit really should be spread broadly.
We'll go next to Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just wanted to come back to Medicaid quickly.
Understand the comments about the lump sum true-up and that most states or all states have essentially verbally agreed to maybe the true-up for the fee.
But from a GAAP earnings perspective does -- can you just help us understand whether you can on a GAAP basis just assume you're going to get it in the first quarter and second quarter if you haven't actually received anything in writing? Or just generally how the fee might impact EPS on a quarterly basis? Chris it's Dan Schumacher again.
With respect to recognition obviously the expense associated with the tax will be incurred in each month across the year.
On the revenue recognition we will rely on written communication.
And where we have those we'll be booking revenue in each of the respective quarters.
And where we don't we'll be weighting what we do.
Even though you mentioned lump sum they may pay in lump sum but you will recognize appropriate matching once you get a contract.
Correct.
LLLP Research Division</strong> But so in theory this could create a -- if you don't have something inked at least early in the year it could create a bit of a headwind in the first second quarters of '14 is that correct? That's why we mentioned it.
It's exactly why we mentioned it.
And we'll go next to Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the commentary around 2015.
Obviously appreciate that it's a little bit early to be talking about it.
But with all indications that the 2015 MA rate may be as bad if not worse than the 2014 we've seen proposed can you just give us a sense of what within your business might be doing better in 2015 than 2014? I mean I just try to -- struggle with the concept.
I think you started off by saying you expect growth in 2015 but the impact will really be determined by the final MA rate.
So I just want to see if the rate is as bad in 2015 as it is in 2014 what operational levers within MA or outside of MA can you see at this point that might help you show a growth rate better than what you're showing in 2014? Well again we're not going to speculate on where the funding activity will ultimately play out.
We have a very broad and diverse business.
We are intensely focused on improving our performance across the board.
As you can see the performance that has been achieved in -- broadly in several areas across UnitedHealthcare.
The sense of growth in Medicaid to the very strong performance that we had in the commercial business this past year and the opportunities internationally.
And then the opportunities for Optum I think are impressive and they have established a track record of performance.
And we are intensely focused on our cost and the continued improvement of our businesses.
So I would think that they would be all the traditional kinds of things that one would be pursuing.
And we are pursuing them I think with significant intensity.
I just think that in January off of the strength of a phone call conversation in December with CMS that we should necessarily take undue direction from that and that we will see how this process proceeds.
And as I've said before I think that there is a broader sense of responsibility to American seniors than to have underfunded the program by our measures about 6.7% last year.
And if there is speculation that there would be underfunding at that level again in this year that would be almost a 13% pullback on Medicare Advantage over the course of 2 years.
And we would think that that would be extraordinarily disruptive.
It remains to be seen.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the commentary about the underfunding it does seem to be a significant cutover a couple of years.
But and also it's very difficult to propose -- or to forecast what's going to come out of CMS at any point of time.
But when the rate hits we have to interpret that the day it happens.
And everything that you've outlined to me sounds like things to your point that you've been working on for 2014 and you're seeing benefits from them in 2014.
I guess the question is if we see something similar from MA in 2015 if you'd do the same things to offset it in 2015.
There is a reason for acceleration outside of the MA business -- or is there I guess is my question.
Well I think that we have probably more areas to accelerate and to grow and build on than perhaps anyone else in the space.
And then we would take the steps necessary with respect to benefit adjustments market considerations network actions premium actions cost and distribution cost.
So there's a broad repertoire of actions that we are taking and the question really comes down to the intensity of those.
And that's where we get down to disruption.
We'll go next to Ralph Giacobbe with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's obviously still early in the year.
But the issues around the roll-out persist.
Over time obviously you would think that things would start to work themselves out.
But just given the timeline of bids due just in the next kind of few months.
I guess what are your thoughts on playing in the exchange in 2015? Should we expect a similar approach and maybe more limited activity? Or have you seen enough where we should start to expect you to be a sort of a more active participant? And then maybe just how much if at all is the '15 MA outlook just sort of influential on that decision or not? Or is that sort of something that's kind of mutually exclusive? Sure.
So Gail and Jeff do you want to start? Sure.
Well Ralph first of all in terms of the public exchanges I think you know that we've got a very modest footprint.
And as I shared at Investor Day our decisions around 2015 our participation will really be very much reliant on how this market matures.
So at this stage we're really not projecting our participation.
We will be looking at sort of the -- how robust the enrollment is what the risks in those markets are and the consumers participating and quite frankly the cost structure is on those markets.
So at this stage I don't know that we have any additional guidance to give you from what we shared at the investor conference but that's our outlook.
Research Division</strong> Would you expect to have that though just in the next kind of few months? I mean I'm sure there'll be some level of incremental.
Again it's a maturing marketplace.
It's really early.
It's just rolled out.
We'll be looking at a market-by-market basis.
So we're not going to give guidance around our participation at this stage but we're going to watch the markets mature.
And we'll get more information and we'll be sharing that with you as it becomes known to us.
In terms of your second question on Medicare and does that influence our exchange participation I would say no it doesn't.
We're going to look at -- we look at each of our markets very specifically and look at the dynamics in those markets.
So we will take a very focused look at exchanges.
And as you heard from Steve we'll also look market-to-market in Medicaid -- Medicare just as we did this year.
Generally our view on '15 is that we are not dependent on exchanges.
Right.
I mean we will take this in a measured way.
We'll go next to Sheryl Skolnick with CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> Now my question though I'm sensing some sensitivity among investors and indeed some of this is on my end.
Perhaps I don't understand exactly what kind of pricing decisions you made for 2014 with respect to your estimates of cost trend and a recoupment of the fees through higher premiums where possible.
There's a sense out there that that trend is kind of tied to premium right now and that perhaps if the fees are 100 to 200 basis points there's only 80 basis points or so of wiggle room.
That was one statistics suggested to me.
So I'm wondering if you can comment on that and give us some comfort or some indication of what's happening there especially with respect to a trigger here that's the medical cost ratios have been a tad high in the fourth quarter and I'm wondering if that's anything that might be indicative of the pricing versus cost trend in '13 and then in '14 anything in the conversation as we speak.
So we'll have Jeff kind of speak to that pricing discussion.
And if we have not get fully your question then we'd clarify it on the end.
So Jeff do you want to start? Sheryl it's Jeff Alter.
So I think the market test and their surveys are correct.
Our pricing in 2014 is stronger than it was in 2013.
And you mentioned it a part of the reason that it's stronger is because of the ACA fees taxes as well as the essential health benefits across all markets.
And then when you look at small group and individual the move to community rating depending on which part of that marketplace you're looking at you could see some much stronger pricing.
Your suggestion around cost trend versus pricing just a couple of things to think of.
One we have not changed the discipline of pricing that has gotten us -- has been successful for us for a very long time.
We look at our forward cost which now include as I mentioned some impacts due to the ACA.
But we're certainly as focused on medical trends as we had ever been in the prediction of medical trend.
The medical trend for pricing was about a point higher in '14 than it was for '13 and we match our premium to that.
Again I know it's been a few years but we'll go back to the MLR.
We manage this across hundreds of intersections so that we try to stay as close to that rebate line as possible.
So depending on which market you're looking at or studying we may have rebates that are still to be paid in that marketplace.
And we're continuing a long how to adjust to that very tight band around that MLR.
And in other markets we have the ability to price a little bit stronger.
So that is all in that calculus that creates our forward pricing as we move forward.
And now more than ever impacts for the ACA are also included in there.
Good discipline well-aligned with medical cost trends and really not particularly significant changes in the marketplace.
We're competitive but we think we are pricing well.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And the MLR performance in the fourth quarter were you comfortable with that? Yes.
Sheryl this is Dan.
From a fourth quarter standpoint as we look at that medical costs were well controlled.
If we look at the implications on both loss ratio and trend they were very much in keeping with our expectation from Investor Day and set the stage for the right jumping off point into 2014.
We'll go next to Matthew Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just ask on the commercial enrollment and what you're seeing from employers as sort of 2-part question.
Number one are you seeing anything significant in terms of employee uptake of coverage now that there's this broad awareness of the individual mandates? Some employers evidently are seeing that in some cases I gather as significant.
And somewhat related to that just curious on comments on the commercial risk enrollment results for the fourth quarter.
Just those were stronger than we expected.
I just wonder if you could remind us if there was a special factor there.
Sure Matt it's Jeff Alter.
I guess on your first question it's sort of hard to tell.
I think that would probably most happen in our largest clients.
And it takes a little bit past 1/1 to make sure that all those enrollment files are correct.
And so we usually feel better about commenting on sort of the National Account growth or growth in existing accounts by the time we get to February it's a little too early to talk about that.
We do see interest for some employers to create a different benefit construct that could allow for growth.
But we haven't seen those results come through yet in our 1/1 enrollment.
Talking about our fourth quarter '13 I think there were a few things that were driving that.
There was a fairly large push in our individual business to sign up as many enrollees as possible early so that we can give that advantage of an additional year without the ACA impact.
And that program was an aggressive program and it was very successful.
And then we had mentioned probably throughout '13 that there was interest in our small group clients for alternative plan years for them to be able to keep their benefits for that additional year even prior to the president's announcement.
So that did drive some I'll call it one-time growth in the fourth quarter of '13.
Research Division</strong> Just so I could understand because I'm a little confused about it.
I would think that those dynamics would make you feel more secure about retention at the small group and individual level but not necessarily explain growth if you're doing early renewals with your current account base.
Was there an element to this that also drove some growth? Yes.
So in some markets the value proposition that we put into the market was not matched by some competitors.
And so we were able to take some share.
And then you're right it did help attrition.
It also helped the sort of retention of groups that might have left anyway.
So when you think of a small group attrition rate of somewhere in that 15% to 20% those groups that were renewing in that fourth quarter there was a higher attrition rate -- a better retention rate.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And sorry just last thing on this.
Wouldn't this make you maybe feel a little bit better about the guidance on individual not that it necessarily moves the needle much but given what you saw towards year-end? We're not -- at this point we're not changing our guidance for '14.
There's a lot to play out.
We'll go next to Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can we talk about OptumRx for a minute and in terms of the growth you expect in 2014 and 2015 probably from outside clients.
But also I want to understand how the rule changes that came out on preferred networks will impact you whether there's integration savings -- integration expenses that you'll save that you won't have to do next year.
And then from the early marketing window what are you seeing in terms of how it's starting to look for 2015 and then the potential for your specialty trend to help you win business? Okay 3.
Okay so let's start with growth.
I think we had a nice momentum coming out of 2013.
Our value prop continues to resonate in the marketplace.
If you look at '14 sort of excluding our last wave of the migration we'll probably grow north of 1.5 million next year.
Based on what we sold on 1/1 we'd be confident in that number.
As it relates to CMS I'd like to comment more broadly I think.
What we'd like to see from the CMS proposal any CMS proposal is -- and the rule-making is the ability to continue to incent the efficient mail channel and manage preferred networks consistent with historical practices.
We believe both those things are really good for the beneficiary and good for the Medicare program.
Last thing specialty trend I would say a couple of things.
I think we continue to have a good advantage with our ability to manage not only the specialty benefit but then -- the specialty spend within the medical benefit but also in our formulary.
I think that's a good thing that we've historically done and our trend has reflected that over time.
I think that got all your question does it not? LLC Research Division</strong> Just integration expenses and then you bringing in the cost from doing the big integration that you've done this year or bringing that PBM in house is there some substantial savings that we should be expecting going forward? Yes we did recognize that savings.
As I talked about at the Investor Day there's -- we're not changing our guidance for next year.
The avoidance of those expenses in 2014 compared to '13 definitely provided us with earnings lift in 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> And nothing incremental for 2015? It's already in our numbers.
Yes I would say that it's already in our numbers.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Do you think the changes the rule changes if they happen as they are proposed will hurt your competitors more than they will hurt you in terms of preferred networks? You know what I can't really speak to what I think about that right now.
We'll hold off.
We're sort of in the rule-making phase as we speak right now.
We got to let the full rule play out.
We'll give our comments during the comment period as will our competitors.
We'll be able to speak more deeply about this as the year progresses when we get a specific visibility into what the rules are.
We'll go next to Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up just on the commercial pricing and cost trends and would be interested if you can maybe drill in just comparing small group and large group for your expectations for 2014.
So with the expected 100 bp increase in cost trend how does that compare between small group and large group? And then maybe just an update on sort of the pricing environment in small group versus large group and whether you're seeing any variance there? Jeff? Sure.
So we're not going to get into that level of detail in a call like this.
I would say the -- just to comment around small group pricing this is a transitional year for many markets.
We're moving out of medically underwritten to community ratings.
So I think on a call like this in a summary discussion it's hard to discuss small group versus large group when you have such a transition going on in small group as we move to that community rating formula.
Yes.
And Scott this is Dan Schumacher.
I would just add that obviously in small group there's a lot more variability than there is in large group because small group's going through the transition to adjust to community rating.
And based on your health status previously there's more variation in the price differential at the group level in the market than there is at the large group which is always okay.
I don't think there's any really new change in the marketplace.
This is Gail.
I would just add to Jeff and Dan's comments to the tone of your question which is that the small group market has remained pretty consistent with the exception of the change in community rating.
The market competitiveness is relatively the same as we commented the last few quarters.
We'll go next to Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Question just broadly about M&amp;A.
2013 was very quiet by United's standards.
The deployment of capital for acquisitions is $300 million or so.
So I'm curious is there something in the environment do you think that the level of uncertainty around reform has created a bigger divide between buyers and sellers? Or is there something else going on there? And maybe I know you guys have talked specifically around a pipeline per se for M&amp;A.
But with things you're looking at would you consider it to be similar to what we're seeing in '13? Or do you think there's going to be more opportunity going forward? Maybe we'll comment very broadly but we generally don't like to comment on what our view of the potential expansion marketplace is or what our interest might be or are because we consider that to be somewhat competitive and strategic.
I'd just offer broadly that often the biggest impediment is valuation and whether we feel comfortable with how the market is valued across a particular set of asset or asset classes.
Do you have any comment Dave? Josh I think I'd just also remind you that we were coming off of the -- at least for us we were coming off of the Amil acquisition which was quite substantive the fourth quarter of last year.
And what shows up more as a financing activity as opposed to an investing activity is the tender that we did for Amil's public shares that's about 1.5 billion as well.
So it was roughly about 1.8 billion or so allocated to M&amp;A type activity.
And lastly I'll just say to reiterate the thing at our investor conference we are clearly a -- an M&amp;A company and our interests in M&amp;A continue.
Our agenda is virtually the same which is really around building these capabilities geographic market presence.
But possibly a slight bias more towards Optum in the international markets which we think are fast-growing and expansive markets.
But we'd also look to -- for opportunities to leverage our scale broadly in our business.
The next question will come from Andrew Schenker with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about Medicaid.
Clearly you don't break out Medicaid MCRs.
But at a high level how should we think about the cost for the business maybe excluding the industry fee reflecting kind of the growth and mix that you'll be staying including long-term care duals the expansion of re-procurement.
How big an impact mix had on MCR? And would any changes be temporary once you get these people into your care management programs or should there be a long shift upward in the MCRs for that product? We don't comment -- maybe Steve can make a few comments on this.
But in general we really don't get into margin discussions at that level of depth.
We have historically suggested that the range of margin for those businesses in the 3% to 5% 3% to 6% level depending upon the performance of the business in a particular year.
And that mix ultimately even if one offering were to be particularly strong it tends to generally ultimately come down into that general range of 3% to 5% for that kind of business.
And we're really not changing our perspective on that.
And I think that's well aligned with the marketplace.
That said Steve do you have anything to offer? Stephen I think those are good comments.
I would just say generally they -- the opportunities to grow in Medicaid are robust and they include a variety of populations.
For example more complex populations the expansion population has different utilization characteristics at least the first as Dan mentioned.
And as we engage with them and are -- both the complex population and expansion population engage with them our distinctive clinical models and our pride of capabilities that we have I think a really strong track record we'll be able to bring a lot of value to our state partners and good outcomes to these populations.
So it's part of our business.
It's part of the growth opportunity.
And we're actually -- really like our position and our opportunities in the space.
And just to expand on Steve's earlier comments in the beginning really strong track record in competing successfully for this business with that.
Yes it's a very localized business local programs.
So these margins run their range from year-to-year across that -- those geographies.
And given our scale we aspire to the higher ends of those margins.
But we will run the range of those margins across our markets over time.
So it is a business with a great deal of variation market to market.
Our final question comes from David Windley with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> On specialty drugs I'm hoping to get the sense of magnitude.
Do the hep C drugs have the potential to make a meaningful impact on the trend in specialty? And from a rate advocacy standpoint are you having discussions with the states as I understand a lot of this may hit Medicaid are you having discussions with the states about them potentially backstopping you in some way on the cost of drug life stability? So Dirk do you want to comment in general.
And then I think that sounds to me more like a Medicaid question than a drug question.
But maybe you want to talk about the specialty additions.
Yes well just hep C in general I think -- we know that new therapies have recently been launched.
The competition is valuable for our strategy at state.
Like any other drugs we compare the efficacy versus the cost of these drugs.
And when we look at those we'll decide where to place them from a tier perspective.
We would of course steer utilization from a tier strategy standpoint to those that produce the most effective and most efficient outcome.
So we're really about trying to manage the overall drug/medical spend as we sort of take our approach to pharmacy management I think hep C is similar.
And as far as where they are in the trend I'll turn it back to Steve.
Sure.
So from -- we do expect higher utilization of these drugs in 2014.
We did see that in 2012 as well when we had the new introductions that came in mid 2011.
But that's obviously something that's part of our forward outlook.
It's contemplated in our pricing.
In terms of the implications on our trend we are talking basis point not points and it's fully reflected in our forward outlook.
With respect to Medicaid specifically just as the insurers' fee and other elements are components of cost it is an element that goes into our build-up.
It's an active part of our dialogue to the extent that we're covering pharmacy benefits in a state and it will be part of our beta process that Steve Nelson talked about.
So thank you.
I would say that that will conclude our comments today.
We remain intensely focused on the challenges and the opportunities of 2014 and 2015.
And we thank you for joining us and thank you for your continued interest in our enterprise.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
And have a wonderful day.
Good morning.
I'll be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here's some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
Federal Securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual result to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated April 17 2014 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
This morning we will review the first quarter results in the context of our full year objectives for 2014.
Objectives that include continuing to diversify our services and product offering continuing to develop and expand our capabilities and relationships and further strengthened and consistent fundamental execution and services to customers and consumers.
And we are working towards all these while new national healthcare policies begin to come into the place and new baselines for market behaviors and new market dynamics become realities.
We plan to deliver revenues in a range of $128 billion to $129 billion for the year produce earnings in the range $5.40 to $5.60 per share and generate cash flows from operations between $7.8 billion and $8.2 billion.
UnitedHealth Group UnitedHealthcare and Optum performed largely as we expected in the first quarter.
We remained in our plans for 2014 and as usual continue to work through more challenges and benefits for the moment.
Longer term we continue to more clearly see evidence for the growth opportunities for both UnitedHealthcare and Optum as we knew beyond the more negative immediate term impacts of the ACA and its implementation.
This is was really the first quarter a full scale operation under the ACA.
Everything else in the past three years has been more of a preamble.
The ACA's impacts on 2014 had been immediate and significant as we described at our Investor's conference.
Nondeductible insurance taxes ACA prescribed Medicare Advantage funding pull backs commercial underwriting changes and various other provisions cumulatively reduced our per share net earnings by nearly $0.30 for this quarter and sequestration cut an additional $0.05 in this quarter.
On a full year basis 2014 Medicare funding actions will cut roughly $0.45 per share beyond that.
This makes a grand total of about $1.50 per share and externally driven year-over-year pressure fully consistent with our view at our Investors conference in December.
The ACA impacts every major line item of our consolidated results and distorts comparisons virtually all performance ratio.
This will continue as the year's progresses a new regulatory and tax baselines are established and settled in but we think some very important early observations can be made about the ACA's first quarter introduction.
First consumers and benefits sponsors are showing by their actions the clear value they see in private sector managed care products and services.
The capabilities of the private sector healthcare community are significant and have proven to be highly adaptable to serving the needs and demands of consumers in all stages and situations of life as well as government and private benefit sponsors and the broader health system.
And ultimately there should be advances access to care and the healthcare system as a whole will become more effective and efficient and consistent overtime.
Early evidence of these is visible and will produce long-term growth opportunities for both UnitedHealthcare and Optum.
Let's review how this played out in the first quarter for UnitedHealth Group starting with UnitedHealthcare whose revenues grew $1 billion or 3.6% year-over-year to $29.3 billion led by membership growth in Medicaid.
Over the past 12 months alone UnitedHealthcare has implemented six new or renewed Medicaid contracts and grown to serve 395 000 new members.
In this past quarter we grew by 255 000 people driven by the expanded eligibility offered in and about half the States where we serve Medicaid beneficiaries as well as new membership in traditional categories.
We expect growth throughout the year and could well exceed the upper end of our outlook of $350 000 to $450 000 additional people served this year.
The Congressional Budget Office forecasted 12 million people will obtain coverage through Medicaid by the end of 2016 and we will endeavor to gain market share serving the needs of these beneficiaries and their State's sponsors.
Nationally managed Medicaid is also broadening to serve new patients with greater clinical needs like dual eligible.
We believe our integrated and in the market clinical model gives us distinct advantages in serving these higher growth; more complex areas.
Our model integrates behavioral pharmaceutical medical and social services with the focus on the 5% of the population that drives well over 50% of the total medical cost in the typical Medicaid program.
In Medicare we began the year with growth of 360 000 across all Medicare product categories.
As Part D sales were strong and Medicare Supplement also grew nicely.
Participation in our Medicare Advantage program was essentially flat down 5 000 people sequentially and well within the range we expected despite significant market exists and products network adjustments made in response to the 2014 Medicare Advantage rate cuts of more than 6%.
We continue to manage our Medicare Advantage products and cost structure with the local market level and we will stay focused on that task all this year and next; given the continued adverse funding climate for Medicare Advantage.
Commercial membership also began the year generally in line with our expectation with a sharp decrease in people served through fee-based relationship as well as some expected declined in risk-based business.
As expect our individual policy business declined this quarter as we decrease by 90 000 with the advent of the ACA.
In the commercial market we experienced a strong competitive period over early renewals for Legacy benefits where many small group customers renewed early to avoid community rating and ACA price increases.
These decisions were rational driving healthier groups to renew early.
While other groups took advantage of the community rating or that was the best course of action.
Over the last quarter we have seen intensified pricing in several markets including small group in New York a large market for us.
We believe several carriers there including new entrants our pricing well below cost and what we would view as unsustainable pricing levels.
If this climate continues we could see some further pressure on risk based membership beyond the ranges we anticipated this year.
And at Amil we are beginning to see clear signs of response and recovery from surgeon utilization caused by aggressive access standards imposed nationally by the Regulatory Authorities in mid-2013.
We continued to project a 6% commercial medical cost trend plus or minus 50 basis points for 2014.
First quarter usage benefited slightly from intense winter conditions across the mid-western and northeastern areas of the country.
Offsetting this item was the rapid launch of an effective and very expensive new hepatitis C therapy.
The aggressive US pricing practices on this has been well publicized and continues to be quite controversial.
We are working diligently to ensure this medication is applied under clinically appropriate standards.
Patients were treated across the Medicaid commercial and Medicare Part D categories that cost to more than $100 million to us in the quarter.
The Federal Government will bear significant expense in the Part D program because the high cost of this treatment causes the patient to quickly move through the donut hole into the 80% CMS reinsurance quarter.
Meanwhile State Medicaid Directors are at varying stages of concluding whether to include the medication on their approved state pharmacy list and if so how to pay for it.
Stepping back from these first quarter trends are full year commercial care ratio will see pressure caused by a combination of the revenue impact from stronger than expected early renewal activity in December at pre-ACA rates.
The under pricing dynamic in New York at higher than expected utilization and cost related hepatitis.
The size and diversity and United Health Group tends to mute the effect of the commercial variance on the consolidated care ratio but we expect this ratio could lean toward the higher end of the 80.5% plus or minus 50 basis point range we provided last December.
Before I turn to Optum I want to recognize some of our colleagues with us today who have taken on new roles at UnitedHealth Group.
All in keeping with our long standing philosophy of moving talented executives across the enterprise to broaden their experience and management depth.
Jack Larsen has moved from the Medicare business to head up our rapidly growing Optum Collaborative Care which includes our Care Delivery businesses a perfect transition given his background in Medicare and extensive M&amp;A background.
Steve Nelson has shifted from his role leading our local market oriented Medicaid business to heading our Medicare and Retirement operation where we are putting intense focus on market-by-market strategies around clinical care network alignment and quality [stars].
And Austin Pittman takes over at our Community &amp; State Medicaid business coming from his most recent assignment leading our overall UnitedHealthcare network and local commercial market leadership before that.
Turning now to Optum it is becoming more evident the capabilities we have collectively built in our services platform are increasingly recognized in the marketplace.
Optum continues to grow and mature quarter-by-quarter.
We continue to evolve to meet the needs of the market further integrate offerings strengthen and grow relationships and align our efforts to the most valuable and sustainable opportunities to make the healthcare system perform better.
More participants recognized Optum is in position to help customers engage their toughest healthcare challenges.
Our work assisting the healthcare.gov website in the last quarter of 2013 has led to new relationships new pipelines of potential work and new contracts with the spectrum of customers for 2014.
We expect further growth in government services this year continuing this first quarter's trend.
Our efforts to help our customers improve their end-to-end performance and their structural cost to move ahead with the launch of our Optum360 revenue management business with Dignity Health.
We are developing a pipeline of additional health systems and expect to add business to Optum360 as the year progresses.
Optum is seeing positive market response to its broad business process outsourcing capabilities as well.
Optum Health is aligned around five key growth areas; prevention intervention financial services distribution and care delivery.
Broad capabilities meeting market needs matched with an efficient agile customer focused organizational structure.
The relationships we are building leveraging these critical capabilities and they will be instrumental in Optum's future revenue and earnings growth as the consumer becomes a more significant buyer and decision-maker in healthcare.
OptumRx is working a strong prospect pipeline in pharmacy services.
Our distinctive focus on managing total cost by synchronizing information and care process across the medical lab and pharmaceutical continuum is driving significant interest.
We are only able to generate this interest as a result of the meaningful investments; we have made in OptumRx over the past couple of years.
And similarly we are making targeted investments in OptumHealth and OptumInsight to seek opportunities in areas such as consumer engagement consumer distribution services next generation analytics that combine administrative and clinical data at the scale 60 million people or more and next generation medical care review and compliance analytics.
We will also invest startup cost in the assimilation of each new Optum360 relationship.
This quarter earnings bear $60 million of these investments which will continue over the course of the year but somewhat more waited in the first half.
All of these resonate with one theme; new and sustained areas for growth by helping the system to perform better for everyone.
Turning to Optum performance for the quarter revenues grew 29% to $11.2 billion and earnings from operations grew 20% year-over-year to $650 million.
Operating margins decline slightly due to the exceptional growth of the lower margin OptumRx business as well as the planned investment we just discussed.
OptumRx led this quarters reported results with revenues up 43.5%.
Earnings from operations up 114.2% and operating margins expanding a full percentage point to 3.2%.
We filled 140 million adjusted scripts this quarter up 38% year-over-year.
OptumInsight had strong growth in government and sponsored services in the quarter.
At the same time they slowdown and hospital clinical compliance services pressured revenues and operating earnings year-over-year and sequentially.
As the Federal Government deliberated over medical necessity processes for Medicare it's so called Two-Midnight Rule.
At the same time our newly introduced compliance offering serving hospitals needs for clean medical necessity documentation for privately insured patients have seen accelerated growth in sales in and pipeline.
We expect OptumHealth and OptumInsight to increase in profitability as the year progresses accelerating into the second half.
All in Optum delivered a strong first quarter with improved earnings and capital returns as compared to last year and remains on pace to produce $3.1 billion to $3.2 billion in operating earnings this year.
As well as roughly one-third of UnitedHealth Group's cash flow from operations.
All while investing in the future growth in its business.
As a whole we have a solid start to the year against the increasing headwinds we described at our investors conference.
UnitedHealth Group's first quarter revenues grew nearly $1.4 billion or 4.5% to $31.7 billion and net earnings were at $1.10 per share fully in line with our expectation.
Cash flows from operations were strong at $1.4 billion up 34% year-over-year and a good start toward our full-year projection.
The biggest challenges in 2014 are the combination of nondeductible healthcare taxes and ACA mandated Medicare rate cuts.
On top of sequestration and the government's continued systematic under funding of Medicare Advantage.
Including the 2014 Medicare funding issue and other ACA provisions these impacted our first quarter results by well more than $0.35 per share and will pressure our full year net earnings by about $1.50 per share.
We expect second quarter earnings per share will growth this past quarter's results but as planned will come in below last year's reported second quarter which benefited from strong reserve development.
It did not bear some of the competitive commercial market pressures UnitedHealthcare faces today and like this quarter we will have substantial ACA effects.
Items we are watching including hepatitis C treatment cost the full recovery State Medicaid fees commercial risk-based membership New York and the overall performance of our Medicare business.
And we are always respectful of medical cost trend even though they are basically inline in the quarter.
As always we will strive to deliver the best possible result in both the short and longer term.
We expect our 2014 net earnings to land in the existing range of $5.40 to $5.60 per share and we mean that as a range.
The items we discussed this morning might serve temper ones thinking within that range.
Standing back from the number UnitedHealth Group faces an expansive long-term growth opportunity.
In the US alone there is the opportunity to approach and serve the more than 700 the Fortune 1 000 companies not yet our customers.
Today we serve more than 85 million people leaving more than 230 million Americans we do not touch.
There is a growing number of people in government sponsored programs who are yet to benefit from Managed Care.
There is significant upside potential in our PBM market share and there are multibillion dollar multi-year opportunities that links services technology and insight to fundamentally health-to-health system perform better for everyone.
Beyond the US we see the same growing opportunities.
As the challenges other national health system space around access control affordability and affected decision making are in fact the same ones we have here in the US even as these systems differ.
The level of a longer term success we achieve will depend on two things.
First an adaptive and innovative approach to applying our three long standing core competencies of clinical care organization and delivery.
Health information analysis insight and advanced enabling technology.
And second the effectiveness of our leaders in our organizational culture.
We serve in the sensitive social services arena in the early stage of important market changes and we believe success will come to those who can build trust serve with compassion and control costs; while driving higher quality outcomes.
We thank you for your time this morning and look forward to your questions.
So we will give you a second to get organized and we will pick up your question.
Thank you.
The floor is now open for questions at this time.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question is from Matthew Borsch from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Yes hi good morning.
Could you talk about the outlook for Medicare Advantage for 2015? I realized we have to get through this year firs but in light of the various changes that were made in finalization of the rate.
I know one of your competitors has put out a point estimate for the all in rate impact and was wondering if there was a range that you could offer on a similar basis? Yes sure I think in terms of a range.
First of all we would comment that the final rate notice did mitigate some of the originally proposed cuts for 2015 but in fact when that results is that rates were once again taken down somewhere in the order of maybe slightly over 3% and that really comes on the heels of overall funding decline of over 6% in the prior year and that's against arising overall medical cost trend.
So we would bracket that around let's say the 3.5% kind of range and honestly if that is somewhat disappointing we were hoping for and we are positive all in response and so we will be focused on working through and trying to mitigate that as we approach 2015 but I would bracket it in let's say 3% to 3.5% range.
If I could just ask for one clarification on that? Is that inclusive of the because it's not a rate factor the impact of the increase in the industry fee at least under the ACA provisions to-date? Yes that is an all in kind of what we see funding deficiency to Medicare for 2015.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Justin Lake from JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
Wanted to follow-up on the comments around 14 commercial MLR specifically if those coming toward the higher-end of the range? Can you tell us whether you think that would likely drive ETF to the lower end of what being your full year guidance or if you think there are other businesses that could were to offset that and what they might and then just quickly on the MLR side.
You mentioned the $100 million of hep C cost in the quarter.
Can you tell us what your original expectations were for hep C in Q1 and how you're currently expecting this cost to trend for the rest of the year thanks? It was a little gobbled on that second one.
Your second question is a $100 million related to what? I'm sorry $100 million of hep C cost I think you mentioned up on them.
I got it okay.
For the quarter how your expectations were for the end of the year for that versus $100 million and how you expect the trend for the rest of the year? I got it.
Well maybe the way to frame the care ratio and I will let Gail to drill and Dan Schumacher address this in more specifics but we saw pressure in the first quarter.
It is the first quarter those pressures are coming from a variety of sources.
We will endeavor and try to mitigate against that over the course of the year but we think it's appropriate to alert you to the fact that care ratio will feel pressure because of these factors.
And as you point out we have a very diverse business not only within the UnitedHealthcare platform but in the Optum platform and we have a number of ways to fight back against those pressures and we are endeavoring to do that is early in the year and so we are staying largely within the ranges and kind of giving you a color around where we see the pressure points.
And then in terms of hepatitis C Gail Dan? Sure good morning.
Justin.
On hepatitis C as Steve mentioned.
We saw $100 million of cost in the first quarter little more than that and that was across all of our benefits business.
So Medicare Medicaid and Commercial and I think what we are seeing in not in consistent with what folks are seeing across the industry which is higher pent up demand as there was more patients that were warehoused leading up to the launch hepatitis C vaccines.
And so we would expect that there would be some moderation and new patient volume as that initial pent up demand starts to wear off but I would tell you that obviously these are 12 week and 24 week treatment regimen.
So those folks that were introduced in the first quarter will carry forward into the second.
In terms of its relation to our expectation.
I won't say that's specifically other than to say that it's a multiple of what we had expected.
Thanks for the color.
Next question please?  Our next question is from Peter Costa from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong> Yes I would like to understand a little bit more about what you expect to do about the rising cost of hep C going forward as you mentioned moderating but you know when it becomes perhaps all [oral] towards to the end of the year.
You would to expect to reaccelerate again and in particular for next year.
So how you're going to price that into your businesses for next year do you expect States to reimburse this year or carve it out? So can you build on that a little bit and the other cost item that you talked about was in New York can you tell us? How you're going to respond in New York to the pricing pressure there? Sure as you point out.
How hep C is addressed really does vary across the businesses based upon the segment of business that we are in so we will try to respond to several of those and maybe we will start out with Gail.
Sure good morning.
Let me first address the hep C then we will talk about the issue in New York.
I think as you mentioned first the hep C therapies as you know are very effective and one of the things that we are doing is working to ensure that appropriate clinical protocols and standards are in place but as noted the price is exceptionally high and as Steve said in his opening comments that controversial and it's putting a lot of pressure on States CMS and in terms of our day as well as our employer sponsor so the cost has to be addressed.
As we think about actions.
In the Medicaid space particularly.
First and foremost we are working with each of our states to ensure that we are aligned with their expectations on their PDL and how they want to handle that and also giving them ideas on risk mitigation from a cost perspective what we are paying for the Medicaid it is the cost to the program that wasn't priced in.
So we are working with our States to figure out that funding gap.
We do expect it as a cost of delivering service in that space and would expect that will be reimbursed but the timing is what is uncertain now because accelerated very quickly and as Dan said in his opening remarks about this because warehousing and the rapid launch this is something everyone's dealing with across the States right now.
In terms of the issue on New York.
Let me open up a few comments I'll just Jeff Alter our CEO of our Commercial Business to comment.
I think Steve highlighted in New York we have a somewhat I think unique situation in the small group market in particular where there are new entrants as well as existing competitors pricing below what we believe is the sustainable cost structure and pricing below what we believe our cost.
We've always maintained pricing discipline.
We're a market share leader in New York we've had a long history of several decades of consistent performance in that market but we do think that there is a market correction needed.
We are going to stay very disciplined in our pricing but again because of the dynamic that's going on there.
It's something that Steve and we highlighted in our opening comments.
Hi Peter.
Good morning it's Jeff Alter.
Just add a little color to that.
As most people are probably aware we've served that market place successfully for couple of decades.
We know that marketplace really well.
We've got leading economics we understand the pricing and we really believe at this point that market has got to come back to a more sustainable level.
We are comfortable with our pricing in that marketplace.
It's just that others I'm chosen to well below our pricing and that's going to create an issue in that market place.
We will talk to the regulator about it.
But in the short run we are going to maintain our disciple like we have on that discipline that serve just well on that market place but it will put pressure as we think about '14 as we pace into the other quarters in '14.
It will put some pressure on risk-based our membership.
Thank you.
Next question.
Our next question is from Dave Windley from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
I wanted to shift over to Optum.
Curious how you see your margins progressing in Optum through the year.
You mentioned ramping Optum360 making investments there.
I know you clearly need to see a pretty substantial ramp up over the course of the year to get to that margin guidance range.
So interested in progression there please.
We do expect that Optum is performing exceptionally well and doing it while balancing investments and the assimilation of new business.
So it's impressive performance John Larry? John can start and then I'll [indiscernible].
Yes so just Dave to lead off I'd say both overall Optum in the individual segment results were in line with the expectations.
I think kind of part of what you're alluding to that Dave is within OptumHealth and OptumInsight earnings were down year-over-year about 4% 5% respectively here.
And what we are doing here is really investing for the future.
I would say it's centerpiece of one Optum chapter two.
It's all about investing for our future growth.
Well I can draw the parallels to OptumRx and what we did there over couple last few years investing several hundred million dollars into that business and you can now see the results as we are kicking off into 2014.
As we look at '14 for ourselves here in OptumInsight and OptumHealth.
We'd be looking to invest over $200 million in those businesses this year.
All about next generation clinical administrative data analytics collaborative care.
Our Optum360 business.
We are consistent with kind of look we provided at Investor Day and back to your direct question on progression looking for 40-60 split in terms of earnings progression first half second half.
So get direct to that.
So Dave it's Larry Renfro but let me make a couple of comments.
As John said Steve said we are investing obviously in future growth.
This is all part of the one Optum plan that we put in place three years ago.
Where we are continuing to balance growth investments and cost management.
I won't go back over what John was talking about in terms of the some of the examples but I will mention the PBM because that is the perfect example of something we invested in for a couple of years and we are now starting to see the pay off of that.
I'd also tell you that you could refer to healthcare.gov and the way that we've been working the Federal Government as well as the State as we are starting to partner that's part of one of our disciplines of larger and deeper relationship and we believe that's going to pan out but the most important thing probably is that $60 million of expense in the first quarter was a planned expense.
We haven't [DDA] from our plan and we will reset at this point in time.
I think you can look at both business segments and see that the revenues are up.
I would tell you that OI or the OptumInsight backlog is up 18% to $7.2 billion and I can also tell you that OptumHealth and OptumInsight's pipeline is 58%.
So all this is planned we are pretty comfortable where we are set with a solid start to the year and believe that will be strong for the rest of the year.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Sarah James from Wedbush.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I wanted to follow-up here on [ZUBSOLV].
First if you could kind of frame it so the $100 million is about 1 200 cases.
Could you split that between the three segments then to follow-up on pricing? Is it currently priced into your commercial product for this year? How does factoring it into Part D work and then Gail said that she expected [ZUBSOLV] to be reimbursed for Medicaid does that retracted to the drug launch or more going forward? I think we will respond kind of in more general terms.
We are certainly not going to get into case specific across segments.
So absent that I think we can give you a response.
Good morning Sarah.
Dan Schumacher again with respect to the new patient volume that we're seeing.
We are seeing the highest volume on a percentage basis in Medicaid lock as you would expect as well as in Medicare and then follow-up by commercial but when you translate that through to the impact obviously Medicare is lower because of the reinsurance aspects of Part D.
So that gives you a sense of where the volume is coming from with regard to the reimbursement.
I'd ask Austin Pittman to provide some perspective.
Sure.
Thanks Dan.
So again as Gail mentioned we are working diligently with all of our States first to get in alignment with their coverage decisions.
Second on risk mitigations strategies where we are covering again.
We do expect it to that is a funding gap that will be solved certain issue of timing and we would expect that to be solved for the contract period.
Does that mean retroactive? Yes.
Yes okay.
Thank you.
Sarah it's John Penshorn.
Just I ought for caution on estimating number of people because as Steve mentioned the Federal Government is also covering some of this cost through their funding for the Part D program catastrophic coverage.
Got it.
Thank you.
Next question please? Our next question is from Christine Arnold from Cowen.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong> Hi there.
At your Investor Day you mentioned that you were targeting 10 or more really large customer relationships by 2016 within Optum and I hear you about the backlog and the pipeline.
Could you talk about where you see those large relationships progressing in and when we might see some of those? Sure.
We will respond in general terms obviously it's sensitive in terms of these things are active in the market today.
So we don't comment ever on specific clients or opportunities but in broader terms.
Larry do you want to? Sure I will start and I might ask Dirk and I might ask Andy and [Bill Miller] all three to comment on this.
We obviously are talking a lot about what we are doing with Optum360 and that marketplace that is a growth market place for us.
The pipeline as Steve said we from competitive standpoint would not really want to talk about right now.
Especially what we are doing on the revenue cycle management side.
So I will ask Bill in a second to talk about that.
I would tell you on the PBM side.
We continue to grow we continue to see a large number of our RSP's that we are participating in and I ask Dirk to speak to that and on the government side.
Obviously what we were doing with the States what we were doing with the Federal Government and some of the programs that we are involved in our deals.
But also we are concentrating in the what I call our collaborative care area that's our care delivery organization.
We are going to beat that up bit so I might ask Jack Larsen to start with that and just give a little feel for what we are doing there.
Thanks Larry.
Good morning Christine.
Jack Larsen.
We would view the opportunity to investing our line with some of the better performing primary care physician oriented physician groups and other specialty groups around the country as really central to Optum taking on the mission of some of the toughest challenges of the healthcare system.
For example today in our local care delivery organization.
We shouldn't think about as our broadly speaking our physician groups.
We serve in 19 markets today and we serve just a little over 1 million people as patients.
I would expect this to continue to grow through some of those larger more comprehensive relationships that your questions sort of pointing at as well as grow it organically and at the continued use of M&amp;A which I think we're pretty good at there.
Well maybe Andy you could talk about the government.
Sure hi Christine.
Very quickly we've been pleased to have the opportunity to serve both Federal and State Government.
I think what they've seen is something that's [indiscernible] of the answer to your question is they've hopefully seen the technology the general healthcare and the execution capability that an organization like Optum can provide.
I think that we will build relationships both at the State level as well as take our technology out commercially in a bigger and bigger way really substantial relationship where we become a more embedded part of our clients.
So maybe Dirk on the PBM? Yes on the PBM hi Christine.
Our pipeline's up a big year-over-year and this really on top of a nice strong sales showing last year.
If you look at final [spinings] we've attended.
We are certainly getting our ad backs with a big customers.
For example this year I've already attended two final [spinings] where opportunities where in the 0.5 million member range.
We are certainly getting our opportunities.
We are excited about our pipeline although I will tell you we are really still early in the season at lot [TBD].
Two more areas I'll ask Mike [indiscernible] and this goes back to Steven's comment in his opening remark about the 700 organizations that we do not do business with today.
Obviously on our consumer solution side we are starting to really target.
So Mike maybe you might want to comment on those? Sure this is Mike [indiscernible].
So from a employer perspective there's 700 of the Fortune 1 000 that Optum doesn't serve in any way today.
We think there is a large opportunity out there for us to take a lot of our consumer solutions directly to those and wrap those services around them.
So we are in ramping up the sales force.
We are in conversations starting those conversations with the number of these large employers.
We are also starting conversations with a number of associations and other places to try to get to consumers with product and services that we think will really empower them to take ownership at their healthcare in new ways.
So I'll end with [Bill Miller].
Bill could you talk a little bit about our hospital market.
Yes so Christine.
Thanks a lot.
There's three things that I'll touch on and where these big relationships will continue to grow and foster and our three basic areas as we mentioned.
Optum360 and we are in several negotiations with the next phase of clients we obviously aren't going to expose those right now but I'd also remind you that business platform is adding clients every day.
They may not be the big large multi-year arrangements and many of their if you look at our backlog going 18% to $7.2 billion that's a function of those tools that we have out in the marketplace of subsets of a full blown and the [NDL] being absorbed by many many clients on a quarterly basis.
And those set the stage for large arrangements down the line and some of those are measured in the $10 million to $15 million arrangements over the course of three years to five years but we will see other very large ones added over the year and then I think we are doing far more work on the ACO side helping hospitals reengineer themselves to become ready for fee-for-value.
So we've had several large transactions in that space and we will continue to see those through the year and then finally the other area emphasis for us both in our payer provider.
Andy touched on it in the government market is our continue ability to impact the market place from a BPO standpoint.
With our technology scale with our state-of-the-art technology and ready to go technology along with our consulting services.
We are finding acceptance in the marketplace whether it be amongst payers or providers to slide in the positions where we are really managing large chunks of there if you will core business so that they can focus on taking care of their members.
And with our backgrounds both on the payer and provider side.
We end up being a pretty suitable partner in those really game changing decisions that governments payers and providers are making and more consistent basis as margin pressures and talent pressures continue to mount the market place.
LLC</strong> Great.
Thank you.
So I might complete that very comprehensive response by saying if you listen Optum's challenges are out more around abundance.
There are significant opportunities getting those relationships started right recognizing.
They're going to be substantially larger than the relationships we've had in the past that they're going to engage a broader spectrum of services and that they're much longer term.
We are trying to be thoughtful about these approaches in each of our businesses there as well as continuing to make sure that we are investing.
So that we are delivering ever better value.
So they're navigating in that those kind of waters right now which are really great waters to be in at the moment.
So next question.
Your next question is from A.J.
Rice from UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks a lot everybody.
I guess I was thinking you hadn't really said much about your views about with how the whole public exchange for share process played out and now that.
We are done with the open enrollment.
You got to think fairly quickly about what you're going to do with respect to 2015 give us any updated thoughts and assessments of how it played out and what your posture will be for next year? Sure.
I'll have Gail and others to respond principally to that.
We were involved from the Optum side so we do have some perspectives from that.
it is still very very early in the life of the exchanges and second year in terms of how they will evolve will be effectively somewhat by what I call a lot of spontaneous change over the course of the first year implementation which we understand that does require some consideration and calibration as we go but Gail do you want to start? Sure.
Good morning.
As you know we had a very modest footprint in 2014 and as we've said and still believe we do have buyers to increase that participation in 2015.
There's a lot happening in that we are in the process of doing our evaluation.
Obviously we are looking at how the markets and products are regulated.
The networks that we would put in place but there are some things that we did learn in the first part of the market for us that the size of the overall market is positive and that the configuration of products around sober is also positive for the market and that there is now some experience and a desire to be to keep the exchanges stable.
So we don't know much about second year pricing.
We do enough first year pricing still again at this stage just reiterate that our [bias] is to increase our participation to '15 and we will share more with you as those decisions are made over the coming months.
Okay and great thanks.
You know I'd also observe that while we will if we engaged in readiness.
You really don't have to commit until September I think.
So we have time to see how this plays out a bit.
Okay.
Next question please.
Your next question is from Ralph Giacobbe from Crédit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
Just wanted to go back to the comments on intensified pricing.
I guess ones where I make sure is it just in New York or you're seeing it.
Your startup in other markets and then second did you say that in New York it was coming from new entrants and existing competitors and then just the last piece.
You're just trying to sort of tying in on how related it is to the public exchanges plans maybe pricing that would encourage dumping or is it or are you saying it's just sort of head-to-head off exchange sort of land grab.
Thanks.
I think that Gail and Jeff are perfectly prepared for this.
Good morning Ralph.
A couple of things because there is number of questions embedded in there.
Let me start first with your questions around exchanges in early renewals.
One of the first things is that we've had a very successful early renewals of our small group customers in the fourth quarter that clearly is a big positive for us going forward.
In terms of the New York issue I'm going to let Jeff specifically address it.
We talked about it but it is a unique to New York issue and yes it is both existing competitors well as new entrants but there is some unique dynamics in that market.
You brought a question around what's happening in the competitiveness of the overall market.
As Steve said in his opening comments we have seen in the first quarter again after very successful early renewals of small groups and intensified pricing in some slack markets that is having an impact on our fully insured risk because we have stayed very disciplined in our pricing.
So that's really the dynamic that's going on it is select market.
And there is dynamic of the early renewal that occurred that having impact on that.
New York has some unique characteristics and we wanted to point that up because of those in your characteristics and I'll ask Jeff again to comment on that.
Good morning Ralph.
Yes actually when you think of that New York market place it was probably one of the least affected by the ACA as it is been community rated.
Some fairly stable from '13 going into '14 but there were some new entrants into that market place that in our opinion clearly are underpriced what the cost structure is in New York not only our cost structure but certainly their cost structure.
And then over the last few years we've had competitors that have left the New York market place that chose to reenter the market place in January '14 and we see those competitors also under priced for what the economics would call for it.
So next question please.
Our next question is from Scott Fidel from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks I know it's clearly very early here but just wanted to get your thoughts on expectations for the 2016 MA rates just sort of thinking about some of the factors that benefited the 2015 rates at CMS said that they may revisit for example freezing the move to the risk adjustment model then also delaying their proposal one on the HRA proposals.
You know I there was hope and expectations at the 2016 MA rates we can see the sky sort of clear there but given some of those factors that I mentioned just interested in your thoughts here on 2016 MA rates? You know I'm not sure that we offer kind of public perspective on future rate settings that we don't really have any control over.
We are aware of the factors and many others that go into thinking in terms of rate setting.
We are still digesting 2015 and I really am not going to comment about that rate setting process.
If you look back our [batting] average on that would be pretty poor.
So I don't think we are going to set into that I would just speculate that there is been pretty steady funding pressure in terms of the Medicare Advantage program that it is been hit severely by the insurance taxes.
It's been effected by the funding posture in various ways that CMS develops the rates each year and this is now been several years against a moderate but still rising overall cost trend.
So we will be very watchful and careful with respect to continuing to advocate for fair funding to the Medicare Advantage segment.
It's a segment that serves 15 million seniors it continues to grow.
It continues to perform exceptionally well particularly in comparison to the fee-for-service program.
So we would be advocates of thinking that programs really should be more the future of Medicare and funded appropriately for that purpose and that it affects seniors.
Our posture there hasn't really changed and it won't change in '16 and we will be hopeful that to you know the funding perspectives take that into consideration going forward.
Beyond that I really can't really respond to your question.
Okay thanks.
Your next question is from Christian Rigg from Susquehanna.
Your line is open.
LLLP</strong> Good morning thanks for taking my question.
Just want to make sure I understand the messaging on the Hep C sorry to come back to that but you know Dan I know you said percentage wise you're seeing the most volume in the government segments.
But in the press release the only area where you're specifically highlighted is in the commercial side.
So is it fair to assume that sort of the greatest area of surprise has occurred in commercial or there is been across the board.
Thanks.
Good morning Chris.
It's Dan.
We've been surprised on the volume the pent up demand across all three businesses and maybe I'll step through the Commercial Care ratio and how that goes into the consolidated and how you think about Medicare and Medicaid to put it into context around the pieces.
So from as you look at the Commercial Care ratio it was higher this quarter than we had expected and there's really two pieces two it.
One obviously Hep C and the other element is the early renewals.
So we saw greater volume of early renewals and so customers choosing to stay with their existing plan typically healthier and younger and that led to less premium.
So those are two factors that were really influencing the commercial outcome and then when you blend that together with Medicare and Medicaid which had pressure from Hep C but overall are performing well in line with our expectations that meets the impact at a consolidated level.
So hopefully that provides greater color on the implications inside each for the businesses.
LLLP</strong> Understood.
Thanks.
And I wouldn't take any undue significance to the order.
We just merely talked about commercial first and got it in there first there was no intent there.
Next question please? Our next question is from Sheryl Skolnick from CRT Capital Group.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
I have to say to put this in context $0.35 worth of earnings pressure to come up with this decent quarter with hard work on a big organization and it's appreciated and I respect it very much.
The question I have to get away from the important detail of Hep C and some of the other items is to step back and perhaps take a look at the bigger picture of the company for a second.
I noticed that for example you spent $345 million if my numbers are correct this quarter on acquisition.
You're spending another $200 million on investments in the two Optum businesses Health and Insight in order to create platforms in structure and opportunity for further growth but what I'm really I'm trying to get at it is what else can you tell us or share with us about your thoughts on capital deployment.
Whether it be acquisitions or investment in the business or indeed dividend policy and share repurchase that we should be looking for as not so much offset but positioning the company for growth this year as well as in the out years.
I offer a response that probably won't be very surprising and then ask Dave if he has any comments.
I would – our capital postures have been changed and in the broadest sense and they're all oriented towards balance of building for the future in continuing to grow and diversify and enterprise in a thoughtful and logical way and then making sure that we are returning capital to shareholders in a efficient as well as balanced way.
So we will continue to invest organically actually first and foremost and you can see those investments play out in our Optum business and there are also investments in the UnitedHealthcare business and I would also offer that a lot of our internal capital spending as you set in the financials are particularly related to technology in continuing to advance in a refine a better and more modern health system that we can propagate across the country.
We continue to balance that with external growth and we continue to maintain a disciplined appetite to continue to grow and expand our business where we see opportunities to either expand or position a market share that we are looking to pursue market position or secondly cultivate a capability and much of our investment is around bringing capabilities into [bear] and adding them to our portfolio.
Optum is a great example of this and our technology is its wealth.
And then lastly to return capital by way of a balance between dividends which we have been advancing strongly and will continue to take an orientation to make sure that we are advancing them to a market pay out position and share buyback.
Those have served us well and they've been very consistently applied and it provides a nice balance in terms of being able to continue to advance expand and diversify the business and capture that growth which is really the sustaining longer term growth and opportunity as well as maintaining a discipline over capital efficiency and maintain appropriate and hopefully accretive capital returns and earning returns.
Having that be virtually impossible to say anything in addition to our shareholders.
Dave Wichmann [indiscernible] for a couple of additional comments.
First probably as you've seen in this quarter.
We had a nice cash flow in the quarter particularly compared to last year and we are managing cash flows and our returns on invested capital very hard and in very disciplined way.
The increase in cash flows for this year to the $7.8 billion to $8.2 billion level be invested as Steve discussed.
I think you've seen that we had a very strong repurchase period in the first quarter here.
Set 3 billion and 3.5 billion in shares repurchase through 2014 but clearly we are on track towards the upper end of that range at this stage.
In the spirit of continuing to return capital to shareholders.
As you know each of the last three years we've increased our dividend by 30% or more that is something that we are committed to reevaluate in periodically.
We really look at the outlook of our business the capital requirements of our business and then also what our peer benchmarks are I don't think it's news to anybody that we have some room to improve there.
On the M&amp;A front you notice there's a relatively modest investments but I think strategically important because they're aligned to what we said at our investor day.
They're really oriented more towards our Optum businesses where we see a stronger growth prospects turn these growth prospects and in that case.
We think we've acquired the leading consumer digital health platform in the country but in addition to that.
We continue to extend our reach internationally with relatively modest but strategically important investments particularly in South America where we think there's a wonderful opportunity long-term to grow.
So with that I'll end.
Thank you.
Thank you for the question.
Next question please Our next question is from Josh Raskin from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks appreciate you guys taking the question here at the end.
So I really just want to drill in to this commercial MLR ratio and make sure we are not overreacting to New York and a couple of things.
The good guys in the quarter to me would be the ACA fee.
So it would be helpful if you could tell what the actual ACA fee was and maybe by segment that would be particularly helpful and then the impact of whether it looks as though with your payables up four times as much as your premium sequentially.
You're probably just assuming that utilization comes back and we will figure that out when we get to see March April claims.
And then on the bad side hep C is $100 million of 36 basis points.
Obviously not all of that is commercial and so I'm assuming maybe that's 10 basis points.
So that certainly is not getting above your range and New York State I calculated you know about 7% your overall premium.
So you know every 100 basis points there is seven bip.
So I'm struggling to figure out what's going to drive you above the 80.5% plus or minus 50 basis point range in Commercial and really want to just make sure that New York is not bigger than sort of 7% impact or something that I'm calculating.
Well we'll respond I think more in general terms and I agree there shouldn't be an overreaction and I would also agree that it is a portfolio of issues and pressures and we are kind of alerting you to that portfolio.
So that is kind of context.
Dan do you want to respond? Sure.
Good morning Josh.
It's Dan.
You add a lot a pieces to that.
First I want to clarify you talked about the commercial loss ratio.
The commercial loss ratio guidance is 79.2% plus or minus 50 basis point.
The consolidated loss ratio guidance is 80.5% plus or minus 50 basis points.
And so as we look inside the Commercial business.
We have two principal pressures the bigger of which is the early renewal impact and having less premium.
Good long-term thing it impacts our premium in near term and then the second in the order of impact is the Hepatitis C impact and when you put that together that gets muted on the Medicare and Medicaid side because they don't have those other dimensions we are talking about other than the Hep C.
And our consolidated basis that might suggest that a loss ratio may lean towards the higher end of the range.
That's about also I think ACA fees.
Our fees in the quarter we're in the range of about $450 million on an expense basis and then obviously from a reimbursement standpoint we have reimbursement in the commercial business which is higher because it has insurer fees and the reinsurer's fees.
We have less in Medicaid because it's just the insurer's fee and then there isn't a mechanism in Medicare in premium to recover that.
So hopefully that gives you some more context around the pieces.
Okay so you didn't even mention as a pressure in commercial overall now.
Is that because it's not big enough in terms of magnitude.
That's more of an impact on the enrollment.
So you look at a risk based enrollment and some of the pressure we are seeing there and potential forward that's more a commentary on the enrollment and less on the loss ratio.
Okay.
So I guess I'm still struggling to understand the commercial ratios 79.2% plus or minus 50 basis point seeing impact of more than 50 basis points.
Again I know hep C is small of the early renewals I assume have to be a huge impact then much bigger than you guys were expecting.
It's a very meaningful impact on the early renewal side we saw more than two times the volume we had expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But again also a good thing in terms of it positions us and how it sustains that members and does it for a good period.
So I think while there is resulting pressure.
The reality is I think a very good business decision and a good outcome for us.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Right and no impact from weather then because that wasn't mentioned.
I would tell you as we look at weather in the quarter.
It was a very smallish impact.
As you look which days were the heaviest in relation to what we see a normal patterns as you look at where our densities are from a population perspective.
It wasn't particularly meaningful.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thanks.
But you've a very good list Josh.
You were listening very attentively and but I think we will conclude our Q&amp;A session for this morning as always.
There an opportunity for you to talk to John and Beth and so forth through the course of the day.
I just might sum up by saying UnitedHealth Group Optum and UnitedHealthcare are tracking to the plans we shared with you.
As we told you in December.
We fully expect the challenging conditions throughout 2014 and we are working through the headwinds of ACA implementations the Medicare cuts comparative market dynamics etc.
we would have had an underlying growth rate of more than 20% absent the impact of ACA taxes in the regulatory provision.
We believe we have the right plans and plays to deliver on our commitments and we know the people of this company have the talent the experience the innovation and the drive and are determined to succeed.
So we thank you again for joining us.
We will see you next quarter and this concludes this morning's call.
Thank you.
That concludes today's program.
You may now disconnect at any time and have a wonderful day.
Good morning.
I'll be your conference operator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here's some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
Federal Securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated July 17 2014 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
This morning we will review our first half 2014 performance within the context of the goals we set for this year and the opportunities we see going forward.
We see the next 18 months as important given that by January 2016 the ACA will largely be in place and we will be entering an election cycle that will set the stage for shaping the next phases of health reforms.
For decades the trend has been for greater private sector engagement in meeting ever increasing national healthcare needs.
These include the foundation of what is today Medicare Advantage the launch of Medicare Part D drug benefits the formation of accountable care organizations steady migration of Medicaid to managed care the expansion of benefit coverage to the uninsured under ACA exchanges and expanded Medicaid programs and the improvements to the healthcare.gov and many state based exchanges.
UnitedHealth Group businesses have participated strongly in each of these developments and we remain focused on making these efforts successful and sustainable as they continue to evolve and settle into the fabric of our national healthcare system.
We continue to execute steadily on that change agenda and we believe an improving environment in 2016 and beyond will support acceleration on our earnings growth rate.
This morning we are raising our 2014 revenue outlook to $130 billion from the previous forecasts of $128 billion to $129 billion.
We are strengthening our 2014 earnings projection to a tighter range of $5.50 to $5.60 per share.
The increasing earnings momentum we expect in the second half of 2014 should position us to grow both revenues and earnings per share in 2015.
Advancing our performance in this 18 month timeframe will remain challenging but achievable anchored by strong Medicaid growth steadily strengthening Medicare and international performance deeper entry into new more established public exchange markets and continuing strong growth and earnings momentum at Optum.
These elements are visible as well in second quarter results reported today.
In the second half of 2014 UnitedHealth Group grew revenues 7% to $32.6 billion and earned $1.42 per share.
Optum contributed nearly 30% of our enterprise operating earnings this quarter.
Solid cash flows from operations of $1 billion for the quarter and $2.4 billion for the first half of the year were approximately one times net income in line with our 2013 patterns.
As our strongest cash flows come in the back half of the year we continue to project a range of $7.8 billion to $8.2 billion in cash flows for full year 2014.
Reviewing our results in more detail starting with UnitedHealthcare.
Second quarter revenues grew 6% year-over-year to $30.1 billion.
The quarter featured earnings from operations of $1.8 billion driven by a strong operating margin of 6.1% even with the growing mix of public and senior sector businesses.
UnitedHealthcare is seeing significant and accelerating growth in Medicaid.
380 000 more people in the quarter and 635 000 through the first half of the year.
Coming from expanded access to Medicaid in about half the states we serve the launch of Florida's planned Medicaid expansion and core program growth from already established markets and programs.
In Medicare we grew to serve more than 400 000 more people across all products in the first half of 2014.
A very solid and balanced performance considering the market actions we needed to take last year in response to reduced Medicare program funding from CMS.
In the core senior medical products of Medicare Advantage and Medicare supplemental benefits we have grown the number of seniors we serve each year for than a decade and this year should be no exception.
There is no question the private sector provides significant value to Medicare beneficiaries.
Medicare has been and will continue to be a growth business at UnitedHealthcare.
We are privileged to serve one out of every five American seniors.
Today we serve 3 million people in Medicare Advantage plans and 12 million across all product types.
We expect to deliver overall Medicare growth for years to come driven by favorable demographic trends and our strong local market cost and value positions supported by deeply integrated Optum resources in pharmacy services primary care delivery health calls data analytics and compliance.
Our Medicare Advantage business works with senior focused care providers under rising levels of well designed shared risk and performance based payment arrangements to deliver more effective clinical management in concert with well-targeted and executed home visits.
From the seniors' perspective we offer market leading access to quality care across a broad spectrum of venues combined with the attractive benefits under strong brands with convenient broad-based distribution.
Commercial membership continued to track with recent trends.
Pulling back in risk-based products as we remain focused on pricing discipline and endeavoring to strike the right balance in protecting margin and giving back some past growth.
In self-funded products our momentum is steadily strengthening.
We are winning national account business and retaining key customers we are privileged to serve.
We are pleased to return to serve as a core benefit option in the State of Georgia in 2015.
Customers are still announcing final decisions and our pipeline is much stronger than this time last year.
We feel positive about our January 2015 position at this early stage.
In the individual market we plan to grow next year as we expand our offerings to as many two dozen state exchanges.
This approach is consistent with our long stated plan to take a prudent first year position and then build and expand in 2015 and 2016 as these markets become more established.
By participating moderately this year and then watching closely and listening we have learned about pricing networks regulatory structures distribution and the consumers mindset regarding public exchanges.
These data points help and form our positioning for 2015 which should be a better risk vintage for the public exchanges.
We believe public exchange markets must be sustainable on their own so our participation will not overly rely on risk corridors or assumptions under risk sharing provisions.
The Congressional budget office estimates that more than 75% of the exchange market is yet to develop.
And we believe there will likely be meaningful membership activity in the market after the initial experience of this year and as second year pricing is presented.
So we plan to grow steadily from this point forward advancing our participation in a measured manner in public exchanges in 2015 2016 and beyond.
Bringing together this year's developments across these various product categories our original forecast for U.S.
consumers served is proving fairly accurate in total with greater incremental losses in full risk commercial benefits which we discussed last quarter offset by exceptional growth in Medicaid which should come in well in excess of 800 000 people this year.
Turning to Brazil.
Amil has seen clear signs of steady recovery from a surge in utilization beginning in the last half of 2013 in response to aggressive new government mandated access standards.
Our premium rates are improving and are catching up to the increased levels of medical services.
We are deploying capital to continue building out Amil's franchises in to Rio Sao Paulo in northeastern Brazilian market which nicely benefitted our membership numbers this quarter with 110 000 net growth.
In our view Brazil remains the most fertile market for health benefits and services outside the U.S.
and we expect our focus and efforts in this large high potential market will reward our shareholders for years to come.
At UnitedHealthcare we continue to project a 6% commercial medical cost trend plus or minus 50 basis points for 2014.
Our medical costs remain inline with our plan and remain moderate.
The consolidated medical care ratio for the second quarter was 81.6% 10 basis points higher than last year despite less reserve development and a shift in the mix of our business towards government programs resulting in upward pressure in the ratio year-over-year.
These factors were mostly offset by 100 basis point reduction from the implementation of billing of the ACA fees and taxes.
Second quarter results were led by the public and senior sector where revenues from federal and state based programs continued to develop positively.
Public and senior sector earnings are running slightly favorable to our original 2014 outlook.
We are constructively supporting innovative ways to universally improve the quality and affordability of healthcare for consumers.
In one example we and several other healthcare companies are collaborating with the not-for-profit Healthcare Cost Institute to develop and provide free access to online healthcare transparency tools that offer consumers the most comprehensive and accurate information about the price and quality of healthcare services so individuals can make more informed decisions about their health and healthcare.
HCCI's transparency tool will be available in January 2015 and HCCI plans to advance more free services for consumers and other key healthcare stakeholders in the quarters and years to come.
Last fall we took a more intense focus on improving our Medicare stars performance for Medicare Advantage.
We made changes in people organizational alignment business processes and funding and resource allocation which we believe are yielding positive results.
We project our stars performance for 2015 payment year will be better than expected and will steadily improve in 2016 over 2015 and even more meaningfully in 2017 and '18 creating a steady multiyear upwards progression.
Our commitment is to maintain a baseline of no fewer than 80% of our seniors enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans rated four stars or higher every year.
At Optum we are tracking to deliver record revenues and profits again this year driven by market demand for our broad portfolio of capabilities and solutions.
Second quarter results are on plan with Optum's margins on course to strengthen again in 2014.
We expect margins will reach approximately 7% this year even as our pharmacy services business grows at an accelerated pace.
These advances are consistent with our original forecast last fall and Optum's 8% by 2016 commitment.
We remain focused on building a scalable end-to-end services platform.
Healthcare system participants are beset with more complex challenges then they have ever faced.
Their needs have grown well beyond the standalone product offerings that are characteristic of this fragmented market.
Optum has integrated services and capabilities to better meet and anticipate the emerging needs of the market whether around advanced analytics and population health deeply integrating pharmacy and medical management for more effectively delivering and documenting clinical care.
These markets each represent multibillion dollar growth opportunities unified for customers in a flexible modern comprehensive and fully scaled services platform.
The growth in revenue backlog and pipeline and the increasing number of larger deeper and more sophisticated Optum relationships demonstrates steady progress in converting these opportunities into revenues and provides visibility and near-term growth and an indication of strong long-term future we see for this business.
At the same time Optum continues to have opportunities to improve its basic operating performance.
We continue to better integrate and align internally focusing on delivering higher value products and services with greater efficiency better leveraging resources and competencies and information analytics technology and clinical care and improving our cost structure and operational efficiency.
These efforts are equally important to achieving our long-term earnings goals.
Continued investment remains central to Optum's long-term growth.
The quarter carried $80 million in investment costs as we deepened capabilities in areas such as consumer engagement tools and distribution services next generation analytics that uniquely combine administrative and clinical data at scale next generation medical care review and compliance analytics and services and international versions of product and services that have become established here in the U.S.
We will be investing startup costs in major Optum360 relationships and Optum technology outsourcing arrangements and moving forward on services focused to the needs of targeted international markets.
These investments continue throughout the year but should have less noticeable effects on results in the fourth quarter of 2014 as Optum's overall growth and performance accelerates and we benefit from the impact of the more seasonal businesses.
In the second quarter Optum's revenues grew 28% to $11.7 billion.
Earnings from operations grew 23% year-over-year to $728 million.
Operating margins declined slightly to 6.2% due to the planned investments just discussed and the exceptional growth of the OptumRx business.
OptumRx again led this quarter's performance.
Revenues grew 42%.
Earnings from operations doubled while operating margins expanded a full percentage point to 3.6%.
We process more than 150 million adjusted scripts this quarter up 30% year-over-year.
Our cost to fill a mail order script decreased 30% over the past year and we expect to drive increased consumer value through higher volumes of mail order business.
We had exceeded our goal of 1 million new consumers served from business awards a spectrum of customers in 2014 and have some early awards in hands for 2015 with good a prospect pipeline.
This growth is additive to the natural organic growth led by the in-sourcing of UnitedHealthcare's pharmacy business over the past two years.
OptumInsight's growth was again led by strong performance in government sponsored services.
OptumInsight is providing services to five separate state exchanges in addition to its continuing role with the federal exchange.
By the midyear point computer-assisted coding offerings from our Optum360 Revenue Management Organization were installed in more than 50 customers who operate more than 220 facilities.
And the pipeline continues to grow.
On the downside the regulatory pullback in hospital clinical compliance services continues and has pressures revenues and earnings for that product offering.
And at OptumHealth we are continuing to build out our local care delivery organization.
Today our physicians and clinical professionals touch 2 million consumes with high levels of clinical quality to our local clinics which are prominent leaders in their market.
All in Optum delivered an exceptional second quarter and first half with improved earnings and capital returns compared to a very strong prior year.
We expect Optum's earnings to accelerate in the second half of 2014 especially in the fourth quarter as they have in the past years.
Driven by strong revenue growth achieving performance incentives from customers the accumulating benefits of operational efficiencies and structural cost efforts and favorable seasonal patterns at OptumInsight and OptumHealth.
Optum remains on page to contribute roughly one-third of UnitedHealth Group's 2014 cash flows from operations all while investing in future growth of this business.
To summarize the first half of the year was strong with revenues growing by $3.5 billion or 6% year-over-year.
First half earnings of $2.52 per share position us positively for the full year growth.
With a strong second half growth performance from Optum and seasonal strength in UnitedHealthcare's second half operating margins expected to help accelerate our earnings and bring us to a strong close.
We see 2014 revenues at about $130 billion and net earnings in the range of $5.50 to $5.60 per share with cash flows from operations in the range of $7.8 billion to $8.2 billion.
We are intensely focused on continuing to execute evermore sharply on the details and fundamentals in every aspect of our businesses and in everything we do for the people we serve.
We will provide a full view of our 2015 expectations at our annual investors conference in New York City on Tuesday December 2nd.
So thank you for your time this morning and we will now take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from Justin Lake of JP Morgan.
Questions on medical cost trends.
I know you indicated trends inline overall but given the recent data points out there I was hoping you might have some color to share in terms of real time Rx trends hospital discharge planners etcetera.
And then just a quick follow up on your Medicare Advantage comments in the prepared remarks.
Is it reasonable to expect you are in a position to grow membership here for 2015.
Thanks.
Yes.
So Dan Schumacher you want to comment.
I don’t know if we can get into that level of detail but I think we can add some color.
Sure.
Good morning Justin.
This is Dan.
With respect to the costs obviously in the quarter we were very pleased with our medical cost performance.
And as Steve mentioned our underlying cost trends remain very well controlled.
We continue to make improvements in our medical cost management and a lot of that honestly is in strong partnership with Optum.
Whether it be payment integrity local care delivery our partnership with OptumRx and so forth.
And so as Steve mentioned on the full year we still expect our cost trend to be in the 6% plus or minus 50 basis range.
We would like to expect that to be closer to the lower end of that range.
With regards to what's happening in the quarter and our early data nothing would suggest that we are seeing any kind of surge.
So as we look at daily hospital census data as we look at prior authorization for outpatient and inpatient procedures pharmacy fulfillment all of those things wouldn’t point to any sort of surge in the quarter.
Gail (indiscernible) now if you want to talk about MA.
Sure.
Good morning Justin.
This is Gail Boudreaux.
In terms of your question on Medicare Advantage.
First of all we really alike our position around Medicare and feel that the work that we have done over the past year has put us in a good position.
So overall we are looking to grow.
We will provide you a lot more detail obviously at our investor conference but we do feel that the work around network product positioning value has put us in a good place and I feel positive about Medicare.
Do you want to add anything? I think you said it well.
Our next question comes from Matthew Borsch of Goldman Sachs.
I was hoping maybe you could talk about the -- what you are seeing in the pricing environment as an update from last quarter in the traditional commercial risk business and maybe not relative to the 280 000 commercial risk lives that lapsed during the quarter.
Sure Jeff? Good morning Matt.
It's Jeff Alter.
Really nothing has changed in the pricing environment that we discussed in the first quarter.
The pressure remains in mainly New York and a couple of other small group markets.
You know I would just remind you that a part of that or a large part of that 280 000 member loss which related to our individual footprint.
We had mentioned in our investor conference that we were going to lose individual business throughout the year because of our pullback in a lot of markets.
And I think we are beginning to see changes and some good momentum in other parts of our business other than those few pressured markets.
And as Steve mentioned in his prepared remarks really encouraged by the national account season and then our win back of the State of Georgia and couple of other larger public sector accounts.
Has your view changed at all with respect to -- you are looking at 2015 being a quiet year for contract changes? Matt could you clarify what type I am not following.
It's John Rex.
Well I think that the question earlier in the year had been with 2015 are you going to see significant carrier switching particularly for the large accounts that renew on a calendar year basis.
And I think you had said you thought it was going to be a relatively quiet year for that.
Now with your backlog increasing has that view changed at all? This is Gail.
In terms of your question a couple of things.
Steve mentioned in the comments and I think Jeff reiterated in the large case market we feel pretty positive about what we are seeing in that marketplace and the momentum we have.
You saw we just won the State of Georgia back which I think is another positive.
In terms of in-year switching we are very pleased with the pieces that we locked in as part of last year and that provides us a nice long-term run rate.
So overall and we see there are some positive emerging dynamics but again we are early into this cycle right now so I don’t want to comment for next year but I think it's pretty consistent with what we have said on the last call.
Our next question comes from Peter Costa of Wells Fargo.
Your guidance for commercial loss ratio back in December was 79.2 plus or minus 50 bps.
You noted on the first quarter call that the pressure from SOVALDI and the New York pricing market was pressuring the overall consolidated loss ratio towards the higher end of the 80.5 plus or minus 50 bps but never I think specifically noted what the impact was on the commercial loss ratio.
So it's hard to tell right now whether the commercial loss ratio is trending about where you expected it to be or is it more worse than you expected it to be.
Especially since it looks like there is some gains from favorable revenue adjustments on the government business.
Can you talk to sort of the puts and takes relative to the Medicare business -Medicaid business and the commercial loss ratio relative to your expectations? So I will have Dan answer that but that’s quite a question so we will kind of do it in a summarized form Sure.
Thanks Peter.
So obviously in the first quarter we talked about both our consolidated loss ratio and the implications underneath that our commercial loss ratio would be near the higher end of the range that we had provided at investor day.
And as we look at the second quarter in light of that revised expectation we see things tracking well.
So our commercial business is tracking in line with those expectations coming out of the first quarter and we are doing a little bit better in the government business on the care ratio.
And can you specifically say what the revenue impacts were from the favorable true-ups in the revenue development in the government business? I am not going to share specifically the revenue developments but just to provide a little bit more color on the revenue developments.
They are not something that -- they are not uncommon for us particularly in the second quarter.
And so what you are seeing is a combination of finalization of our 2013 Medicare revenue that has pulled through to our 2014 estimates and we also have true-ups in our state based programs.
So we have got true-ups obviously related to the industry fee as we get that as well as normal retroactive rate adjustments.
So all of those things are representatives out there.
Our next question comes from Josh Raskin of Barclays So just getting back on Medicare Advantage.
I appreciate the comments that Gail made around you guys will look to grow in 2015 and you look your positioning.
So is that indicative I guess it's sort of a two parter so I will admit I am cheating upfront.
Are you done with provider renegotiations and network work? And then I guess more importantly is Medicare Advantage a growth business from an operating earnings perspective next year? Steve Nelson why don’t you respond to that? Sure.
First in terms of just overall positioning.
Our Medicare Advantage business as Gail mentioned we really like the performance so far and we have made quite an investment in stars in our clinical programs and network.
And these things have to work together in order for this to continue to be a growth business for us.
And so in terms of network specifically we have done a lot of the heavy lifting in terms of shaping our network and concentrating our numbers with high quality and highly engaged providers.
That work will continue but I would say in kind of a more of a different format.
We are going to be working more with providers inside our network to further concentrate that membership and expand our ACO footprint engage more heavily in capitation and other kinds of value based contracting within our existing network as opposed to actually reducing the number of providers.
So it's a little bit of shift towards working with providers already on our network but working closely with our network and shaping it and focusing it in this way as it's going to part of an ongoing process and really important as we continue to improve our stars our clinical performance and our member satisfaction.
I think we are very positive on this.
We have taken the steps that were necessary and they were the most disruptive and I think at this point forward we are now positioning this business in a way for good long-term sustainable growth star compliance.
And so while we have continued to be working on this we are very positive about where this base will go.
So to recap you are not making -- so all of the heavy lifting and the big changes around providers and things that really impact the member that’s kind of behind us.
The rest of it's going to be kind of behind the scenes more capitation the better.
So I know that’s what gives you comfort on the member side but is it also fair to say that okay from that perspective it sounds like you are getting a more efficient network and that earnings growth should be and you sort of reset margins over the last couple of years that it's more conceivable to see earnings contributions from that segment as well? So I think you're fine on all those levels.
I do think that we have to be attentive to Medicare Advantage funding levels because that has been a pressure point and so forth.
But in terms of the things that would be disruptive to the business Steve I think those have run the course....
Yes I think you summarized it well.
And we think the earnings range for the government business we have talked about for us between 3% and 5%.
And we are in that range this year and we will continue to be in that range.
That’s our view and I am obviously not giving specific guidance for next year but more to come.
But that’s how we think about it.
Really great performance and I am excited about the competitive positioning looking forward.
Our next question comes from Sarah James of Wedbush Securities.
I was hoping you could provide some color on utilization levels of the newly insured? And it would be really helpful if you could break that out to the newly insured on the Medicaid side so would work or expansion members versus the commercial side the exchange members that were previously uninsured? We will.
And now keep in mind we have a very low profile in exchange but Gail and team you want to respond? Sure good morning Sarah.
Steve -- first let me reiterate what Steve said around the public exchange membership.
We have got a very modest footprint there so I wouldn't draw any conclusions from our early experience in that sector.
On the Medicaid side as you've seen we've gotten tremendous growth.
We're really pleased with it.
We did expect to see increases in utilization and we also got higher rate sales for that and it's tracking very much in line with the expectations we had.
So overall I think very much in line and we're again extremely pleased by the growth that we are seeing not just across the expansion but new states wins as well as expansion of our current existing membership footprint.
And can you just clarify I think you guys mentioned you're not relying on three R's for 2015.
Does that also mean your guidance assumes no receivables for 2014 for the three R's? Sarah it's Dan.
On the three R's we have nothing on corridors and risk adjustment and we have very modest reinsurance that’s assumed recovery that's immaterial.
Our next question comes from Kevin Fischbeck of Bank of America.
One quick clarification before I get in to main question.
Did you say Steve that you have expected 2015 stars to be better than expected? I didn’t quite understand that comment.
Yes.
We are expecting to track progress in 2015 and build progress from that in '16 '17 '18.
So we are committed and see forward progress in stars.
You don’t mean what we know of already.
You don’t mean the '14 data for '15 you mean '15 for '16 to be better than expected? Gail you want to respond to it? Yes.
When the stars were published last year we had a sense of where our membership was.
We have made significant improvements in our group business which will help improve our actual '15 results.
Okay.
All right.
So it's a membership growth within the high star rating plans? That’s right.
Okay.
And then just so the main question is on the exchanges.
You mentioned that your year one was about kind of watching and learning and then year two is more about growth.
Can you just give us a sense of some of the things that you have learned? Because you are making a really big move.
You are going to do a couple dozen states.
You have really moved in.
What's given you the comfort and the confidence that this business since you are still relatively new around the claims development that it is going to be stable into next year and that this is the year to move in rather than waiting another year to get even more information.
Well I will also have the -- so this will be a team response.
But again this was consistent with how we positioned this right from the beginning that we would observe the first year for the most part and then endeavor to participate.
And we will see how we ultimately participate as we go through the balance of this year and get ready for the next year selling season.
But the size of the and response of the exchange we expected growth in it and so forth plays into that thinking and recognition this is going to be an established sector in the healthcare benefits marketplace and that we have to chose to participate at some point of time.
It kind of wanted to make sure that we don’t go in too late.
So I think we are thinking this is about the right time.
This is Gail Boudreaux again.
The only thing I would add is getting back to Steve's comments we have felt it was a good long-term market.
What we have been able to observe and learn over the course of the market as we know the existing pricing we know the network constructs we know the consumer behavior on what they picked in these different markets.
We have a better understanding of the regulatory structure and the distribution cadence.
So from those factors we are looking at the market as an opportunity.
And again more than 75% of that market is going to emerge we feel that those markets that we are looking at now are much established.
So that’s the background around our thinking on exchanges but again we have always thought it was part of our strategy and plan that this is a good long term market.
Our next question comes from Andy Schenker of Morgan Stanley.
Moving over to the operating costs they were actually meaningfully below our expectations and down year-over-year I think once you accounted for the charitable donation despite the pressures from the industry fee.
Could you perhaps discuss the level of investments in the quarter and what other savings may have drove down that ratio? Sure.
We are quite pleased Andy with the operating cost ratio for the quarter.
Obviously it's got a lot of pressure because of the implementation of the insurers fee in the second quarter which of course it wasn’t in place last year.
We are really seeing the advances in our contributions from our PBM business which is benefitting not only from scale efficiencies but also significant productivity advances both around just regular process management as well as the implementation of technology.
So Dirk and team have done an excellent job there.
Otherwise as we indicated in the investor conference we were pursuing somewhere around 70 to 80 basis points of annual productivity improvements and we in fact achieved those in this quarter.
So really what you are seeing is just raw productivity and scale advantages coming through our businesses as we project it.
In terms of investments I think we outlined those in the script with respect to the types of things that Optum is investing in.
It's really investing in growth and I think that growth is really manifesting in terms of its pipeline expansion year-over-year.
Kind of very nice job there and as indicated those investments were about $80 million in the quarter.
On top of that as you might suspect there are significant investments going in across the business so to respond to the implementation of the ACA provisions as well as growth -- more broadly -- are preparing for growth more broadly both in the exchange marketplace as well as in Medicaid.
Our next question comes from Chris Rigg of Susquehanna.
Just wanted to come back to hepatitis C.
Obviously it hasn’t been talked about nearly as much on this call but can you give us a sense for how the expenditures sort of tracked from Q1 to Q2 and sort of the pace of expenditures you are expecting in the back half of the year given the potential for some new drugs coming to the market.
Thanks.
Sure.
Dan? Sure.
Good morning Chris.
Our Q2 spend for hepatitis C was in line with our revised expectations coming out of the first quarter.
We will tell you that in the first quarter our new patient volume peaked in all of our benefits businesses and I think we have got strong controls over the appropriate use.
So as we think about the cost related to hepatitis C and its treatment we have that accounted for and accommodated within our full year trend outlook as well as in our care ratio guidance.
Okay.
And then if I could how are discussions going with the state Medicaid partners with regard to the drug.
Thanks.
Austin? Sure.
This is Austin Pittman.
First of all again this is the cost of the program we expected to be fully reimbursed.
We are very pleased and making strong progress in our discussions with our state partners in securing that reimbursement.
Our next question comes from A.
J.
Rice of UBS.
Maybe a two part thing on Optum.
First of all I know you have talked around the investment spending and said it was $80 million in the second quarter but that by the fourth quarter it should have less impact.
Is that because that $80 million run rate goes down or is that because of the leverage of spending.
And then more broadly just on OptumRx.
You mentioned some positive related to the 2015 selling season.
I wondered if you can expand more on is Optum out there actively pursuing business across the board.
Do you have your integrated model fully in place now or you can talk to people about total cost or is that still something that will come in future selling seasons.
We will be anxious to answer that question.
Larry you want to take it? A.J.
it's Larry Renfro.
I will start with the question on the planned investments and then I start to take up the PBM question in terms of the sales.
So when we began the year and had our plan put together we expected to spend about $200 million in what I will call planned investments for the future.
It's a very very similar model to what we have actually done with the PBM and I think you know over the past few years we spent some dollars in order to get the platforms up to speed and we are kind of using that same playbook.
So for the year it's $200 million.
We have spent year-to-date about $140.
So obviously we are overweight in the first half of the year and we will start to see that go down as we head into the fourth quarter.
So financial targets and so forth this is all planned.
There is nothing out of the ordinary.
So we are online or inline with everything that we are doing.
So again let me say that again it's $140 million year-to-date that was planned year-to-date out of a total of $200 million.
Dirk? Yes.
So A.J.
thanks.
A couple of things first.
Steve mentioned that we had a nice year in 2014 with respect to our growth.
As we look at our pipeline for 2015 our pipeline is up double-digits compared to the same time last year.
It's not a ton of business changing hands.
If you look at what we have closed this year versus the same time last year we are certainly ahead.
We do feel that our synchronization message is resonating in the market as we go in and we talk to our prospects.
It's all about bringing together the medical the lab the pharmacy data.
Try to optimize outcomes and lower cost.
We think we also have a good service offering and I think we do a pretty good job managing specialties.
So all of those are contributing to our success.
Our next question comes from Scott Fidel of Deutsche Bank.
Just wondering given the broader entry into the public exchanges in 2015 what your strategy is for surmounting the auto enrollment policy that would seem to give an advantage to incumbents? Is it more that you just expect so much more growth in the exchange market that that's not really an issue? And just wondering whether you think that that policy is a bit anti-competitive for new market entrants or that it just benefits the market in terms of reducing likely the overall amount of churn in the market? Sure Jeff? Good morning Scott it's Jeff Alter.
On the first part there is going to be as Gail and Steve mentioned earlier still a large amount of the population that we expect to be in those exchanges we will call at the end of the cycle and we expect to take a large part of that new business.
But just on the existing population.
You know there is a lot of leverage around the subsidy and price changes so as competitors change prices it does tend to move the subsidy dollars around pretty strongly.
So we believe there will some there will also be shopping even though people don’t have to shop.
I think just the natural consumer play at an exchange is going to cause a shopping experience and we feel we could get some part of that membership shift as it goes along.
We are obviously not going to comment on the anti-competitive part of anything.
And just as you see some of the initial rate filings now coming out for the exchanges in the individual market when how would you say that those are coming out so far relative to your expectations in terms of the competitor filings.
I think they are within our range of expectations.
You are seeing competitors you might have relied a little bit on the three R protection and as that protection goes away they have to adjust their pricing.
And we are seeing that.
So nothing that we have seen to date surprises us or changes the approach that we have taken with our own pricing.
We are very comfortable with our pricing and just keep in mind that that pricing is driven not only by our forward view of cost but also as we have mentioned we have observed the marketplace.
In 2014 we are bringing different products to market in some of these exchanges than we would have traditionally brought.
Some more HMO.
Much tighter alignment with Optum and some of their programs to help us manage the diseases the health of those members and creating a different -- in some cases a different dynamic with the network.
Our next question comes from Christine Arnold of Cowen.
Could you paint us a picture around Optum360? What kind of investments are you making specifically there this year versus next year? What's the potential? What does this look like a couple of years from now? I am having a hard time visualizing the benefit of the financials and precisely what the model looks like? Yes Larry you want to start? Sure.
Christine I am going to hand this off to Bill Miller who is the executive that runs the OptumInsight and where Optum360 sits.
And we will not specifically talk about our customers.
Maybe I can frame some of the size of our potential accounts and where we are headed and I will let Bill then to talk specifically about Optum360.
I think you know that when we set priorities for 2014 we talked about really one of the priorities going after and Steve mentioned it earlier for the larger deeper relationships and more complex relationships.
And last year we aligned with an organization on the west coast to build revenue cycle management and we are starting to build that.
So I am going to give you four four areas that I would say that will kind of depict what we are trying to do and the size of that.
Our external backlog right now is up 20% and that’s up to $7.5 billion.
Our pipeline is up 122% and continuing to grow.
I will say that the government business is in that and if you look to that as a standalone that's about $1 billion.
Probably about $6.6 billion in that total pipeline.
If you looked at our top 25 accounts and the revenues that we have had over the past since 2011 our revenues are up 2.5 times.
And our accounts that had values of over $100 million are also up 20% year-over-year in the number of accounts that we have.
Obviously Optum360 we have a strategy that we are not going to get into detail about because it is an extremely competitive strategy that we are deploying.
That's why the amount of investment that we are actually putting in in the first quarter and we will start to see in the fourth quarter I should say the first half of the year.
And we will start to see the benefits of that in the fourth quarter as we talked a few minutes ago with A.J.
Also be able to note that we are overweighed in our spend during the first six months of the year.
So let me let Bill talk specifically about Optum360 and some of the things going on there.
Yes Christine good question and thank you.
So as far as painting that picture I think the picture is that’s a very big market a fragmented market.
And we see ourselves I think very well positioned to drive a lot of efficiencies for health systems that are struggling with that fragmentation.
We also bring I think a very strong attitude not only from a technology standpoint which we have served the market with for years but all the services and processes needed to take out cost and operate a revenue cycle with far more efficiency that’s going to be required in an environment where hospitals are continually pressured on their margins.
And I think the other thing that we keep top of mind in terms of that vision of the future is we feel uniquely positioned to help drive out the friction between payers and providers and we also do understand that in the future the role of the consumer and the patient experience associated with their care their billing is something that’s very critical and I think it's part of the mission of Optum360.
And the investments associated with that are I think being able to strengthen our technology portfolio along with on-boarding our largest clients and as Larry said these relationships are growing in size and we really like the trajectory and the backlog that we have built and the pipeline growth that we have seen.
Particularly over the last I would say seven eight months.
John you want...? No I think -- just to add Christine you talked about -- less obviously you talked about the scope of those investments that’s clearly encompassed in the $200 million that Larry has been talking about for full year.
And a lot of it is basically implementation on a much more comprehensive revenue cycle population health analytics paradigm to change the dynamics in large systems.
Our next question comes from Ralph Giacobbe of Credit Suisse.
I want to go back to the MLR point.
Can you maybe talk about seasonality in the business sort of your thoughts there with sort of the continuation of and high penetration of high-deductible plans? Whether there is a potential that that sort of magnifies the cost picture I guess in the second half of the year.
And then along those lines MLR guidance I guess is still close to that 81% level.
You did 82% in the first half.
Obviously it implies 80% in the second half.
Is that kind of still a fair way to think about it? Thanks.
Hi Ralph.
This is Dan Schumacher.
On the seasonality related to high deductible we continue to make inroads in high deductible offerings.
I mean it’s an offering within our portfolio.
I wouldn’t say that there is any dramatic shift.
I think the normal seasonal progression is what you should expect with regard to commercial and how deductibles play out.
With regard to the consolidated loss ratio our full year guidance was 80.5% plus or minus 50 basis points and we suggest that that could be near the high-end of the range.
And I think that’s exactly how you should think about it.
So no change there.
Our next question comes from Ana Gupte of Leerink.
I wanted to get some color on the [uplift] (ph) for the small group market in 2015.
Now that there is proof of concept for public exchanges might your competitors and you be more incented to price down because you would still make a margin higher than your potentially public exchange start to trip there offerings of benefits to their workers? I am not sure that we got clear on the last part of your question.
You want to refine that Ana? Yes.
So I guess what I am trying to understand is I am hearing generally the buzz is that small group employers are more likely to dump or reduce their offerings for '15.
So would that potentially put more pressure on the pricing as well as the size of the market for '15? Okay.
Jeff? Good morning Ana.
It's Jeff Alter.
We continue to believe that the employer dumping will be somewhat moderated it was moderate this year.
We are not sure next year is any year that would be much different than this year as these exchanges establish.
And I would say as you are seeing some of the pricing normalize which might take another year or so for that to happen.
Just on the pricing interplay between the two markets.
They are different markets and we look at them around the population that we are serving in each one of those.
When we think about pricing there is no right now in our thinking there is an arbitrage between those two marketplaces.
They are different.
There are different consumers served in those marketplaces.
And our pricing for small groups is solely predicated on what we believe that risk looks like what that membership looks like and then our responses to that risk.
And that would be the same for the exchanges as well.
And does it include your self-insured competition as well.
Is that propensity continuing to self-insured? Continuing as there is (indiscernible)? Ana I don’t know what kind of phone you are on but it's not coming through clearly at all.
So you want to try that one more time? I was just asking if that is also consistent on the self-insured small and mid-market competition.
Is there more movement to self-insured that could create pricing pressure again in fully-insured? I don’t think any difference in what has been going on steadily for maybe the last decade but Jeff Gail any response? This is Gail.
No we haven't seen any acceleration.
There is no as Steve said a historical trend to self-insured.
There was some early discussion around that moving down market but we haven't seen an acceleration in that? Our next question comes from Tom Carroll of Stifel.
So question on your Medicaid performance.
You are showing very strong results.
So I wonder if you could remind us just kind of what you expect into next year.
I mean do you expect outsized enrollment growth to continue into 2015 and additionally where do you expect pretax margins in this business to settle out given a larger population driven by the Affordable Care Act as well as new groups like dual eligibles? Sure.
Austin? Sure.
Thanks for the question.
We are excited about the growth as well.
It's been an outstanding year as Steve highlighted in his opening comments.
We now expect that growth to be over 800 000 on the year.
And I will tell you that the thing that is great about it is if you look at this quarter's growth the 380 000 that we grew this year it's really evenly split between expansion populations as well as what I call core growth.
So that’s winning procurement executing those procurements implementing new programs within states that we are already in that state and have a relationship and good strong organic growth.
I think as far as the prospects for continued growth we feel very strong about this business.
Particularly if you look at the combined strength of Optum and UnitedHealthcare our ability to really address state partners needs to deliver value in complex population.
So I think the outlook is strong.
And margins? As we have talked about before we expect this business to continue to perform at 3% to 5% range.
Okay.
And that the scale will pull you to the stronger side of that? Absolutely.
But that’s do different than where he have been for the last couple of years.
Your next question comes from Dave Windley of Jefferies.
Wanted to get a little more framing around your SG&amp;A expectations as the year progresses.
There has been a fair amount of conversation about investments.
Your first half is well below I think your full year guidance.
I guess I am trying at could we expect that the full year will trend towards the lower end of that based on where you are looking so far this year or are there discreet investments that are layering on there in a fairly significant way to drive that up.
Thank you.
Yes.
I guess a couple of things come to mind is that we are clearly focused on continuing to be focused an efficient in this.
And then there is the selling season in the second half of the year is a big factor.
But Dave? Yeah David it's Dave Wichmann again.
As Steve outlined it's both the selling season in the back half of the year which effects Q3.
Kind of the preparatory work in advance of OEP and then in the Q4 the actual payment of commissions and otherwise associated with that business.
But also the significant work we do to prepare for January 1st and the incremental volumes form growth in our business.
So we always see the back half of any given year as having a higher operating cost ratio then the first half of the year.
With respect to where we are at on overall guidance we said it would be 16.7% plus or minus 30.
We are still squarely within that range for the full year.
Are there perhaps around exchange your significant increase in participation in exchange that you anticipate for '15? Is that in line with what you would have anticipated when you gave guidance originally or is there perhaps more investment to prepare for that for 2015? David it's in line with what we had planned all along.
So we always anticipated a more modest participation this year and then ramping in the 2015-2016 time period and that’s exactly how this is playing out.
Next question comes from Brian Wright of Sterne Agee.
Agee</strong> Could you tell us how much of the sequential revenue growth at Optum this quarter was internal versus -- OptumRx was internal versus external? I don’t know if we can but obviously just given the size of UnitedHealthcare that it's a meaningful and the in-sourcing.
It's a meaningful element there.
Dirk maybe you could comment generally on your balance for the year.
I think you may have that available.
Well I guess what I would say is we continue to have a pretty good year as we sit and look at it.
Some of the efficiencies that Dave pointed out we will continue to leverage those as well additional purchasing efficiencies that we have specifically in the generic area should continue to make us expand margins a little bit as we proceed through the year.
Agee</strong> Yes if I could follow up on EPS progression.
Does the commentary about the acceleration in Optum in the fourth quarter and then getting the Medicare Advantage true-ups in second quarter versus third quarter does that change the back half seasonality versus more recent years like last year? No I think in general the pattern is consistent year to year.
So the relative kind of 40:60 in terms of the first half through the second half and then the fourth quarter should be stronger than the third.
So that pattern holds up.
The next question comes from Carl McDonald of Citigroup.
Six months ago you talked about growing earnings in 2015 but not at the long-term target rate.
The earnings growth you talked about this morning is that still the right context to think about? And related to that if there's any major shift in the moving pieces that you've highlighted previously in terms of another year of reforming from the patient Medicare rate cuts that would also be interesting.
Yes I am not sure I got the second half of that but no we would expect that our targeted growth rate which is kind of 13%-16% that 15% would be in that zone just given the continued adjustments.
But then moving 16%-17% beyond we clearly are focused on getting back to that zone and see a path to that.
But the timing in terms of stepping through '15-'16 that’s what we are navigating right now.
I'm sorry the second half of the question was just if there was any change to some of the bigger moving pieces you talked about previously for 2015 in terms of Medicare rate cuts as well as another year of reform implementation being the biggest headwinds to getting to that long-term growth rate? Yes I wouldn’t say there are new headwinds which is a very positive thing to be.
And I actually think that we are making real progress on the -- I think this quarter's performance and kind of our outlook.
We are making steady progress on the challenges that are in the marketplace for us and everyone else.
So I don’t think there are any dynamic elements of that.
If I go back to the things that I have parsed through in thinking about that I would say the Medicaid performance and growth is a nice upside.
I think our positioning on Medicare I see us having made a nice adjustment here and are focused on making sure that we are attuned to kind of the next era of Medicare Advantage and Medicare product progression.
We see a nice potential in terms of the international market place and good work that has been done in Amil.
We are going to keep a positive posture towards the exchange market place and see that in the kind of same margin range as our let's say our Medicaid business at a 3% to 5% range.
When you look at Optum and its potential and the opportunity for the collaborative care local care delivery businesses the potential of the major relationships.
Kind of anchoring relationships for OptumInsight and 360 and the ability to kind of diversify and take a new maybe broader more progressive approach on the PBM.
That really does start to tie in medical costs diagnostic testing and specialty pharma and so forth.
I think that to provides a lot of potential to work with kind of against the challenges that the ACA set in front of all of us and that we are working through right now.
So that what gives us a view that we have a lot of work to do but there is lot to work with.
And there are no further questions at this time.
So with that we appreciate very much your attention today at UnitedHealth Group.
Optum and UnitedHealthcare delivered I think a very solid second quarter.
Growing both revenues and earnings per share.
We remain focused on consistent fundamental execution innovation service.
We believe we are positively positioned for the full year and a strong close in '14 as well as continuing growth in '15 and beyond.
So thank you and we will see you next quarter? This does conclude today's UnitedHealth Group's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines and everyone have a great day.
Good morning.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
A question-and-answer session will follow UnitedHealth Group's prepared remarks.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here are some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated October 16 2014 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
This morning we will review our 2014 third quarter and 9-month financial results results which have been consistently in line with or ahead of the outlook we shared with you nearly 1 year ago.
We're seeing steady progress across our businesses and over the next 2 years expect our overall business performance to further strengthen and accelerate in both top and bottom line growth.
Our top line performance this quarter suggests an improving environment for our offerings combined with steady consistent execution.
Revenue grew 7% year-over-year led by growth in senior and public sector benefits and across Optum's portfolio of Health Services.
Consistent execution is evident in our performance in managing medical and operating costs successful state Medicaid expansion moderately improving Medicare star rating and the value clients are realizing in Optum's provider payer and government markets and all of this is in the face of unprecedented healthcare reform across the United States.
Our third quarter revenues were $32.8 billion and earnings per share grew 7% to $1.63 per share.
UnitedHealthcare results clearly strengthened with Optum again contributing 30% of our enterprise-wide operating earnings.
Operating cash flows of $3.2 billion were exceptional at twice our net income level despite remitting $1.3 billion in federal ACA taxes during this quarter.
This morning we are affirming our 2014 revenue outlook of $130 billion and raising our net earnings projection to a range of $5.60 to $5.65 per share.
As always our goal is to perform in the upper end of our range.
We remain focused on executing a deliberate quality and cost agenda because improving healthcare quality and affordability is core to delivering value at both UnitedHealthcare and Optum.
On any given day we average 27 000 members in the hospital and another 14 000 at skilled nursing facilities.
We have nearly 2 000 clinicians across the nation working with attending physicians to help keep our members on course for optimal medical outcomes successful discharges and to avoid unnecessary readmissions.
Optum expects to perform 1 million Medicare house calls and home visits this year to engage our members understand their health status and needs close gaps in care and advance clinical care paths and services.
Over the past 5 years our commitment to affordable quality care has become ever more integrated targeted and refined.
Modern plan designs harness greater patient responsibility with online tools and consumer engagement services that help people make better choices and decisions to get the right care at the right facility for the right cost.
We serve nearly 6 million people in consumer-directed health plans up from 2.9 million people just 5 years ago and these consumers have set aside $2.7 billion in healthcare funding through health banking and investment accounts with Optum.
These consumers and those in similar consumer-centric programs are motivated to engage and make the best choices about their health and healthcare.
Consumer engagement includes making quality and pricing transparency tools available right at people's fingertips right on their smartphones.
These tools tap into our Premium designation quality networks a commercial benefits program we began in 2004 that now helps link people to nearly 120 000 network doctors recognized for consistent superior quality and efficiency.
These doctors practice in clinical areas that generate more than 80% of our consumers' medical cost experience and the results are consistently outstanding.
Our premium cardiac physicians have 28% fewer repeat procedures and a 29% lower complication rate for implantable cardiac device surgeries.
Our premium orthopedic surgeon have 41% fewer repeat procedures and a 17% lower complication rate for knee surgeries.
There are more examples like these demonstrating that getting an engaged consumer to the right doctor makes a meaningful difference.
Our commitment to affordability extends to the care delivery side.
Value-based contracting has become foundational to UnitedHealthcare today contracts that align care provider incentives around healthcare quality outcomes appropriate use of services and total cost of care.
Our contracts with value-based medical spend now total nearly $35 billion per year up from less than $13 billion just 3 years ago and on the path to $65 billion by 2018 if not sooner.
The modern health system is being shaped around aligned incentives supported by transparent information and consistently high-quality clinical services.
These changes are helping our nation in turn to achieve optimal evidence-based utilization and cost.
We are among the leaders shaping this next-generation healthcare system with Optum working hand-in-glove with care providers in local markets helping them improve consistency quality and cost structures so they can preserve and grow their patient basis as their market shifts to performance-based revenues.
Our progress is apparent in UnitedHealthcare's year-by-year decrease in hospitalizations per member in every major product category including in 2014.
Over the past 6 years UnitedHealthcare has realized accumulative 26% reduction in inpatient use per Medicare member and a 16% reduction in inpatient use per commercial member while continuing to improve overall quality of care.
To begin a brief but more detailed discussion of third quarter results we'll start today with UnitedHealthcare.
Third quarter revenues grew 6% year-over-year exceeding $30 billion.
UnitedHealthcare earned more than $2 billion in the quarter driven by overall revenue growth and an efficient operating margin of 6.8% even considering the growing mix toward lower margin public and senior sector customers.
Third quarter was again led by Community &amp; State where we grew to serve 250 000 more people.
We are now on course to grow by just under 1 million new Medicaid members this year.
This record level of organic growth is well balanced with about 60% from health reform market expansions and 40% from established states under new programs that complement established approaches as well as natural growth within the traditional programs.
And Medicare continues to be a growth contributor as we approach organic growth of 500 000 people across all products in 2014 a strong and consistent outcome in a year where we took necessary steps that caused some membership losses to position our Medicare Advantage products for future growth and to benefit seniors in the years ahead.
Today we have a more focused and aligned network supporting Medicare Advantage a Part D program qualified to serve low-income seniors in 97% of the markets nationally for 2015 and a rising star quality that will continue to advance.
For the 2015 payment year we expect more than 37% of our MA members to be in plans rated 4 stars or higher.
We expect a similar percentage in 2016 and sharply improved performance in 2017 and '18 based on efforts launched earlier this year and establishing themselves across our markets.
The open-enrollment season began yesterday.
We believe our products are well positioned locally.
Our sales and marketing resources are properly staged and supported and we expect solid growth in our Medicare Advantage our Part D and Medicare supplemental offerings in 2015.
In the commercial markets we remain focused on pricing discipline relative to cost trends balancing margin and market positioning all with an eye towards consistency and sustainability for both customers and consumers.
The multi-quarter decline in risk-based enrollment has slowed and the modest decrease in self-funded products were due to employment attrition.
In the individual market we remain on course to participate in nearly 2 dozen state exchanges in 2015 consistent with our original public exchange strategy.
In Brazil pricing increases reflect new baseline costs in delivering expanded mandated healthcare benefit leading to a conscious reduction in membership this year.
Despite this decline Amil's revenues were strong in the third quarter with international revenues increasing 19% year-over-year.
Turning back to medical costs our third quarter commercial care ratio was 79.1%.
The consolidated care ratio was 79.7% a decrease of 90 basis points over last year's third quarter.
Earnings were strengthened by continued favorable reserve development across the business as our affordability initiatives continue to perform well.
Moving to our Healthcare Services platform.
Optum's third quarter included a healthy balance of growth earnings performance and focused strategic market activity.
Through the first 9 months Optum revenues have grown 26% and earnings from operations by 24%.
We believe the fourth quarter will be strong for this platform and Optum remains on pace to contribute roughly 1/3 of UnitedHealth Group's 2014 cash flows from operations all while investing significantly in future growth.
In the third quarter Optum's revenues grew 21% year-over-year to $12 billion.
Earnings from operations grew 27% year-over-year to $865 million.
Operating margins rose 1 full percentage point from second quarter and 30 basis points year-over-year to 7.2%.
OptumRx led this quarter's results.
Revenues grew 27%.
Earnings from operations grew 65% to $326 million and operating margins were above 4% improving 0.5 points since the June quarter and 1 percentage point year-over-year.
The market is responding to the value of synchronized pharmacy and medical benefits where OptumRx uses data technology and an integrated service model to address the total medical experience in related costs rather than solely the pharmacy silo.
We have seen a number of new opportunities with employers for 2015 and we believe we have been awarded more than our fair share of that new business.
This growth is additive to the growth that flows naturally from the businesses of UnitedHealthcare each year.
OptumInsight's growth was led by Optum360 revenue management and government exchange services.
We continue to deliver services in the development and operation of federal and state healthcare exchanges and look forward to continuing to leverage Optum's expertise to serve our government partners in this important work.
With the passing of this quarter we have fully cycled through last October's regulatory pullback in hospital clinical compliance services.
To put the magnitude of this pullback in perspective OptumInsight's underlying operating earnings growth would have been more than 15 percentage points higher than the 6 percentage point growth we reported this quarter which only highlights the strength and momentum of the diversified product offerings we offer in this segment including the commercial version of our hospital clinical compliance capabilities that is gaining traction with hospitals in the market and is becoming a future growth driver.
And our position as a valued service provider to hospitals further advanced with the recent acquisition of the MedSynergies organization.
MedSynergies has deep expertise in revenue management for hospital-employed physicians and medical groups.
Connecting MedSynergies with our Optum360 inpatient focus creates an end-to-end revenue management offering for large sophisticated integrated care delivery systems.
Coupling these with Optum's clinical software analytics and workflow tools gives us a comprehensive and market-leading solution to serve delivery systems covering both administrative and clinical domains across the full continuum of care settings.
Within our Optum's analytics businesses we expect to end the year with more than 50 million lives of longitudinal clinical data up 50% in a year and easily one of the largest such resources in the country if not the largest and it supplements our 155 million person administrative claims data repository.
Increasingly we are harnessing this sophisticated data resource for advanced analytics across multiple platforms to meet growing market needs around managing the health of populations.
OptumHealth reported an 11% operating margin in the third quarter with earnings from operations up 16% year-over-year.
These results were led by our Collaborative Care businesses.
Today Optum touches 2 million consumers through our Collaborative Care physicians and clinical professionals who are prominent leaders in their local markets recognized for clinical quality.
As our medical groups transition to Optum technology we further improve their execution on behalf of the patients and payers they serve help grow their business and generate superior financial returns.
More broadly within OptumHealth we look to meaningfully improve clinical outcomes and patient well-being across multiple settings: outpatient within institutions and in the home.
We expect Optum overall revenues to be at the upper end or perhaps above our target of $45 billion to $46 billion with earnings from operations near the upper end of our previous outlook of $3.1 billion to $3.2 billion.
Optum's future growth should continue to be strong supported by our $7.7 billion contract revenue backlog and exceptional levels of customer pipeline activity.
To summarize 2014 performance remains consistently strong through the first 9 months particularly considering the ACA headwinds this year.
Revenues have grown year-over-year by 6%.
We have increased our full year net earnings outlook to a range of $5.60 to $5.65 per share and this earnings outlook accommodates expected fourth quarter seasonality strong Optum performance to close the year and fourth quarter investments in growth including strong Medicare Advantage marketing and the launch of our individual products on health exchanges in 19 new states.
We expect 2014 cash flows from operations will be around $8 billion possibly more.
Our growing earnings capacity this year positions us well for 2015.
At this distance I would offer that the consensus earnings estimates for next year do a pretty good job of calibrating our 2015 outlook reflecting the combination of opportunities we expect to pursue and the challenges we expect to manage.
We remain fully committed to consistent fundamental execution with the objective of realizing as much of our true potential as possible in every endeavor.
We will provide details of our 2015 outlook at our Investor Conference on December 2 in the context of our long-term strategy and our opportunity to serve people and to build value.
So now I'll turn this call back to our moderator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] So thank you very much.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Justin Lake of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the commercial business.
First can you talk about your early view on exchange positioning in terms of products and price relative to peers and how we should think about profit targets here given the losses in '14 that we see across the industry? And then just a quick comment on New York's small group and how we should think about over 2015 given the pushback on pricing seen from regulators.
Okay Justin we'll respond to your 2-part question.
I will offer some perspective that we are trying to participate thoughtfully in exchanges and have not -- don't have -- have not built excessive expectations on that.
I think Jeff will talk to exchanges and then maybe to New York.
Sure.
Good morning Justin.
It's Jeff Alter.
So on your first question or your first part of your single question on public exchanges I would say it's keeping with our strategy that we waited to see what was going on in '14 and then are using that knowledge.
It built a different platform for exchanges.
So when you think about where our products are positioned many of those products come with a network construct that's probably nontraditional to what you might expect from UnitedHealthcare.
We feel good about where we're positioned.
We are targeting profitability in '15 probably a little bit lower than that 3% to 5% long-term range that we've talked about but still profitable.
And from what we know today we feel pretty good about where we're positioned in many of the exchanges particularly the largest states where we expect to grow the most.
New York I would say nothing's changed too much in New York from the competitive environment that we -- we're in the middle of this year.
The rate actions -- the rate approval actions by the regulator pretty much give us for the most part the same competitive marketplace in New York for 2015 that we have today.
We're fortunate to have a broad portfolio of fully insured business across the country and we're managing through some of those regulator responses right now.
Our next question comes from Matthew Borsch of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I could ask about Medicare Advantage.
If you could just -- I realize you'll go into detail at the December 2 Investor Day but maybe you can just talk to the scope of the benefit changes that you made and if you can characterize how they look to you at your initial look versus what the competition has put out and maybe directionally if you think that you'll be able to grow membership and earnings next year.
Yes I think we feel pretty good about it.
Steve you want to comment? Sure.
Hi Matt Steve Nelson.
Yes we really like our position going into 2015.
Benefits shaped up about as we expected.
We have -- we think we're positioned very well to grow in 2015 meaningfully at sustainable margins.
Other software we did add premiums which was a important step to the long-term viability of this product and -- but we are very thoughtful about that.
We added premiums in markets where premiums already existed and we added about -- to about 1/3 of our members.
In 1/3 of those cases we added 0 premium alternatives.
In places where we didn't do that we enhanced our benefits in meaningful ways that we knew based on our research would be important to seniors.
So we feel very positive 1 day into open enrollment and we expect to grow meaningfully at sustainable margins.
Research Division</strong> And the earnings growth? Sorry.
Yes we expect to grow earnings across the board for 2015.
Actually we think all of our businesses are really better positioned than they were as we entered into '14.
And really the underpinnings of our '15 outlook obviously they -- different contributions but we're expecting growth completely across all our businesses.
The next question comes from Peter Costa of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk about your expectations for cost trends going into the end of the year and then to next year and how you expect to be pricing for that cost trend for next year in the commercial side of the business? Sure I think Dan Schumacher will respond to this.
Good morning Peter.
Thank you for the question.
On the medical cost side I'd tell you in the quarter we were very pleased with our performance in the quarter both in aggregate as well as across each of our businesses.
And frankly it was a little bit better than we expected and you can see that in the care ratio.
You can see it in a little stronger prior-period development relative to the last couple of quarters.
Each year we set a trend expectation respectful mindful of underlying medical costs and then we endeavor to outperform it and we have strong medical cost management disciplines that we apply and you're seeing us outperform that this year.
As you look at our full year commercial cost trend for 2014 we expect to perform at the low end of our range of 6% plus or minus 50 basis points possibly a little bit better.
As you look into next year on the cost side we expect similar themes and we'll go through the specifics of that with you at the Investor Conference but certainly a major component of that will be unit cost as it is every year.
It represents anywhere from 2/3 to 3/4 of the underlying cost trend and that's something that is founded on negotiations that are happening each day every day.
So we've got very good line of sight on that.
With respect to pricing I'd ask Jeff Alter to comment on that.
Morning Peter.
We've had a very successful long-term pricing discipline so nothing's changed in our philosophy.
We continue as Dan mentioned to be very mindful of cost trend.
It's the #1 driver of our premium and we've got a lot of programs in place to outperform those medical forecasts.
That's a big underlier and there's a lot of other things that make up the price: provider network product attributes business mix.
But we're not changing our discipline.
It's been very successful for us and we expect it to continue to be very successful for us into the future.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to clarify are you guys saying that you expect cost trend to be the same next year as it was this year? Or are you just saying that -- similar to this year? Similar themes.
Yes Peter similar in approach.
We tend to view our costs as we enter the year.
We tend to endeavor to outperform them.
We continue to be -- to see medical cost trends and inflation going forward and we position ourselves to price accordingly.
All of that is completely consistent with the way we have approached the business for the last several years no different and we don't plan on changing that in '15.
Peter it's John Penshorn.
We'll be fully detailed on this on December 2.
We're really not trying to walk through 2015 today.
So I think we'll be able to fully answer that question here in just a few weeks.
Our next question comes from Christine Arnold of Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> You've had great growth in Medicaid and David suggests that the expansion population's pretty young and healthy.
Could you speak to where your Medicaid book of business is coming in this year and your expectations for next year with respect to that book? Yes Austin do you want to comment? Yes thanks for the question.
Well first of all we're very pleased with the growth.
We are honored to have the opportunity to work with this new population help them guide through the healthcare system.
We expected higher utilization in the expansion population.
In almost every case we got paid for that higher expectation of cost and that's what we've seen.
So we expect long term for the population to perform in that 3% to 5% margin and are very confident about the continued growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what do the rates look like for that population next year and the profitability for that book directionally? Sure.
Again we expect the rates will be appropriate for the population and support long-term sustainability.
We work hand-in-hand with our states across all the markets to ensure that on an ongoing basis that that's the case and everything seems to be showing up as we expected.
And we have long said that the margin ranges for those businesses are in a 3% to 5% zone and that's kind of how they're playing out.
Our next question is from David Windley of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> So slightly nearer-term question.
If I look at the ranges and point estimates that you've given on factors like your medical cost ratio for '14 operating costs at kind of 16 7 and even to a lesser import your tax rate it would seem that one or more of those would need to trend below what you've most recently said to get to your guidance range.
I'm wondering which of those I should focus on as performing better if you could elaborate please.
Well my reaction to that question is I would stand back and look at the totality of the business.
If you take a look at the spectrum of UnitedHealth Group and that's who we are speaking to you have the continued performance of the Optum business.
We have a very strong Medicaid business in terms of its growth.
We have an international business that we think will make a meaningful contribution going into next year.
We have been historically very strong in our operating cost disciplines and have structured those programs for across the expanse of our businesses.
I think we have nice momentum coming in our Medicare business and our commercial business.
So I wouldn't lay it out to one factor or try to basically triangulate on a ratio that really when you have a business as diversified and as expansive as this one.
So that's why I think that that's perhaps the perspective you should look at as into '15.
Our next question comes from Sarah James of Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Optum's always been a source of growth.
But this quarter it really seem to stand out particularly in growth in the external revenue for OptumInsight as well as improvements in the OptumRx margins.
Maybe you touched on it briefly in the prepared but I was hoping you could dig in a little bit further and talk about some of the programs you have in place driving that and how we should think about the potential of continued improvements there.
We'd be pleased to.
Larry can you start that off? Sure.
Sarah it's Larry Renfro.
Let me break it into 3 areas and I think it'll -- we'll get -- as John has said many times we'll get more into detail about this at the Investor Conference but this might help you get ready for the Investor Conference.
Obviously last year at the previous Investor Conference and into this year we've been talking about investing in the future especially in OptumHealth and in OptumInsight.
We had that all planned and we've absorbed obviously the impact and all of our financials are in line as we continue to finish off the investment or the development in these new programs.
I think in the third quarter you saw that OptumHealth went to a 14% top line growth and 16% bottom line growth year-over-year.
You also saw that the OptumInsight went 4% up on the top line and 6% up on the bottom line.
So what you're starting to see is what we said would happen during the year that our investments are starting to tail off and as a result really our outcomes are starting to kick in.
So we believe that that will create a strong fourth quarter as Steve referenced in his remarks.
The second part of this answer is that we are obviously going after 10 large accounts that we have identified that we would do by 2016.
We have probably as many sales metrics as we do financial metrics in Optum so we are in line with all those sales metrics as we go forward.
I'd say too that you might want to look at that would really tell you something would be our backlog.
That backlog is at $7.7 billion up 20 -- 21% year-over-year and our sales pipeline that's up 166% year-over-year.
So that's the second part of the answer.
The third part on the growth would be the 5 areas of focus that we're really concentrating on now and this would be in the future as well.
That's medical groups Optum360 the PBM international and the government business.
So I think that if you kind of go back to the question you asked I think we're pretty well positioned for growth and we're pretty much hitting on all these programs.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just a follow-up the margin improvement in OptumRx should we think about this as being the new bar for that segment? Or is there further upside from this? So OptumRx had a great quarter.
And I think if you go back to this what we were talking about a few minutes ago in terms of investing in the future that's what we did a couple of years ago when we built a platform and started the process of moving the business in health.
That's been a great move on our part.
What I would say is what the margin really does is validate the guidance that we've been giving that 3% to 4% and I think we'll expand upon that more at Investor Day.
Dirk you want to add anything? Yes.
Sarah it's Dirk.
What I would say is if you look at the third quarter the major driver of the better margin was things that we did in executing a direct purchasing acquisition strategy.
Really at the gross margin line is where we have favorable uptick in the quarter...
And those should be sustainable.
Correct.
And as Larry said we'll stick with 3% to 4% in the long term op margin perspective.
Our next question comes from Ralph Giacobbe of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In the release in your prepared you suggested and talked about sort of retrained utilization and obviously the MLR performance would suggest that as well.
Just hoping you can maybe provide a little bit more on specific inpatient and maybe outpatient metrics if you're seeing any change on sort of QE [ph] levels.
Any measurements there would be helpful.
And then just last quarter you said MLR would track at the higher end of guidance.
Is that still the case? Yes we don't actually ever get into those kinds -- that level of granular statistics but I think we can give you some commentary to give you some sense.
Sure.
Good morning Ralph this is Dan Schumacher.
On utilization specifically as we've mentioned we continue to see very stable trends across our businesses which is to say that we see the same comparable increases in 2014 as compared to 2013.
As you look at the componentry underneath it obviously pharmacy is higher in the hep C category and that's being offset -- more than offset by better performance in inpatient in particular followed by physician and outpatient.
Our medical cost management plays a very significant role in this.
As I've said earlier we do set expectations and then endeavor to outperform them and we're doing that this year.
I think some of the other things that are probably contributing to the performance in utilization is certainly some greater consumer responsibility and higher concentrations of value-based reimbursement and again those are things that are a significant focus of our enterprise.
So overall very stable utilization pattern.
I think perhaps people ask how do we know and looking at external data and so forth and I'll tell you as Steve said in the prepared remarks you look at -- we have 41 000 people in any given day in a facility and we have 2 000 people they wake up every morning and they look at who's going to be admitted who has been admitted how long they've been there what they're being treated for and most importantly working with them their family and their caregivers on appropriate discharge plan so that they can be successful when they leave.
And all of that is enabled by near realtime technology and we're going to have an opportunity to show that to you at the Investor Conference.
So that's what we're seeing on the utilization front.
Research Division</strong> Okay thanks and then just MLR guidance? MLR guidance again I think we'd reiterate comments from last quarter which is to say we'd expect to be near the higher end of the range on both the consolidated and the commercial ratios albeit a little bit better than what we were thinking leaving the second quarter.
Our next question comes from A.J.
Rice of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just to ask you about the international business.
It looks like there's acceleration in top line performance at Amil this quarter.
I know there were some issues around government changes down there and utilization and so forth.
Are you pretty much back to where you want it to be at a normalized operating trend? And then more broadly I guess you guys have been mentioned in several international sales situations.
Can you comment on your appetite for international deals at this point and whether your thinking's evolved in what you might or might not do? Yes we are basically coming around the bend on a full year in terms of the changes in Brazil and I think that they are -- we see some pretty positive sense in terms of that marketplace.
And I'll have Dave comment on that and the others.
Thanks A.J.
Thanks for the question.
I think what you're noticing in Amil is what we notice as well is it's beginning to show tangible results from the various initiatives that we put in place largely in response to this ANS regulatory change which happened just over 1 year ago.
As you know there was a lag on the market's ability to respond to that change.
So one of the things we had to do was ensure that all of our plans were in good standing get our renewals up and so even in the face of declining membership which is largely around dealing with high costs of block of business if you will we are showing strong revenue growth which is largely a reflection of the activities we have underway with respect to getting renewals in place in response to that regulatory change.
We're also pursuing managing our costs and they're coming out and we're making I think all the right changes to the business and notably our hospitals continue to perform very well as well.
So it will take some time A.J.
to work our way through this.
It will be maybe all the way to the end of '15 till we get to what I would characterize as a more normalized level of profitability in the business but we clearly see line of sight towards that.
As it relates to the international markets and our appetite there yes we are active predominately in Brazil predominantly in the healthcare delivery space predominantly in the long lines that I described before which is to move beyond the centers of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro into the contiguous cities if you will and then also to pursue growth in the Northeast part of that country.
Our efforts there have gone very well.
And then of course we have other interests internationally but I'd say most of those are aimed towards the South America and Latin American markets.
And then as we think about more broadly across the globe as well as in those 2 markets we see great opportunity for Optum which we are just beginning to pursue.
Next question comes from Josh Raskin of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to take a step back just on the benefits business and the M&amp;A landscape and it's been I think 2 years now since there's been any major M&amp;A on the benefit side and it's been even longer for United.
So I'm just curious is there a reason for this pause? Is there something in the market that changed with reform? Is it just an unsure landscape as to who the winners and the losers are in some of the benefits business? Just maybe your perspectives on M&amp;A maybe even broadly beyond UNH just in the benefit segment specifically.
Yes I'll just comment that perhaps the highest levels certainly with the healthcare reform efforts that have been going forward I could easily see this marketplace being fairly occupied in making sure that this is -- everybody in this space that they are prepared to and responding to the changing regulatory landscape and to make sure that they're pursuing the opportunities and managing the challenges that those regulatory changes brought forward.
And I think that it continues to go forward.
I think it's been a very successful first year across the industry in terms of how that has been responded to.
Research Division</strong> And when are you left occupied with those responses? Well I think my view is that this year was by far the most amount of changes but they're going to have to be digested in the marketplace over the next 2 to 3 years.
But I would not necessarily suggest then that there'll be a time when there will be market activities around M&amp;A -- begin to pick up and so forth.
I'm not sure I would necessarily -- when we take a look at the expanse of our business we are well diversified across our benefits business continue to be interested in growing that and making sure it continues to innovate and drive value from an organic point of view and to be in a position that where we see opportunities to expand that business that makes sense that lie into our strategic path that bring capabilities that bring market positions or scale.
That we will -- we would have an interest and I would imagine others will as well.
We have opportunities to also allocate capital to services and to international markets and we will have to assess those as well.
So I don't think it's -- my sense is that it requires a little bit more thoughtful reflection than just when will the reform run its course or not.
And I think that I'm impressed that across the space the businesses have been mature in terms of how they responded and I think everybody is focused at the opportunities at hand.
Our next question comes from Scott Fidel of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just to add 2 quick ones just first how much of the $200 million and the targeted Optum investment spend has now been completed through the 3Q? And how much remains for the fourth quarter? And then just secondly just I know it's very small for you guys in the overall context of things but just interested on Texas Medicaid.
That's been one of the states that has still been reticent to cover the industry fee.
And we've heard some mixed feedback from different plans on whether they expect to get paid on that or not.
So definitely very interested in whether you've heard something from Texas on whether you're going to get recouped for the industry fee this year.
So that will go from one side to the other.
So John you want to respond to the first? Yes.
Scott John Rex here.
So yes correct.
We've talked in the first half about the investments that we've been making particularly within the OptumInsight and OptumHealth businesses and we sized that up in the first half at $140 million talked about $200 million or more for the full year in terms of anticipating in investing those businesses.
So in the 3Q we would have invested an additional $60 million so we hit our $200 million.
I do anticipate that we will continue to spend in the fourth quarter albeit at a diminished rate.
However that is within the scope of our guidance where we've talked about our comfort with the high end of our $3.2 billion earnings range.
Austin? Sure thanks for the question.
I guess first of all I'd comment that we had great progress as you know in getting arrangements and agreements in place with our states on the recovery of this fee.
There is one instance as you mentioned that we don't have written agreement yet.
We do expect to be paid.
We expect all of these to come in before the end of the year.
We haven't recorded revenue in that one instance but we feel very good overall.
We'll take our next question from Kevin Fischbeck of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A couple quick questions on the individual exchange business.
I want to clarify something first.
You said that you expect it to be slightly below kind of the longer-term margin in that business of 3% to 5%.
But I think in the past you've talked about pricing that business to profitability kind of excluding the 3 Rs not relying on them to make a profit.
And I would think that if you are pricing that way then with the 3 Rs you would be at least at the -- that average number.
So I just want to clarify that before a follow-up on the exchanges.
Kevin it's Jeff Alter.
Yes so we're not exclusive of all of these Rs so we would not rely on corridors.
We will obviously rely on the reinsurance and the risk adjustment.
Risk adjustment is a big part of it.
So while we will get into that 3% probably closer to the 5% as the market matures we also recognize that it's still a market in development and our competitors that are already in the marketplace we need to be able to come in at a price point that attracts a little bit of growth but still profitability and then build into that marketplace.
So this is a long-term build for us but -- so just clarifying we will not rely on corridors but the other Rs are important parts of that business and risk adjustment will always be an important part of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is this a clarification then or is this something that now that you've seen the pricing and everything else that it's a little bit different? Or -- I just wasn't sure.
Kevin this is Gail Boudreaux.
I just want to sort of add on to Jeff's comment about what he said.
I mean it's not so much a clarification.
It's always been our long-term strategy.
We see this market as a really good growth -- long-term growth opportunity.
As we said in the last several calls we don't expect to rely on subsidies as part of that and we are pricing to profitability.
But in any new market as you enter a market we don't necessarily think that we'll see our 3% to 5% earnings range in the first year.
And again remember 75% of this market has yet to develop and we are seeing it firm and stabilize a little bit but it's still only the second year in the market.
But overall we went into this market with an expectation of earning a profit in it.
Research Division</strong> Okay because that was going to be my real question was just how do you think the [indiscernible] market is going to evolve in 2015? I mean do you think the CBO target of $13 million makes sense? And then how do you think about your positioning as I guess a strong second mover versus the incumbents? I mean in retrospect if you had known that membership would be 7.3 million would you have been more aggressive in year 1? Or I guess just any thoughts there.
No no.
We like where we are or we would have played this just exactly as we have.
We think the second vintage will be better.
The third vintage will be better after that.
This market will form.
It will be different market by market.
It will take time for it to evolve.
It will eventually evolve into about the profit margin range that we have been discussing.
We're not going to comment on CBO.
We have no idea from that point of view whose projections are correct.
So far all we can say is everybody's projections have been wrong.
And so we will just play this and participate as we see this market evolve which has been completely consistent with our perspective on this and we do anticipate too that we will participate in this a way that is sustainable from a growth and profitability point of view but we don't have that kind of mature margin assumption in your first couple years of participation and we really don't have a lot of this into our 15-year outlook but this is really just our introduction.
We expect to participate.
We expect to grow but we're not expecting tremendous profit out of that first year participation.
So I think that's ought to be the way you think about it.
Our next question comes from Andy Schenker of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So one of your peers just pulled out of the Delaware Medicaid program over a rate disagreement.
I believe you're the only other MCO in the program.
So first of all do you expect to enroll the 130 members next year? And then more broadly how are your rate discussions going for Medicaid next year in the areas of pushback on rates? Austin? This is Austin.
Thanks for the question.
We do have an agreement in place with Delaware.
We look forward to continuing to serve the people of Delaware and stay focused on being ready to do that.
I won't speculate on -- at this early date on where that membership will play out but overall we continue to feel confident in our relationships with our states our ability and proven track record in working with states to really serve those populations and deliver that long-term sustainability in that 3% to 5% margin.
And the states see value in that.
These are complex programs.
They're invested in them and Medicaid programs are continuing to establish themselves very well.
Yes I think the great growth that we've seen this year and our ability to work year-over-year with states is a reflection of the trust they've put in us to serve their populations.
And I think Medicaid has been one of the strong successes of the ACA effort.
Our next question comes from Ana Gupte of Leerink Partners.
Research Division</strong> The question's on the employer market and mix shift potentially in 2015 given the data points of Walmart which dumped I think 30 000 workers.
Some of your competitors are talking about small group under 10 dumping into exchanges.
But on the flip side the private exchange market and adoption's been slower from the recent [indiscernible] data points and there's an employer mandate 1/1/2015.
So are you looking at '15 as a big year of mix shift? And is there potential for disproportionate share gains for you because the band stickiness is not that great? And what are you assuming in your soft 2015 EPS guide of kind of in line with consensus? That's quite a question.
Gail do you want to start? Sure.
That is quite a question.
There's a number of things embedded.
Let me first talk about the mix shift question you had and take it in a couple of parts.
The first let me deal with your question on small employer dumping.
We don't -- we have not seen a lot of that.
We don't really expect an acceleration in that given how reform has laid out in some of the offerings that are still in the marketplace.
So I don't expect any significant increase in dumping although we do expect some decline in the mark which has been happening over time but not a significant dumping.
In terms of the overall market you mentioned employers getting rid of or taking down their part-time employees.
Let me start with our expectations around the large marketplace.
Overall the national account marketplace has been -- we feel positive about that marketplace.
We're pleased with our competitive position in it and we do expect better results in '14 than in '13.
We had a stronger close ratio.
But with that getting to your second question we do have a very focused strategy when there's an opportunity in exchanges to help convert some of our self-funded business to fully insure the exchanges and we are seeing some of that which comes out of our commercial enrollment.
And the other sector of the market that's happening is the retiree population is moving from the self-funded book of business particularly in our national accounts to our Medicare advantage our Medicare supplement and our Part D products.
And again we've been very successful in that in '14 and we expect to be successful in '15.
That's been a very specific strategy.
So those are the kind of changes going on in the market and we feel good about our positioning in that.
I'd say just the expanse the diversification of our benefits offerings suggest that even if there are shifts in the marketplace we're really well positioned to accommodate those shifts and I think pretty agile in that context.
Our next question comes from Carl McDonald of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> On the cost trend so sub 5% last year a little bit under 5.5% this year.
Can you walk through what's accounting for that call it 50 basis point increase this year versus 2013? Sure Carl this is Dan Schumacher.
One of the primary elements of the increase year-over-year is reform related.
We talked about that at the investor conference last December that as people moved into richer plans complied with community rating and so forth that was one of the elements that -- principal elements that drove the increase.
Thank you.
So I think we will close and as we close today I'd like to remind you that 2014 performance across both Optum and UnitedHealthcare remains strong through the first 9 months of the year and we expect to continue that consistent performance through the rest of 2014 and to remain in line with or ahead of our outlook that we shared with you today.
And in 2015 and beyond we expect our overall business performance will further strengthen and accelerate both top line and bottom line.
And we look forward to sharing more detail with you around 2015 performance at the Investor Conference on December 2 in New York.
So thank you for your attention today.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's UnitedHealth Group Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
You may disconnect your lines and everyone have a good day.
Good morning.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
A question-and-answer session will follow UnitedHealth Group's prepared remarks.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here is some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under the U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated January 21 2015 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the Company's Web site.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
We entered 2015 with momentum from a strong 2014 finish and with more growth opportunity and fewer impediments than we've encountered over the last few years.
We expect the strength of our performance capacities to become more visible in 2015 and even more so in 2016 and beyond as we begin to perform more consistently to the full potential of this enterprise.
In 2014 both top and bottom-line results exceeded the upper range of our original forecasts for the year.
2014 revenues grew 6.5% to exceed $130 billion and earnings grew to $5.70 per share despite material and well documented burdens from the ACA.
UnitedHealth Group's performance in 2014 was highlighted by diversified growth strong operating and medical cost management and continuing advances in service innovation and enabling technology positioning UnitedHealth Group to better serve more people and better respond to the demands of our evolving healthcare system in the coming years.
Cash flow from operations in 2014 exceeded $8 billion or 1.4 times net earnings with fourth quarter cash flows more than $2.4 billion a strong 1.6 times net earnings reflecting the core strength and quality of our business and earnings.
In 2014 we raised our dividend by 34% to an annual rate of $1.50 per share.
We repurchased $4 billion in UnitedHealth Group shares and return on equity once again exceeded 17%.
As we take a more detailed look at 2014 results UnitedHealthcare's revenues grew 5.3% to $120 billion.
This past year we experienced outstanding growth in Medicaid and better than expected performance across our Medicare portfolio balanced off by challenges in the commercial and international markets as we entered the year.
Beginning with Medicaid organic growth of more than 2 million people over the last five years including an exceptional 1 million new members in 2014 reflects a decade of strategic and operational decisions that have prepared us well to serve this ever expanding population in the states that entrust us to administer these programs.
The Medicaid market was the first created by and aligned for society's desire to expand care for the uninsured.
We have tuned our medical management and consumer engagement techniques to address the needs and experiences of these consumers.
Leveraging the in-market personal care approach we use today with dedicated on-the-ground resources embedded within the communities we serve.
Our footprint in the Medicaid market continues to grow.
Now reaching states where nearly 60% of the Medicaid community resides.
We combine a strong benefit value with deep trusting relationships serving the states and the people who rely on these programs and benefits.
Today our community and state business is well balanced serving people in more than 100 separate state programs from children with young families to duly eligible citizens with the most complex medical conditions.
We continue to steadily grow serving Medicaid with about 60% of our 2014 growth from market expansion and approximately 40% from traditional sources.
With year-over-year market share gains in existing programs and participation in new program launches.
We expect to continue this pattern of broad-based growth in 2015 with revenues expected to grow 15% to 17% this year.
In the senior and retiree market strong execution drove meaningful growth for UnitedHealthcare Medicare &amp; Retirement which added 295 000 seniors in Medicare supplement products and 215 000 people in standalone Part D.
In Medicare Advantage seniors continued to value and choose the modern benefits and support services they receive from managed care.
And as you know sustained government funding shortfalls for Medicare Advantage have hurt seniors cutting back their benefits and causing disruptions as products and markets were withdrawn across the industry in 2014 including more than 150 000 seniors impacted by our 2014 market and product exits.
Despite this pressure we grew to serve a net 15 000 more seniors in 2014 a small but hard won achievement.
We’ll be back to much stronger growth in 2015 as Medicare Advantage is expected to grow by 200 000 to 300 000 individuals.
With Medicare Supplement continuing its long standing growth pattern adding another 250 000 to 300 000 people.
As we will continue to serve seniors with our leading market position in Part D we see an overall Medicare revenue growth rate of 6% to 8% in 2015.
As expected commercial and international markets were more challenging for us over the past year but we believe this is beginning to turn as well.
In Brazil we grew revenues by just under 9% in 2014 with revenue lift provided by pricing changes and efforts to expand our geographic presence.
Price increases clearly pressured membership levels but are consistent with realigning our products for a sustainable marketplace going forward and we expect stronger market conditions in 2015.
At the same time Amil care delivery system of more than 30 strategically positioned acute care hospital facilities and over 50 clinical practices continues to grow and perform strongly.
We are advancing more modern analytics services and technologies across Amil’s unique integrated benefits in care delivery platform to better analyze and manage costs strengthen fundamental pricing and improve operational cost structures.
Amil has exceptional brand equity.
People recognize the quality of Amil’s hospitals and care facilities and consistent value its medical and general benefits offer.
Overall we expect revenues at UnitedHealthcare’s global businesses to grow 5% to 8% in 2015.
UnitedHealthcare commercial revenues retreated 4% in 2014.
In 2015 they will increase and the year is off to a strong start.
Consistent with the strategy we shared with you over a year ago we participated modestly in the individual exchange market in 2014 with the expectation of more significant participation as the market matured.
This year we are offering products in 23 state exchanges that are home to 54% of the U.S.
exchange market population.
This includes eight of the 10 largest exchange market states and 15 states where we also offer complementary Medicaid plans.
We’ve enrolled more than 400 000 individuals through individual public exchanges with four weeks of marketing still to go.
We are ahead of schedule reflecting the brand value and trust in the UnitedHealthcare name.
Growth in UnitedHealthcare’s small group and middle market group health business benefit businesses is also better than we had anticipated in a competitive but generally rational market landscape.
The self-funded Employer business is positioned for stronger growth and sales performance in 2015 as well as we continue to consistently deliver the combination of excellent service and innovation low medical cost trends and flexible customized approaches valued by the sophisticated large multi-market customer.
Looking at the broader picture UnitedHealthcare has consistently grown by offering differentiated value service and execution to its markets.
We’ve grown organically by more than 8 million people in the past five years.
We should grow to serve over a million more people in 2015 continuing UnitedHealthcare’s track-record as the fastest growing health benefit company in the nation.
We are confident UnitedHealthcare is positioned for continued growth including revenue growth of 6% to 7% in 2015.
UnitedHealthcare delivered strong operating and medical cost performance during the last year.
UnitedHealth Group’s consolidated medical care ratio continues to be the best overall metric describing medical cost performance across UnitedHealthcare’s diverse benefits businesses.
That consolidated care ratio of 80.9% improved 60 basis points in 2014 and we expect it to remain stable in a range of 80.8% plus or minus 50 basis points in 2015.
Medical cost trends in the commercial business were in the 5.5% zone for the year with great consistency and execution on medical cost performance across the UnitedHealthcare businesses.
Hospital usage per capita was lower overall again in 2014 and was lower across each of the UnitedHealthcare benefit businesses.
Moving to Healthcare Services Optum had a remarkable year in 2014 and is positioned to continue to perform strongly in 2015.
Revenues grew by 25% operating margins expanded to 6.9% and earnings grew by 32% once again above the upper-end of our expectations for the year.
Optum surpassed all of its initial 15-by-15 target return on invested capital margins and earnings all well ahead of schedule.
In 2015 earnings are on pace to triple since we embarked on the one Optum growth initiative a few short years ago.
The fourth quarter was exceptionally strong with earnings growth of 53%.
It was also something of a milestone surpassing $1 billion in operating earnings in a single quarter for the first time.
Throughout 2014 Optum increased the quality and depth of its strategic relationships in collaboration with clients and partners.
It combined good solutions with good execution for the complex problems faced by large sophisticated customers.
This included Optum’s assistance for the continued advancement at healthcare.gov and several state exchanges during the year.
The one Optum commitments to greater alignment consistent performance and cross-business simplification continued to develop well and resonated with people and customers Optum serves.
A quick profile that each of Optum business looks like this.
OptumHealth businesses are gaining momentum in the wake of investments made over the last several years.
We expect strong growth in earnings performance in the year ahead.
OptumHealth revenues increased by 11.9% and operating earnings grew by 15% in 2014 all while growing the numbers our practices operated and patients and payors served in the care delivery business.
Today Optum servers over 2 million consumers through owned and affiliated physician practices.
On the consumer side Optum is aggressively deploying better approaches and new technologies for consumer engagement health enrollment and personalized consumer service and support.
At OptumInsight 2014 revenues grew 10.9%.
Operating earnings grew by 21%.
And the external contract backlog rose nearly 20%.
OptumInsight’s $8.6 billion backlog provides a clear indication of the future revenue performance and services.
A prime example here is the unique Optum One analytics platform which brings together a clinical plain demographic and care management data to provide both backward and forward looking views of patient populations which are ripped with a rich and distinctive clinical encountered data set of over 55 million lives and expanding rapidly.
We expect to increasingly drive positive impact for care providers and the consumers they serve.
OptumRx grew revenues by nearly $8 billion or 33.2% and operating earnings grew by 67% in 2014 as benefits were realized from the transition of the UnitedHealthcare commercial pharmacy business.
OptumRx won external business awards to serve well more than 1 million people in 2014 and is tracking to a similar level of growth in 2015.
The secular trends toward more complex and expensive specialty medications play directly to Optum’s strength in synchronizing and integrating medical and pharmacy benefits providing uniquely personalized service.
Optum is advancing this approach with UnitedHealthcare commercial customers in 2015 and expects to see further market interest in its capabilities in 2016.
Looking forward to 2015 our expectations remain consistent with those we shared with you at our investor conference in early December.
We are off to a strong start with Optum pursuing large strategic relationships and the UnitedHealthcare’s domestic medical membership some 250 000 people ahead of our Investor Conference outlook as we close 2014 and with continued strength into early 2015 as we discussed earlier in our remarks.
For UnitedHealth Group we are projecting high single-digit percentage revenue growth in 2015 with earnings growth potentially reaching the double-digits at the upper-end of our earnings range.
Following established patterns we expect first quarter earnings to decrease sequentially from this quarter but perhaps not to the levels reflected in current analyst estimates.
From there we expect the second quarter to rise sequentially and quarters three and four to have smoother progression than in 2014.
We expect performance to further improve in 2015 in a number of key areas.
And let’s spend a minute on those areas of focus.
We expect to grow at a very solid pace capitalizing on market opportunities and commercial benefits Medicare and Medicaid as well as the continuing momentum of Optum.
Amil’s performance will strengthen in 2015 led by balanced pricing to address medical cost trends and the use of new approaches analytics and technologies to improve the total performance of both benefits in the care delivery businesses.
We are committed in 2015 to growing strengthening and deepening customer and consumer relationships at the enterprise-level across the UnitedHealthcare and Optum.
In this way the breadth of services and capabilities can be dedicated to meet the needs of the largest and most sophisticated customers of healthcare from the federal government to the U.S.
military to individual states national employers leading hospital systems life science companies and to increase our focus on national health systems in other countries.
This year we expect to significantly increase the number and quality of these important relationships that we are privileged to serve.
Excellence and consistency in operational execution will remain an important focal point everyday all year long enterprise-wide.
Already in late-December and January we quietly on-boarded over 5 million people to our newly developed rally consumer engagement digital health platform.
And almost 6 million to Advocate For Me our consumer support and service technology.
And nearly 400 000 physicians are now served through our cloud-based link service platform with a goal to reach 600 000 by year-end.
We expect to further advance these and other next-generation consumer-centric healthcare tools in coming months together with updates to our rapidly growing portfolio of mobile applications and cloud-based services these technologies will serve to enhance and modernize our overall consumer and care provider experience in 2015.
The key focal point within this area is our commitment to achieving four star or better performance for at least 80% of our Medicare Advantage customers by 2018 and 2015 is the year this work gets finished for 2018.
We expect to perform well on medical cost for our customers we deliver to our customers and members a valuable package of cost-effective network options and simple useful information about quality and treatment choices supported by consumer outreach and effective medical management.
In 2015 we foresee our volume of care delivered through value-based contracts exceeding $43 billion and as we help deliver improved cost and quality transparency.
In 2015 we will hold the strong financial disciplines.
We expect to return capital to shareholders through a rising dividend and consistent share repurchase while we maintain a discipline M&amp;A outlook to further strengthen our capabilities and scale to benefit customers and consumers.
Our brand equity and recognition will mature in 2015 with Optum and the UnitedHealthcare each refreshing their efforts to reach consumers and thought leaders across their health system.
We spoke at the December Investor Conference about a fresh vocabulary for our enterprise words like consumer and care provider value precision and consistency in our work simplicity driving the last mile in the integration of data services and transaction processes rapid adoption for innovation benefits serving consumers and care providers flexibility adaptability and a more urgent pace of change.
These things will become much more than words in 2015.
Every year brings challenges and 2015 will be no exception how we meet those challenges will define the character of our enterprise and its leadership team.
We expect to continue to build by focusing on serving our customers and serving you as our shareholders all year long guiding continued momentum in 2016 2017 and beyond.
We thank you for your interest this morning and we will now return to your questions just one per analyst please.
Thank you.
My questions are on the commercial risk market it certainly looked like membership stabilized in the fourth quarter here and Steve you talked about being ahead of plan early in the year.
Can you expand on what is driving that change in membership trajectory and give us an update on the pricing environment in general? Thanks.
Sure I think this morning I am going to ask Dave to kind of take point on the UnitedHealthcare elements of questions.
So Dave you want to take that and then engage the team? I’ll just maybe just make a couple remarks then I’ll quickly turn it to Jeff.
Thanks for noticing the progress we have made in the commercial risk market in the fourth quarter that carried over into Q1 as well and as you look at it it is both on and off exchange and I think you’ll hear from Jeff that we have very disciplined pricing as part of that as well so Jeff? Good morning Justin.
It's Jeff Alter.
Yes we had a really nice quarter in '14 and a really nice start to '15 primarily driven by our new products we have put into the marketplace in reaction to the beginning of 2014 in some of our challenges around price points.
So we worked really hard tried to create products that were tied to network design and benefit plans that saw a different value proposition to many of our markets.
We first began to see a churn in on membership profile around much better improved persistency of existing accounts then we saw some of our value around affordability helping our experience rated accounts and then as we moved into '15 I think our exchange expansion also helps create some additional products portfolio advancements off exchange that have been selling really well.
Your question around pricing as Dave mentioned our pricing remains consistent and stable.
I think that is also helping us as others are -- our pricing maybe a little bit to fix the shortfall in there past pricing efforts and I think the market remains as stable as we have talked about competitive and no real change to that portfolio of pricing across the various markets that we serve.
Yes maybe if I could ask you there to build on that and stay in the commercial market territory and maybe you can just tell us what you’re seeing in terms of the evolution of the small group market how much erosion if any you’re seeing with coverage whether that’s going to be exchanges or not? And then perhaps more broadly in commercial what you’re seeing within group retention with the economy strengthening? Jeff? We again '14 we were minor players in the exchange so we don’t have a lot of information.
I will tell you that I think it’s well within that range that we have talked about over the last couple of years a few percent of that small group market eroding into the exchanges at least at this point.
I think the growth in the exchanges both in '14 and in '15 are really driven by the uninsured and that expansion through the subsidy.
So we have not seen a significant erosion of our small group business just a reminder over the years that business has gotten to the point where roughly maybe 50% or 55% of those employers cover that’s down from maybe 60%-65% in the 90s so this is going to continued erosion of that market over the years.
I think you had a second question around our pricing environment? Well it was really around the -- whether you’re seeing some in group iteration whether you’re seeing trends stabilize and to what extent perhaps as a result of the strengthening economy? Our in-group attrition has flattened that is probably due to the economy and then earlier in the year we did have some in-group attrition that was related to the ACA that has leveled off.
Alright thank you.
We’re really seeing growth on the exchange off the exchange and in the self-funded marketplace too.
Correct.
So we’re really seeing pretty broad-based response to the offerings you’re putting out in this point of time.
Thanks.
I was going to shift to Optum Optum and in particular Insight had a really good fourth quarter margin.
I wondered if you could elaborate on that for us and the sustainability of that.
And then speaking about the Optum margin progression over the next few years toward the 8% goal? Larry? So Dave it’s Larry Renfro I’m going to ask Bill Miller to participate in this question as well.
So I think you probably recall that we had gone through our business plan this year from the start talking about how the fourth quarter would end with a couple of things going on.
We had a great fourth quarter with the $1 billion in earnings that Dave talked about but we were positioned for that quarter to have seasonality that’s our 40-60 split on our business for the year and the planned investments we expected to kick-in and to start to pay-off and OptumInsight would be a part of that and that’s Optum360.
And then we had a third area of simplification and integration on our products and my comment on that is that everything worked as planned.
We exceeded slightly the expectations we gave you at our December Conference.
So we’re off to a very strong fourth quarter and a great start.
I would also say that the question on the 8-by-15 we were on target we feel good about that.
The momentum going into 2015 is very strong obviously for us but it’s also very strong for our number one customer being UHC.
So we’re still firm and the ways that we’re good with the 8-by-15.
Bill any comments on Insight? Yes obviously it was a very strong quarter and I think it sets us up very well for '15 and beyond at backlog growth I think there is clearly a recognition that a few of the key things that we’re bringing to the marketplace and have invested in are maturing there is acceptance for example of the 360 side of our business which we talked a lot about which is our revenue management platform.
We’re well on our way to the customer acquisition that we target but more importantly and what’s exciting is the results that we’re generating for our clients are starting to come through in terms of their financial and operational performance.
We’ve made investments in data and strengthened our hand particularly from a clinical data standpoint that has clearly differentiated us.
We had a record quarter and expect another record year with sales new client acquisitions and revenue from our data differentiation both in the provider marketplace and in the life sciences arena as well.<br> Clearly we’ve added critical clients on the government side working with several states on exchanges.
And then finally I would say we’re really happy with our entry into the physician management business where we’re going into practices health systems helping them turnaround and help drive better performance quality in their physician practices.
We entered that market last year.
We’re very confident that that is going to be a strong contributor for the future of OptumInsight.
And so all of those things combined together I think show a lot of diversity in what we do a lot of areas to grow and feel pretty confident not only about 2015 but beyond.
You put forth on the Investor Day a view of cost trend rising 50 basis points faster than it did last year some of your competitors have put forth views of trend that's a little bit ahead of that.
Why should we not be concerned of perhaps some of the improving view and membership on the commercial business is it because you have perhaps underpriced that business? And specific to that in terms of cost trend can you talk about how your view on specialty pharma in particular Hepatitis C drugs is evolving this year relative to last year? Okay Peter it’s David and you’ve got a lot in there.
I am going to have Dan respond to you I will just maybe comment globally on our ability to manage medical cost and trend.
I think it's no surprise that we have been able to create distinction there vis-à-vis our competition for some time.
We do a very good job of controlling utilization and an excellent job as well in terms of taking a full review of our cost structures and putting it into our pricing which is the discipline we've applied for years now and I think it's consistently produced good results.
So Dan I’ll ask you to comment further.
Good morning Peter it’s Dan Schumacher.
So let me handle first the medical cost sides talk quickly about pricing and then a little bit on Hep C I think those are the three elements you are interested in.
Yes.
From a medical cost standpoint just kind of looking at 2014 broadly we’re very pleased with our medical cost performance.
And in the fourth quarter in particular we again came in a little bit better than what we had expected and that's true in our commercial business as well as in our government businesses.
As we look at the utilization under that more specifically that continues to be very well controlled Steve did mention that again this year we were able to drive an absolute reduction in our hospital usage per capita we did that in each business and that was the sixth consecutive year we've been able to drive an absolute reduction in hospital in patient usage per capita.
So when we put that all together from a commercial standpoint our cost trend for 2014 came in actually a little bit better than the 5.5% that we had guided to at the end of -- at the beginning of December as well as the low-end of the range we guided to a year ago.
As we think about our trend into the future we have assumed that we're going to see a moderate increase in utilization in each of our benefits businesses and that outlook is what informed our pricing as well as our benefit planning.
And I'll tell you with December behind us and the majority of January behind us as well we're not seeing any indication or evidence of an increase in utilization.
So we feel very comfortable with our forward outlook commercial cost trend for 2015 is 6% plus or minus 50 basis points.
Sitting here today we have 75% of our revenue for 2015 locked-in and the vast majority of that revenue comes from retained accounts those are customers that we have experience with and we understand their performance so we feel very comfortable with not only our cost trend outlook but also in relation to where we're positioned from a revenue standpoint in our commercial business.
Lastly you asked about Hep C.
Obviously that's a category of significant focus for a lot of people as of late.
In 2014 obviously we revised our expectations for cost coming out of the first quarter and I would tell you that we tracked very much in line with that over the balance of 2014.
As we look to 2015 we do expect an increase in those costs in each of our businesses we've reflected that and captured it in our outlook.
So we feel comfortable with where we are positioned.
Can you give us some specifics on how much cost increase you expect in 2015 and precisely what you are doing regarding negotiating between the various drugs in Hep C? What I’d tell you Peter is that we're constantly working to manage cost and drive greater value.
In this space we're pleased to see competition.
As we look at new product launches particularly in very high cost categories we have a very rigorous process it's a process that evaluates the clinical equivalency of the drugs.
We look at the effectiveness of each drug.
We design clinical programs to ensure appropriate use.
And then we obviously are looking at the PDL and formulary implications and then we're negotiating relationships that really drive the best value for our members and our customers.
So we don't talk specifically in this form about manufacturer relationships but rest assured we're all over this.
Thank you much.
So Peter just to maybe to close that out just to be clear and taking Jeff's comments earlier and Dan's comments now I think it's really our product positioning exercise that and possibly some firming of the market that's caused us to advance our business.
The other thing I’d -- so I think you can conclude that we're not under pricing the business.
The other thing you can look at is our relative MTTR performance for the fourth quarter versus the full year.
And if you look at that you will see that that we're performing better in Q4 than we did for the full year we have performed very well for the full year but you can see some acceleration in performance as well.
So hopefully that closes out that issue we’re not surprising.
So if I’m doing my math here correctly let’s say you guys are forecasting about 19% to 20% growth in value-based care or care delivery on your value-based contract maybe if you could talk about a little bit how that’s split between commercial Medicare and Medicaid? And also how those value-based contracts are impacting both your enrollment are you seeing outsiders enrollment in those products and then also around your expectations around cost trends? Thank you.
Okay I’ll have Dan comment on this obviously it’s a key area of focus for us to align incentives with delivery system really anchored on advancing quality of healthcare first but also improving the affordability of it Dan? So your math is right.
Yes we are expecting about a 20% increase in the concentration of value-based reimbursement.
And going from -- we ended the year at about $36 billion of spend in value-based arrangements and we’re looking to drive that north of $43 billion in 2015.
And in terms of the underlying businesses we’re seeing double-digit growth in all three of our businesses so I wouldn’t highlight anyone individually.
We’re looking to make progress across the spectrum and across the benefits landscape.
And we’re seeing contributions to enrollment as a result of those relationships where we partner more distinctly with certain delivery system partners.
And on the cost side we’re also seeing the outcomes there.
We talked at the Investor Day I know we had a breakout seminar to talk about driving 1% to 6% aggregate savings from our value-based reimbursement approaches and then within that obviously the numbers can be significant based on how they’re designed and as well as how tightly they are aligned around quality and performance and outcome.
So we’re very pleased with our progress there.
We’re focused on it in 2015 and we’ll be in '16 and beyond.
I think it’s important to note the orientation of the quality.
And the fact that the structure actually drives volume towards the better providers that enter into these performance contracts and that we’re progressing these contracts into more sophisticated forms where they’re actually taking on even greater performance responsibility overtime.
It sounds like a very confident 2015 outlook.
I wonder if you could share with us a bit more commentary on your operating cost ratio.
Fourth quarter’s result was relatively high driven by the obvious but do you think you see that improving in 2015 much like the rest of your business? And where should it go over the next three years? Thanks.
Hey Dave do you want to address that? Tom Dave Wichmann.
So a couple of things first our operating care cost ratio for the quarter was a little bit elevated at 125 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
As you know this is mainly influenced by the insurers fee which amps up that ratio by about 120 of the basis points but what has been pretty persistent in our business is the mix has shifted more towards services.
And when you see that mix shift it tends to put a lot of pressure on this ratio.
And so then that increases it even further and then our productivity efforts bring it back down and we’ve seen productivity well managed across our business not only offsetting those impacts but also inflation broadly.
As we look to 2015 the same dynamics play out.
We have a little bit of an uptick in the insurers fee which further presses this ratio but we also see continued growth in Optum and in our fee-based business overall which tends to press this forward as well.
And then we continue to offset that with productivity improvements year-over-year.
And we do expect the ratio to be somewhere around 17% plus or minus 30 basis points for next year.
And we believe our running physicians supports that.
Thank you.
Next please next question.
Moderator do you have another we have answered all the questions this morning? So we may be having some technical difficulties we’re going to.
Hello? Well UnitedHealth Group is still here I don’t know about the rest of the world at this moment.
Optum360 and particularly for OptumInsight seems to be tracking kind of ahead of even what you were expecting last month.
Is there any change to your Optum expectations relative to what we saw at your Investor Day? And then also what are you expecting in terms of margins on your individual memberships on the public exchanges? Thanks.
Well that’s an interesting combination question Christine.
So I’ll have Larry take the Optum side and then we’ll respond to the margins on the public exchange business.
Christine I believe that we are right on target with where we planned to be right now with Optum360 from what I’ll call the planned investment side as well as the implementation operation.
I think you know we have Dignity Health and NovaSure as two of our prime customers here.
And nothing has really changed from the investor conference.
We were positioning everything to happen in the fourth quarter just as it came through.
I don’t know Bill if you have any comments? No I think much has changed.
I think our business will depending on what happens with the ICD-10 changes this year they didn’t happen last year we overcame that if they don’t happen this year we are prepared one way or another but I think we are optimistic and see certainly a pipeline that would lead us to believe that not only are we on target but we have got a chance to work ahead but I’d say nothing has changed since the investors conference.
And I would say just in terms of customer acquisition we have always said kind of across our business that we were looking for these eight to 10 rich and deep relationships and I think if you look across all of the customers that we have acquired not only in 360 but beyond we are halfway to that goal and we feel very good about achieving that and certainly we don’t see anything in '15 slowing us down to achieve that.
Christine maybe I could it’s Larry again let me talk about the 10 relationships that Bill mentioned.
We have named two as we go forward some of our customers they do not like to be identified because of competition and so some of the visible ways of looking at that half that we have right now would be to look at Optum360 it would be to look at our business in the government solutions area and you could look at Optum One our data analytics area and you could look at Optum Lab.
So there is some other metrics that I think are going to be important to look at from this customer acquisition standpoint.
And I am going to ask John Rex maybe hit some of those metrics as well.
Good morning Christine John Rex here.
So a few other things that we’d looked at in terms of helping illustrate how we are progressing towards that goal of be it larger relationships.
The average if we look at since the last couple of years average deal size within OptumHealth is up 80%.
Revenue from our top-25 customers within Optum is up 2.4 times.
The number of customers with over 100 million in annual revenue has doubled.
We’d point to external backlog going up nearly 20% and a pipeline that about doubled over the last year.
So those are other metrics we look to to help illustrate the impact that we are having and gaining these types of relationships.
I’ll let Jeff respond to public exchange question.
Good morning Christine it’s Jeff Alter again.
On in build exchange we built for our initial years to margin of 1% and 2% without any reliance on the risk orders but we believe longer-term it’s 3% to 5% business and like everything else well endeavored to be in the top-end of that range as we go forward.
Just staying on the public exchanges can you maybe give us a little bit of an update on how enrollment is tracking? I think you talked about it being in excess of 400 000 so just wondering if you’d expect to sort of exceed the 400 000 to 500 000 range.
Maybe if there is any disproportion in enrollment in any state that you are in? And then lastly recently in California it sounds like you tried to get in statewide for 2016 but were denied is the plan just to kind of revisit that in 2017 or are there alternatives you are seeking to still get into that market before that? Thanks.
Good morning Ralph it’s Jeff Alter again.
So let’s start with yes we have had about over the 400 000 level in signups.
We still feel comfortable within that range that we gave in at the investor conference between 400 and 500 by at this point I might think more around the 500 and depending on how the next week or so plays out we could be that but right now we feel comfortable within that range.
The good news for us is we are growing where we said we would grow which is growing a little bit more in some of those markets than we thought.
So at investor conference we talked about some of the bigger markets where we thought we could grow and do well and that’s where we are growing and doing well.
So along with our plan that is where the growth is coming in.
Now obviously in California we are disappointed we wanted to bring more choice and options to the residents to California we believe competition is good for them unfortunately we were not able to get agreement from that Board to be in all markets we did get granted a few markets where there are and as many carriers as they would like we will -- we are reviewing that now so we might be in California in '16 but in a small handful of markets and we will go back in '17 we believe choices and competition are good for all markets including California.
And you anticipate that you’ll expand your portfolio markets in the next year? Yes outside of California we are working now to expand our footprint into the other markets that we happen to -- we didn’t serve in '15.
But you’ll do that in measured ways it's not all those… Yes we are reviewing those markets now we’ll make some final decisions and let you know.
The other thing that’s nice is not only just selling right in the markets that you wanted but you also sold the products that you thought would sell right? Correct.
Maybe just ask about the Medicare Advantage obviously you're looking forward acceleration growth I think 200 000 to 300 000 enrollment though was the target at the Investor Day it looks like in January with some of the open enrollment season in Europe 165 000 adds please comment on what you're seeing so far in the open enrollment season and whether that’s really ahead of your expectations inline and any sort of qualitative comment about the market environment and then any early thoughts on the 2016 rate notice? It's Dave I think we’ve -- the team has done a nice job of really reestablishing growth in the Medicare Advantage individual aligned but -- and we have continued our very nice growth on the group MA front as well but I’ll ask Steve Nelson to comment overall on your questions.
Good morning A.J.
it's Steve Nelson.
Yes we are very pleased with not only how we ended the year but how we performed in AP.
As Dave indicated we drove really strong growth in our group Medicare Advantage business and I would say market leading growth actually so really pleased with that.
But we expect full year growth in our individual membership as well and that’s particularly -- we’re particularly excited about that because of the work we’ve done with reshaping our network and you're seeing premiums broadly into our portfolio and we are able to grow in the markets that were key to us such as Florida New York and Texas and Southern California.
So really off to a nice start and I would say also we’ve saw some really good results and nice start to Medicare stuff as well.
And across those two products really again off to a good start good place to be in fact maybe a little bit ahead of what we were thinking and so we feel really good about the ranges that we offered in last December and still get about those ranges.
In terms of the 2016 rates there is a lot of variables that go into the final rate as you know and so you don’t really speculate on that but I will offer that our position has been -- that it’s just a very successful and valuable program to seniors and it’s had great results in medical costs and improving outcomes.
Member satisfaction is up and the program is growing.
So we remain strong advocates for our seniors and their healthcare and we hope and expect that the rates when they are finally published will be fair and appropriate.
Overall we’re really pleased with the positioning of our Medicare business and how we’re heading into 2015.
We may have time for about two more questions.
So we could take a look at that maybe two more questions.
So next please.
Maybe just two on the MA side of things can you talk a little bit about the stars and how your analysis of what stars has meant for enrollment in 2015 are you seeing better enrollment in the places where you have four stars are you seeing real issues and competitors have really moved up on the stars in the individual side in 2015? And then also and obviously you’ve grown group very significantly for 2015 do stars matter as much when we think about the group business or is that something that overtime you think that it will impact how group perceives the product as well? Maybe I’ll start on this I’d like to make it clear that we believe stars matters and that we’re focused on improving our performance in stars and I think we have been very consistent on that theme.
It's not clear that that has had really an impact with respect to how the product is marketed or acquired in markets but we do believe that it is important -- overtime obviously important from a financial point of view important in terms of our relationship with CMS who basically established those performance guideline.
So I want to make it clear that we are committed to stars performance but it’s not clear and I maybe see Nelson to comment that that has had really a particular impact in terms of market response to product offerings right? Sure.
No hi it’s Steve Nelson.
You’re right Steve stars obviously is a factor but it’s one of many and it’s very -- the benefit of planning processes is one that has a lot of factors in it and we take all those things into account as we look at the results that we’ve achieved in AP that is very much in line with our expectations and stars doesn’t particularly spike out as the core driver to any of those results again it’s across so many factors and a lot of including your brand positioning your brand strength strength of the distribution the engagement you have with providers and again that is how you design the product.
So there is a lot of factors in there on the group side stars is important it allows you to price competitively and our group membership has enforced our plans and so that adds to our ability to grow that membership and thus contribute it to that.
Well I guess the question is if 2018 feels like a long way away in many respects so do you think that you’ll be able to go nicely even until you get to that target you don’t need to get four stars to continue to go in the MA business in the meantime? No we don’t.
And one thing that really hasn’t been mentioned this morning is that we are clearly in the zone of our growth expectations for MA and we’ve actually advanced premiums in a significant way and to basically to be able to go through that right Steve? Right and so advantage is pretty impressive.
And I think bodes well because I think the large portion of establishing premium products in markets a lot of that work got done this year.
I want to get back to the commercial business and I guess the question is just sort of about the landscape of employers commercial employer contracts basically what are they looking for in terms of products and then have you guys quantified the Optum impact whether there is a cross-sell of Optum products or you mentioned Rally and Advocate For Me and a couple of these others you’ve measured this in new wins or higher retention levels and just broadly what’s changing in that landscape where United is now seeing sort of that inflection point on commercial growth? So I’ll have Jeff respond to that I do think that the content of the Optum product in the UnitedHealthcare offering clearly in the way in which supply clearly makes a distinctive difference but has a lot to do with the way in which it’s applied in the offering but Jeff? Good morning Josh it’s Jeff Alter.
So I think again from most everyone of our clients and employers in general this is a very important benefit for them to believe so they look for the value that can be provided but it’s also one of their more expensive items so they look for a partner who can work with them over the long-term to keep affordability in mind but also deliver great products service and innovation and that’s when if you think about the combination of UnitedHealthcare and Optum together working in partnership with the clients and their consulting and their brokerage create that plan that works for that employer across sort of a very long time stamp.
We believe we are uniquely positioned to deliver anything at any point for that client as their business changes and their dynamics change.
We’re able to bring in consumer products that Optum builds obviously our close tie to OptumRx now that specialty medicine is becoming a cross-factor having the close relationship that we have with OptumRx to embed that inside the medical benefit is vitally important for the value proposition that the employer is looking for.
And then across the spectrum into OptumHealth our disease management wellness programs our consumer engagements employers have spent considerable amounts of money to have disease management wellness programs and are looking for more engagements and the work that Rally and OptumHealth does to go beyond just by creating an offering but actually get that engagement and get that uptake to keep people healthier and engaged in their wellness is vitally important.
So I think what we’ve seen is the marketplace has stabilized over the last year or so is that that view from employers looking for a longer term partner who can work with them to create an even more valuable benefit plan an offering for their employees but also be mindful of the cost factors that are involved in it.
Yes something to really match the breadth of their offerings and the innovation dynamic and the reliability of continues innovation continues focus on technology so that you are building value year-after-year-after-year which plays a lot to the retention rates you have too.
So good question and great response so thank you very much for joining us this morning kind of to sum up 2014.
UnitedHealth Group had a clearly a very strong year in '14 and momentum of the business grew throughout the course of the year so that we ended the year perhaps our strongest point and have brought that strength into the beginning of 2015 and through consistent execution and consistent focus on performance serving customers the people that we serve continuing to drive innovation matched with a strong financial disciplines we expect our growth to accelerate in 2015 and beyond.
We thank you very much for joining us this morning and we will see you next quarter.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
I will be your conference operator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
A question-and-answer session will follow UnitedHealth Group's prepared remarks.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here is some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated April 16 2015 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the Company's website.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Mr.
Stephen Hemsley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
This morning we are going to continue in our efforts to keep our formal remarks brief allowing more time to respond to your questions.
We are also going to freshen things up a little and share portion of today's formal commentary between Dave Wichmann our President; and Larry Renfro our Vice Chairman.
I'll start out with the recap of the quarter.
Net earnings in the quarter grew 33% to $1.46 per share on revenues of $35.8 billion.
What is important is what lies inside these results.
Higher revenue growth more consistent performance in operating discipline and margins strength across UnitedHealth Group's broad strategically diversified set of businesses.
Operating cash flows were $2.3 billion for the quarter 1.6x net income.
Revenue and earnings performance from UnitedHealthcare were the biggest contributors to better than expected first quarter cash flow.
This quarter builds on the second half 2014 momentum we discussed with you before.
We expect that momentum to continue with second quarter earnings per share growing nicely from this past quarter's results and being modestly above current consensus estimates.
At this range we see second and third quarter earnings being more even stronger in the second quarter and lighter in the third and current consensus would suggest this pattern would better fit our current business trends and outlook.
We are advancing our 2015 full year outlook taking revenues to $143 billion a $2 billion increase and a nearly 10% year-over-year growth pace.
Net per share earnings advanced to a new tighter range of $6.15 to $6.30 per share and an 11% year-over-year gain at the upper end despite absorbing $0.10 per share and attributed to Catamaran transaction cost and the impact of reducing our level of share repurchase going forward.
The increase in revenue and earnings modestly improves our outlook for cash flow from operations by $200 million on the lower end of the new range of $8.2 billion to $8.4 billion.
Now I'll ask Larry to review Optum.
Then ask Dave to pickup with UnitedHealthcare and some UnitedHealth Group better price items.
Larry? Thanks Dave.
Optum's revenues grew 14.7% to $12.8 billion in the quarter with operating margins stable year-over-year at 5.8% despite more than 30 basis points of acquisition costs.
Optum's earnings from operations grew 14% to $742 million in the quarter with every reporting unit producing double-digit percentage earnings growth.
Catamaran acquisition costs reduced Optum's year-over-year earnings growth by seven percentage points in the quarter.
Setting aside these transactions costs Optum would have produced 21% earnings growth for the quarter.
We expect Optum to post strong earnings growth in 2015 and after fully absorbing Catamaran acquisition costs we continue to forecast operating earnings within the range of $3.75 billion to $3.85 billion.
This will be growth of at least 50% over two years from a base of less than $2.5 billion in 2013.
We continue to build our capabilities in important ways this quarter particularly our relationships starting with Catamaran.
The proposed Catamaran combination brings obvious benefits to the markets and customers we serve.
It will create a competitively scaled channel-agnostic PBM focused on growing and serving all prescription market segments.
It will advance the next generation’s synchronized PBM where all clinical data points are connected and drug considerations are fully integrated with clinical care processes to produce better outcomes and better overall cost trends.
This will be important as the age of specialty pharma emerges along with inevitable biosimilar counterparts.
People will be served better benefit and program sponsors will benefit from both the more progressive synchronized care offering as well as from sharing the meaningful savings achieved from combining these two enterprises.
Integration disruption can be avoided since the two companies already share a common technology.
We believe this can quickly becomes the next generation clinically-informed clinically-anchored PBM.
Looking forward our Optum team is driving meaningful growth in customer pipeline for all Optum business segments.
Optum's external revenue backlog grew 24% in the quarter to drive overall backlog to over $9 billion.
Optum continues to develop broader relationships with more sophisticated clients who need end-to-end solutions to the complex challenges they face.
For example Optum 360 has added sizeable and distinguished new partners most notably North Shore-LIJ Health System and the Mayo Clinic.
And in the U.K.
Optum International became one of the very few organizations to be accredited to serve under the NHS lead provider framework as the NHS procures an expected $1 billion of commissioning support annually.
Optum labs recently added Yale University as a partner and research from the lab has now been accepted for publication in the Journal of the American Medical Association and the British Medical Journal.
Finally this quarter we launched an important new brand campaign for Optum to help further build understanding of our services and innovation.
Now let me turn it over to Dave.
Thank you Larry.
Turning first to UnitedHealthcare first quarter revenues grew 11.5% to $32.6 billion net operating margin improved 100 basis points year-over-year to 5.8% reflecting strong performances in all businesses commercial Medicaid Medicare and global.
Each of the first quarter care ratios improved year-over-year and were better than our plans for the quarter.
The combination of strong growth across of all diversified benefits business and even more effective medical and operating cost performance produced a 35% increase in UnitedHealthcare's quarterly earnings from operations to $1.9 billion.
The headline for UnitedHealthcare in the quarter is growth growing organically to serve 1 million more people in the United States in the first quarter alone and 1.6 million more people year-over-year with notable strength this quarter in the seniors and commercial businesses.
We are increasing our projections for organic growth and domestic medical benefits by about 600 000 people from our investor conference outlook to approximately 1.4 million people in 2015.
The increased outlook is driven by stronger market response to our expanding commercial benefits product portfolio.
In the first quarter UnitedHealthcare's commercial business grew nicely serving 680 000 more people.
Growth included 570 000 public exchange consumers well ahead of our expectations.
In our earnings outlook and as we have said before we do not expect meaningful financial contributions from these customers in 2015.
On the international side UnitedHealthcare is underwriting and pricing to create both sustainable customer value and sustainable margins and is scaling to deliver results.
Amil our Brazilian Healthcare Company produced improved financial results on a better mix of business with revenues growing 12% year-over-year on a local currency basis.
Medicaid membership exceeded plan even with the expected decreases in Tennessee where the state introduced a third plan into the market.
UnitedHealthcare grew its Medicare businesses in the first quarter by another 380 000 people split pretty evenly between Medicare Advantage and supplemental benefits.
Two weeks ago CMS issued its final Medicare Advantage rate notice for 2016 while these rates will help provide some needed stability for seniors who continue to enroll in Medicare Advantage in record numbers the rates simply did not keep up the pace of medical cost increases.
We will continue to make the case on behalf of the millions of seniors we served for sound and stable approaches to Medicare Advantage funding in the future.
Before we sum up let me run through a short punch list of non-financial highlights for the quarter for UnitedHealth Group as a whole.
During the quarter we invested in brands and reputation broadly across UnitedHealth Group including the brand campaign Larry mentioned for Optum and the successful introduction of UnitedHealthcare's own fresh branding effort.
Both have generated favorable responses and we will build on these throughout the year.
We are getting scaled market traction on several innovation efforts Rally our digital consumer health platform now reaches nearly 9 million Americans across the broad spectrum of employers health plans and associations and as improving consumer engagement we plan to expand to nearly 30 million people by this time next year including consumers in Brazil.
Link the secured cloud based workspace for care providers now reaches nearly 425 000 care providers and expect to reach 600 000 or more by this time next year.
We continue to advance higher quality lower cost care with our delivery system partners on behalf of those we serve.
Medical spending under value based arrangements grew nearly 30% year-over-year to nearly $40 billion annual run rate.
This was an active quarter in terms of acquisition and capital deployment we will fund these efforts from internal resources and debt and we had maintained our credit ratings.
And lastly the UnitedHealth Foundation continues to engage in a focused manner with communities in need.
As example the foundation recently announced substantial support for an innovative community care program in Maricopa County Arizona pioneering medical education and services in the Rio Grande Valley of Texas and a technology initiative in Tennessee that connects patients with care professionals through community health centers via telemedicine.
And OptumRx crossed the $10 million milestone in prescription drugs donated to Community Health clinics in Kansas.
Steve? Thanks David.
So as we look forward I hope you sense an acceleration on a broad and disciplined set of initiatives.
So as we look forward I hope you sense an acceleration on a broad and discipline set of initiatives in our consumer capabilities brand and reputation for both UnitedHealthcare and Optum payment reform and progressive services to better support care providers innovation and its more meaningful larger scale market deployment strategic M&amp;A large far-reaching next-generation strategic relationships information driven research in social and philanthropic efforts aligned to the communities we serve.
And all these funds and more we intend to pick up our pace with thoughtful urgency and improve performance and consistency.
So as we grow we become a more effective enabler of a better healthcare system and serve more people with better outcomes to the prudent use of society’s healthcare resources.
And now to recap our 2015 outlook for $143 billion in revenues accelerates our revenue growth rate to nearly 10% this year with improvements coming from both UnitedHealthcare and Optum.
Our earnings outlook of $6.15 to $6.30 per share includes $0.03 per share of transaction cost this quarter from Catamaran and an additional $0.07 per share of pressure over the balance of this year principally due to repurchasing less than half of the UnitedHealth Group shares we had targeted before this combination.
For 2016 we continue to project core earnings growth and that the Catamaran combination will be $0.30 per share accretive to those earnings even while carrying $0.20 per share in amortization expenses.
Savings and accretion are expected to grow further in 2017 and 2018 improving value for customers and earnings visibility for shareholders for a multi year period.
Today we continue to have strong access to capital in both the equity and debt markets.
We believe we can continue to participate positively and fully as both the health benefits and health services markets continue to evolve both domestically and internationally.
And we remained focused on developing and expanding our capabilities and businesses both for UnitedHealthcare and Optum as market opportunities present themselves.
We expect to maintain our approach to advancing our dividend to more market based levels exactly as we have discussed this area of capital allocation with you previously no changes are contemplated in that respect.
With that I thank you and we will now open up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we can take our first question from Scott Fidel with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Just interested if you could give us some perspectives on what you are seeing in terms of PMPM Healthcare utilization in the quarter which seemed with MLRs improving across the segment that it remains well controlled but it’s clear there’s been some conflicting data points out there showing that there maybe has been some broader market increases to utilization HCA pre-announcing yesterday for example with strong admission volumes.
So just interested in your perspectives on what you are seeing with utilization and how to sync across some of those different data points we're seeing? Sure Scott.
I think Dan Schumacher can best respond to that.
Good morning Scott thanks for the question.
I guess I wouldn't comment specifically on PMPMs but I would say that in the quarter we were very pleased with our medical cost performance.
As we talked about at the Investor Conference as we formulated our forward trend outlook and we thought about how we priced and positioned our benefits for 2015 we assume that we thought it made sense to assume a moderate increase in underlying utilization.
And I’ll tell you in the first quarter there has not been any acceleration in underlying utilization.
I think we've done well as an organization through our focused medical cost management initiatives and also I think we're seeing benefits from greater consumer responsibility as well as as we continue to drive greater concentrations as Dave mentioned in value based reimbursements.
So as we look at the balance of the year we expect our full year commercial medical cost trend to be in the range of 6% plus or minus 50 basis points and I would orient you towards the lower half of that range.
And I think we have pretty good visibility on that we have daily census so I think maybe some of things that are coming forward might have something to do with fact that 18 more million people have coverage and are using the system in a more structured way than the past and I think that maybe a factor in what you’re seeing Scott.
Next question please? And we can take the next question from Michael Baker with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks a lot.
Given the pending purchase of Catamaran I was wondering if you could give us a better sense or more color around your approach to differentiate on specialty pharmacy management and then any willingness by the PBM consultant community to change their approach to scoring vendors given the change from pharmacy benefit management to drug benefit management? Sure I think that's a great question and I will have Larry pick it up but particularly the strength of OptumRx’s synchronization efforts to really able to connect data target individuals engage them particularly as specialty pharma emerges it really is a tremendous opportunity for us to distinguish ourselves and the cost of that category is such that it would be hard for us to believe that the customer community as well as the consultant community will not be sensitized to that category of cost.
Larry? Hi Mike it's Larry Renfro and I'm going to start and I’m going to turn it over to Tim Wicks who is currently the CEO of OptumRx soon to be the President of the new OptumRx and I will have him comment on specialty but maybe I can start by giving you a little bit of our thought process as we put the two companies together.
We really looked at I know where the value was going to be and we really had five categories number one would be scale number two would be enhanced technology three would be distinctive capability such as specialty and synchronization and we’ll comment on specialty as you ask.
Number four would be our - we end up with a well-rounded management team from both a - what I'll call relationship sales as well as operations customer service and then the complementary businesses that kind of line up all together.
So that’s kind of how we went at this.
Obviously specialty is a very very important aspect of going forward in the future as we talked about earlier in the script.
So I’m going to hand this off to Tim now and he will give you some thoughts.
Great thank you.
Thank you Larry.
Michael first of all we welcome scoring related to drug costs as opposed to simply straight up pharmacy discount rates and what differentiates us in the specialty pharmacy area and why we’re competitive first of all relates to trend management and work that we do around trend management and it really gets to all of the levers around synchronization and what we do to integrate medical clinical and lab data with pharmacy data and to be able to bring that to bear to surround the consumer with all of those capabilities that help them make better decisions help them be adherent to their drug regimen and to be able to engage and program to help them improve their health.
We also think that the approach that we take to site of care and being agnostic as to whether the specialty drug is managed in the medical benefit or the pharmacy benefit is very important and then we also take advantage of site-of-care management so that we are agnostic to that as well and we drive it to the best place of care for the consumer.
Thanks for the update.
Thank you.
Next question? Our next question comes from David Windley with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi maybe a follow-up on the Catamaran thought process so Larry your 8% margin goal for next year there is I think you and John have talked about there maybe some variance in how you progress towards that goal depending on the mix of business obviously Catamaran brings in a pretty significant shift in the mix of that business.
Could you talk about how that affects your thoughts and your trajectory toward that 8% margin goal? Sure that's good point.
I’m going to ask John to speak to this as well.
We had this goal of 8/16 and there were some various factors or components that we needed to really make as part of that overall goal.
First thing was what you are coming on is 8% by 2016.
We also said that we would double 2013 earnings of $2.5 billion by 2018 we said we would have 8 to 10 large more complex relationships and that we would have double-digit top and bottom line growth through 2016.
So I’m going to define that as kind of core business kind of pre-Catamaran and I would tell you that everything from a financial standpoint is in line or ahead of expectations.
So we’re going to continue to track our core business that way as far as the 8/16 goal that we set now.
As you know the blend has changed with what we’ve done in this transaction so we’re going to be handling a lot more pharmaceutical business so that’s going to change the mix and I’m going to let John talk about that.
David this is John.
So as Larry stated our 2015 performance to-date which show us solidly tracking to that 8/16 goal and we are very much committed to that 8/16 goal we put up as we think about our base businesses and how that configures.
When we plan as an organization we plan for organic growth and that is how we got to configure our objectives and how we point the organization.
So clearly that 8/16 is very much focused on our core businesses organic growth we are tracking to that and we are still completely committed to that.
Certainly your point is well taken adding an excess of $20 billion of pharmacy care services revenue changes the mix and I would expect that to change the mix as we think about kind of a 16 and where that lands.
But we as an organization are completely committed to 8/16 on the core businesses and that's where we will be tracking on the core base ex the impact of the additional pharmacy care services revenue.
And then the merger will dilute that down but you will stay on track for your core commitments on the core business.
Okay great.
So thanks for that question next one please.
Our next question will come from Sarah James with Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I was impressed with the guidance particularly after observing the Catamaran cost and I think it's the first time United boosted guidance early in the year since 2012 can you talk about the level of confidence you have heading into the year as it is maybe greater or there is less unknowns than the last few years that led you to in earlier guidance boost and any headwinds or tailwinds that you could light up for us that would be helpful.
Thank you.
I’m so more confused I don’t think we are doing anything differently in terms of this we - I think kind of update our outlook every quarter we have seen enough strength and growth in the businesses across the board to improve that guidance slightly and to absorb the costs associated with Catamaran and the adjustment to our share repurchase given that transaction.
So we thought that that was appropriate to include in the update and beyond that I don’t think we are changing anything else along those lines.
We typically if we see that consensus estimates don't necessarily line up with exactly with way we are seeing our quarter-by-quarter roll out we typically comment on that and if again done that this quarter.
So I don’t think we’ve done anything differently this quarter along those lines.
So and if we did - if you're picking up anything we didn’t intend anything behalf of what we said.
So can you help me with what you think has changed.
I just saw the EPS increase was bigger this year than first quarter of the last few years but maybe if you could just spike out the headwinds and tailwinds as we see them for 2015? Well I think that in terms of our business I think our outlook is actually pretty positive I think that we’re seeing growth across our businesses I think we had nice momentum as we came out of 2014 and of kind of carry that into 2015.
When we take a look at strength of the businesses I think our Medicare offerings are stronger this year.
And we've had I think what we expected to be in terms of first quarter growth there.
The Medicaid business continues to be very strong maybe a little stronger than what we have thought in the beginning we knew we were going to lose portion of the state of tendency but our other growth kind of pulled that to virtually even strong growth in the commercial business.
So we had nice growth across UnitedHealthcare and we’ve had continued strong growth across Optum Amil as showing some initial signs of strengthening and recovering they've done a nice job down there and they have really done I think an exceptional job of embracing some of the best breed of what both the organizations do.
So along those lines I think we have mostly a positives.
We continue to - we had hoped for stronger MA rates and funding I think that will be a consistent thing.
We continue to work on our improving our business and our business disciplines but I do think we’re making very good progress on medical cost management operating cost.
So across the Board as I go through the inventory I think we're - I believe in a stronger place than we have been in sometime and the first quarter results pulled that through and so we’ve updated an outlook and I wouldn’t suggest it’s anything more than that.
Thank you.
Next question? And our next question comes from Andy Schenker with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
So you clearly saw a good success and exchange enrollment beyond your initial expectations.
Maybe you could just discuss the factors around pricing and product design in your minds that led the enrollment success.
And also maybe any early reads on those exchange lines versus your expectations.
Thanks.
Sure it's still early but I have Jeff Alter maybe comment on that.
Thanks.
Good morning Andy it’s Jeff Alter.
As we kind took you through our plans starting back in 2013 of how we were going to view the exchanges and look at 2014 as the year of learning and build kind of quickly rapidly as the market developed I think the results that we saw in that in our initial enrollment year of 2015 one of result of kind of that longer term strategic plan and we - as we mentioned during our Investor Conference really looked hard at how people bought what they were buying what was successful and designs product and networks that could create price points that were sustainable over the long-term.
And I think as you look at where we got our membership it tie very nicely to where we said we thought we would get on membership and maybe we just got slightly more in those markets.
So I think it was result of long-term strategic plan around this emerging market and the results of a lot of hard work to create the product and the networks that could support price points that people were looking to buy at.
So that's something that drove first quarter.
I'd also say that what also drove our first quarter results were stronger performance in our key account block particularly around persistency or retaining existing clients as we went through our fourth quarter and into our first quarter.
We retained more clients than we had in the past and then we've also expanded our product portfolio around some of the work that we did for exchanges we also did stretch that into newer well priced product offerings for our small business and some of our 51 to 99 business.
And we saw those results begin to emerge in the fourth quarter of 2014 and strengthen into 2015.
So I think the balance performance overall and in the exchange right products in the right market is pretty much as we expected and we knew back in January that the market was responding positively so it's played out nicely.
Next question please.
We'll take our next question from Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning I appreciate the call.
Could you guys talk a little about $0.20 of guidance was sort of exclude the $0.10 of cost that you guys were absorbing but the $0.20 of core earnings.
And what the drivers are of that increase how much of that is the benefits business versus Optum and I guess within that how much of that is commercial versus government.
And I guess further within that how much of that is MLR related and what you guys were seeing in both segment? Hi Josh it’s Dave.
Thank you for your questions and it's very good one.
So we’ve increased our guidance by 10% on average and then we’re including an additional $0.10 of cost associated with the transaction with Catamaran and then also the impacted reduced share repurchase.
I'd say the number one contributor to our performance improvement expectations here is growth and I think it shows through pretty strongly across all of the benefits businesses with the particular emphasis on the over performance in commercial.
But what you probably don’t see in that is you see the lived on the insurance exchange what you probably don’t see is the over performance on the off exchange business which has been very strong as well.
Jeff and his team has done a very nice job there.
So I kind of edge that more towards a commercial.
And then in terms of other profit contributors would be our performance on MLR and we expected to improve our MLR during this year as we said forth both in both the Investor Conference as well as on the fourth quarter call.
But we have clearly outperformed that this year as well.
And I’d say that that’s due to the strength of the performance on several fronts mark clinical engagement strategies and our ability to manage medical cost the trend components that Dan referred earlier as well with respect to our performing on impatient management overall is a I think was a key factor as well.
And then you can also see in Larry’s prepared remarks that Optum prepares to or expects to over perform as well absorbing the cost of the Catamaran transaction and still hitting the expected range of performance that laid out in the conference as well in the fourth quarter call.
So I think overall you’re seeing a strong performance and it’s coming from multiple different front supporting the 20% the $0.20 improvement in our overall guidance.
Is it fair to say then Dave maybe two-thirds of the improvement is the benefits business and then the third is Optum? Yeah I’d say that there’s some it’s there plus or minus overall but yeah I think that’s fair.
Two-third 64 we couldn’t calibrate it but what’s great is it is balanced then I think that’s the strength of the kind of the diversified model but so all the businesses are contributing to that advance.
And if we continue to execute appropriately we’re hoping to do better so.
Next question please.
And we’ll take our next question from Sheryl Skolnick with Mizuho.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Congratulations to everybody by my count this has been right rather an extraordinary quarter with double-digit revenue growth and strong operating income growth across all of the business units.
But we’ve been kind of talking about them separately with really key important factors that I’d like to focus on being the retention the cost management and that you have mentioned and you have talked about.
As well as the synergies of synchronization of the business the opportunity do that on the Optum side and what I’m getting at is that there was the change in the company back in November there’s been change building over the last several years.
Now we’re seeing results I don’t think that was an accident I think those things are to very clearly related issues.
I’m sensing you are at scale I’m sensing the business is transforming and my question therefore is can you talk about what changed in the way you manage this business to get all of these many parts and pieces that are so strong to work together now better perhaps and also in the future and does that means that this sort of performance should be more sustainable.
Well I'll start and so my colleagues can join in on this but I would kind of say dramatically that we have been endeavoring to perform at these levels and interest level of consistency for sometime.
It is not just a factor of internal average efforts I think there are market external market factors that putting pressures to bear as well.
So we bear some of the responsibility for - if we so optimize our performance and some of it is due to kind of external market dynamics and pressures.
But I think that for the last couple years we have been endeavoring to really make the business work together on a more optimal level across the enterprise.
It has been the function of trying to drive a better culture it has been a function of trying to achieve a strong chemistry among senior managements and kind of effort where we are working together and helping each other with both their challenges and opportunities.
And I do think this is a very strong group of people who are committed to working together and to optimizing the performance that are really focused on serving customers consumers care providers really focused outside and making sure that we are delivering on the promise of enabling the better healthcare system and really helping people live healthy alive and get access and services to facilitate that.
And I just think that has come together and it is an effort so it is not sustaining as making sure that we keep doing this.
And I do think that there is a stronger chemistry among the teem today and emerging maturing leadership group across the board and I say its board based I would say its not three or four people I would say its 75 or 100 people across the Board.
And I think that - I think people make a difference and I think that’s been part of it.
I think we’ve also been focused on that culture to make sure that we are collaborating effectively and focusing on serving the markets.
So I think those things have played into it and we'll look around – Dirk McMahon would like to try add to this.
So Sheryl its Dirk how’re you doing.
A good example is the advocate for me call model that was a joint effort plus Optum and UHC with Optum handling the clinical pieces.
If you look at what we are doing with our service offerings making sure our digital offerings get consistent making sure all of our customer communications are clear and cognized and simple those things coordinate across the enterprise – that's a good example in the case we’re managing across.
And I think the decisions the way we go about making decisions and how we choose leaders in the organization are really built on more focused on collaborating and being ambitious to make sure the enterprise performs for those who we serve and so I take a lot of factors that are may be intangible to have contributed to that and I think you just have seen some of the effort start to emerge and I think we can do better.
So I’m hoping this is the - you’re seeing that the beginning of what we can do going forward but we have to keep working on it.
Thanks for the question.
Next please? We’ll take our next question from A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hello everybody.
I'm going to follow up with another Catamaran consolidation question.
I guess the $0.30 an EPS accretion that we’re looking for next year I assume that’s after as plowing back some of the opportunity for the underlying customer base so assume that the overall opportunity from putting the two together is more than what we've reflected in the $0.30.
Can you give us some flavor of what might be ploughed back to combine entities clients.
And then one of the issues that’s been raised and I want you just have you comment on it is the Catamaran has a lot of health plan members or clients and I know in Optum like OptumInsight has a lot of business with other health plans you just comment on how that relationship works I know there seems to be some concern that people may view as competitor but how has your experience been in Optum working with other health plans? Sure well there is several in there I might it is premature for us to get specific about elements related to transaction that is still really subject to approval and so forth but kind of somatically I would offer that the accretion is really more a function of the transaction itself.
The capital we deployed relative to the cost of that capital against the earnings stream of Catamaran as it is we are clearly focused on driving the overwhelming majority of the benefits and synergies that arise from this back to customers improving the value proposition improving and progressing a PBM model that is distinctive in the marketplace.
And we are really focused on the customers benefiting principally from that of which UnitedHealthcare is a customer as well but also as you point out very important customers that are other payors in the marketplace very very good companies and those relationships are clearly important and vital to this model going forward.
And we are committed delivering on all commitments related to that and really developing and delivering a supporting capability to their PBM strategies so that we produce for them a distinctive capability and advantage into the marketplace and to meet their specifications as they see it and become a very trusted partner in this category.
I think we are a trusted partner in this category - for a variety of payors and care providers across the spectrum in Optum and our business has continued to grow and evolve there and Larry I don’t know if you want to comment on that.
Hi A.J it’s Larry.
So good point that you made and good question and we live this everyday and I will kind of reiterate almost everything Steve just said but obviously I have spoken to quite a few of the customers but may be what you want to think back a little bit is frame what we do today.
If you look at OptumHealth and you look at OptumInsight you would plan that if we have internal and external customers that’s pretty balanced between the internal and external breakdown.
If you look at what’s really happening with the Catamaran transaction it will get very close to being balanced as well but some of the things that we heard as we talked to the existing clients and so forth that this is what Steve said is that the reason we bought and entered into this combination with Catamaran was because we needed to scale.
We needed enhanced technology we needed specialty and synchronization programs we needed well grounded management team and as a result complementary business that same reasons that people want to do business with us they have those same interest and that’s why we believe we really marry up really really well with this new model.
Now some of the things that we’re going to have to do is we’re going to have to execute.
We’re going to have to execute day one as we get involved with new customers.
We’re going to have to live up to commitments that have been made and we know that and we’re pretty good at that.
This going to have to be total transparency today we do business with 300 health plans we do business with 4 500 hospitals.
So we’re used to really working with a lot of people and having to have transparency and this is just going to be another aspect of it.
Obviously privacy and security around information and data and we’re going to have to come up with the way that we believe this is going to be pretty easy with no disruption because we are on the same technology platform and we’ve been on that platform for about 10 years.
So overall we feel pretty good about this transaction but I think if you went back and you looked at what we do in OptumHealth you would find that lot of these clients already clients of ours and they already work with us in various intervention and prevention and wellness programs.
You would find the same with OptumInsight.
So overall we kind of know this model and I would say as long as we execute and as long as we execute and as long as we execute we should be fine.
All right great thanks.
Thank you.
Next question please.
We’ll take our next question from Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Great may be if I can ask similar question in a little bit different way when we think about the accretion of $0.30 my understanding is that it’s versus not deploying the capital else but you’ve already kind of talked about a $0.07 headwind so far this year from cutting back on share repurchase and I guess that you can do that again next year to bring leverage back down.
How do you think about kind of the net accretion versus if you had continued your previous capital deployment plan in 2016 and then I understand the concept of returning the overwhelming majority of the benefits back to the customers but usually we don’t think of year one as being the high watermark from an accretion perspective I mean where does that $0.30 number go to in year two and year three? Well first of all we’re not providing that level of guidance in particularly at this early stage but we think that this deployment of capital is compelling relative to the market opportunities.
And I think the capabilities we can bring to the marketplace so we think that this business will continue to grow we think that will become a more effective serving customers and it will become more affected as a business and particularly in the market dynamics that we see ahead as specialty pharma continues to emerge in the marketplace whether it’s going to require greater information greater clinical engagement.
So we think this is a very good use of capital that will be a important business broadly for the marketplace serving all sectors of the markets that where prescriptions are engaged.
And we expect this to grow so we don’t expect this accretion to flatten out or trend we expect the business to actually improve year-by-year and so we would expect that contribution to grow and would grow we think much more than would be a share buyback if that’s what you’re using it as an example.
Our orientation to deploying capital is to find growth opportunities aligned with our strategic capabilities and that is our priority in terms of deploying capital paying dividends and share buyback is really when we really have excess capital if you will to bear.
So we are very pleased with this and we can - we’ll continue to look for investment opportunities not only in this area but in our other Optum services and in our benefits businesses where we think there would may be opportunities down the road.
I don’t know if that gets to your Larry.
Sure Kevin I’ll get little more granular and may be this is not were you were going but I’m can’t been held responsible here for that $0.30 in 2016 and the way that I look at it you’ve got some factors that we have to pay attention to very very carefully right now such as client retention such as sales such as our operating leverage our customer service and our management.
All of these things that we really have control of inside of Optum and how we manage the business and with the combination of Catamaran who has the strong management team who has strong experience strong relationships this is a very very strong management team and so we feel confident on lot of levers that we can use and pull to go towards that $0.30.
Now I’m not even talking about network discounts and I’m not talking about drugs – at this point of time because as we talked about some of these categories will go back to others and our clients as we work with them.
So we’re confident from what I call operating plan standpoint what we have to do by 2016.
Thanks for the question and next question please.
We will take our next question from Christine Arnold with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
At your Investor Day you indicated you expect to achieve your long-term earnings growth target of 13% to 16% in 2016 recognizing now that the 2015 EPS is going to be higher than your expected.
Is that objective still on track and as you look into 2016 you mentioned that rates are keeping up with cost trends in Medicare could you comment on your other lines of business how you see headwinds tailwinds? Thanks.
Sure.
The other lines of business I’ll ask Jeff Austin and Steve maybe to respond in terms of our overall we are not changing our outlook with respect to our long-term growth trends or with no intention of suggesting that.
We still feel confident that in the long-term our businesses are capable of producing growth in that range and we are hopefully seeing our performance start to recover back into that range.
So as it relates to the individual businesses maybe I’ll start with Steve Nelson.
Thanks Steve.
Hi Christine it’s Steve Nelson.
With respect to the Medicare business it’s really well positioned for 2000 now and will even increasingly improve for 2016 to serve more seniors which is really our objective provide not just better benefits but great health outcomes and a better healthcare experience.
And I’ll just tell you how kind of we think about that as we are in - as you know in the midst of our 2016 benefit planning period.
We have now shaped our networks in a really meaningful way we have added premiums under half of our total membership as premium which was an important transition and something that we needed to do and executed that this year making great progress on starts we have really strong clinical programs and customer service innovations and improvement that not only as I said provide benefits but create a better healthcare experience for our members.
And we have great market share and brand position so when you couple this with the growth of the population and increased propensity to choose Medicare advantage over fee-for-service it is really strong position and very positive outlook.
Jeff? Good morning Christine it's Jeff Alter.
I think the commercial business shares very positive view of the future we've been through a tough couple of years with lot of headwinds lot of disruptions from the ACA which tend to - I think our ability to manage trend better than some others.
And I think as we go into 2015 2016 and beyond kind of the combined power of Optum healthcare working together to keep trends lower keep our pricing lower.
I think you should expect the growth that we’ve had over the last six months or so to really be what distinguishes us going forward and that’s delivering more and more value to the marketplace through different product designs but more important over the long run better management of cost and delivering that better management back through lower pricing and growth to the marketplace.
Good morning this is Austin.
Strong momentum continues in our Medicaid business we are very honored to continue to see strong growth we look for that growth to continue throughout the year and into the future.
Really built on very strong relationships with our state partners strong clinical programs focused on getting better outcomes high quality outcomes for the constituents and overall I think we’ve been able to demonstrate over time and partnership with those states value.
And that sustained value we think is what really continues to create that momentum moving forward.
So I think pretty solid across the board in terms of and the Optum business continues to be strong the backlog pipeline and Optum continues to grow and revenue backlog continues to grow actually at a faster pace than what we’re actually showing in our reported results so pretty positive in that regard.
We’ll take maybe two more questions so the next one please.
We’ll take our next question from Ana Gupte with Leerink Partners.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks good morning.
I was wondering on this Optum UHC better together is that strengthened or less strong if you will post to Catamaran transaction.
And how would that be informed by your 2016 2017 selling season and are there any other milestones that might inform one decision versus the other? I would say just in broadly that kind of coming back to an earlier question that I think the chemistry and the operating dynamics across the businesses continue to mature and get better I think we have a very strong generation of leaders here and they’re working together.
In terms of this particular transaction a lot of work done at the corporate level in terms of the actual developing and execution of a transaction of this caliber and then working with the Optum team and the OptumRx team that has been probably the orientation at this point in time.
So I would say that as it relates to that transaction I think it was our - I think we’ve really good capabilities at our corporate development organization are - treasury organization and so forth and then they take the business expertise from the Optum team really where our PBM resides.
So that is probably in - that flavor was probably played out more in that.
But I would tell you that the better together dynamic across our businesses has never play –actually been better and as I said earlier I think and certainly it’s our intent that this is just the beginning.
Next question please.
We’ll take the next question from Sean Wieland with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Long time listener first time caller thanks for taking my question.
So this week you said the Optum360 and Mayo is getting together.
Mayo as you know is also embarking on their implementation of APAC.
So that’s a lot of cooks in the kitchen.
Can you comment on the value proposition to Mayo given their simultaneous rollout of APAC and how you’re going to manage this? And also can you tell us what the organic growth wise in the OptumHealth business.
Thanks.
Well welcome Sean and maybe Bill Miller can touch on Mayo and John perhaps your last question.
Yes Sean this is Bill I’ll answer the implementation work going on down at APAC.
It's a very insightful question because that is a lot of things going on.
And it was instrumental and part of the discussion as we arrived at our relationship with Mayo because what we'll do is working concert with them with respect to their rollout of APAC.
But if they evaluated that and they looked at our tools the combination of our tools working with their existing systems and the systems that they’re going to install they felt like they wanted to move ahead because they were independent and the best in the market as they saw them.
And there were other things that we're going to work on collectively that I think enhance Mayo's position around patient engagement and some other things that they want to sort with from a consumer perspective which we’re going to work with them particularly in the context of revenue management.
So they’re comfortable with the so called cooks in the kitchen.
We’ll collaborate in that context and there is not that much overlap and where there is we’ve accounted forward in the project plan.
So we feel very comfortable about going forward.
Yes Sean this is John Rex.
So OptumHealth did have a very good top line growth in the quarter that you noted 27% top line growth.
I would say all the businesses contributing if I would have call out certain businesses in terms of where we saw particular strength that I want to note on the call and call at the OptumCare businesses.
So those are the care delivery businesses certainly one of the big five drivers that we talked about extensively at the Investor Day back in December in terms of where our focus was over the next five years.
Driving that growth it was really a growth in patients served in our existing markets.
It was also de novo expansion new market expansion really heavily along those areas in terms of driving the vast majority of growth with OptumHealth for the quarter.
So to just to sum up the quarter the story is really again about growth growth in revenues earnings based on more consistent performance for customers growth in the number of people we partner with and serve across the healthcare system.
And growth in the scope and diversity of our businesses.
So we thank you and we’ll see you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's program and we thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good morning.
I will be your conference operator today.
Welcome to the UnitedHealth Group second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
A question-and-answer session will follow UnitedHealth Group's prepared remarks.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here is some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under the U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
Information presented on this call contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated July 16 2015 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
You may begin sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to review UnitedHealth Group's second quarter results.
Our second quarter and first half are once again strong across our business portfolio continuing the performance consistency and growth momentum that have been advancing since the second half of 2014.
The market sees real value in a simpler more modern and helpful consumer experience well-informed consumer and physician engagement access to quality care practical innovation and fair pricing.
With the expected closing of the Catamaran transaction and improved momentum in our base business we now expect 2015 revenues to be $154 billion earnings to be in the range of $6.25 to $6.35 per share and cash flows from operations to be $8.4 billion to $8.6 billion.
Second quarter revenues grew 11.3% year-over-year to $36.3 billion.
After tax net margins improved 10 basis points and net earnings grew 15% year-over-year to $1.64 per share.
Second quarter cash flows from operations also grew 15% year-over-year to $1.2 billion and brought first half 2015 operating cash flows to $3.4 billion or 114% of net income and this compares to 97% through the midpoint of last year.
Second quarter earnings were driven by both consistent broad-based growth at UnitedHealthcare and continued strong growth and improving margin performance from Optum.
We are positioned well for the second half of 2015 and continue to forecast UnitedHealth Group's earnings per share growth will accelerate in 2016.
I will ask Larry Renfro to lead off today with a review of Optum and then Dave Wichmann will pick up with UnitedHealthcare and some UnitedHealth Group enterprise themes.
Larry? Thanks Steve.
Optum is firmly on track to achieve significant growth and performance targets for both 2015 and 2016.
Second quarter results were strong across the board and position us well once again for a strong finish in the second half of the year.
Optum revenues grew 16% in the second quarter.
Optum's overall operating margin of 6.4% improved 20 basis points year-over-year and 60 basis points from the first quarter with all businesses improving their margins sequentially.
This higher overall margin on a growing revenue base drove 19% growth in Optum's earnings from operations this quarter.
Through the first half of the year Optum earned 42% of its full year operating earnings target even while absorbing $42 million in Catamaran merger costs in the first quarter.
Given normal seasonality Optum is well on track to achieve its full year plan.
As we have shared before Optum is focused on opportunities to dramatically elevate value for customers in five large growth markets clinical care pharmacy care services technology solutions and government services with international versions of these being the fifth opportunity.
In pharmacy care services there is a clear market need for a more integrated patient centered cost sensitive offering.
We are committed to creating a next-generation pharmacy care services company.
The addition of Catamaran accelerates our efforts significantly.
Together we believe we would better serve people through a comprehensive whole person approach that integrates data information analytics and clinical care insight to support care treatments and compliance rather than just filling prescriptions.
This is doubly true in the coming era of specialty drugs.
We will bring better and more consistent overall quality and lower costs for consumers.
This approach enhances the differentiated value OptumRx offers customers beyond the benefits of our combined purchasing of over one billion scripts per year.
We expect the merger to close within the next two weeks.
So we will be advancing this effort over the balance of this year slightly ahead of schedule.
Turning to the technology solutions market.
Care providers are strongly embracing Optum360 offerings.
They can leverage our technology infrastructure and full portfolio of solutions for modern performance-based care delivery across the full range of care settings including receiving comprehensive revenue management services and accompanying operating analytics computer-assisted coding clinical documentation ICD-10 compliance and population health management.
These capabilities packaged as a comprehensive solution are designed to optimize the financial and service performance of the care provider customers we serve and help them transition to perform exceptionally well under performance-based and value-based delivery arrangements.
Optum360 has been one of the contributors to the overall growth in OptumInsight revenues which grew 13% this past quarter and contributed to growth in contract backlog of more than 35% externally reaching a record $9.8 billion in total at June 30.
And we are seeing accelerating growth potential going forward as Optum's overall sales pipeline of potential contract awards has grown to $14 billion an increase of about 30% year-over-year in part due to significant proposals in the Optum360 markets.
OptumCare our local care delivery business helped drive 33% growth in Optum health revenues this quarter.
We offer physicians a unique strong and stable professional practice opportunity.
We can support and equip them to do what they most clearly want to practice medicine rather than administer a complex business.
We have invested in modern technology with unique analytics and process tools to create service responsiveness for patients well beyond what standalone clinics deliver today and OptumCare offers compelling value to payers through risksharing capabilities that help them offer affordable health benefit products.
The stability and growth in our patient base and payer relationships reflect the value our physicians provide.
As this business matures we expect to expand operating margins while delivering strong consistent revenue growth.
This past quarter MedExpress joined OptumCare with nearly 150 freestanding neighborhood care centers in 16 local markets.
MedExpress can offer as much as 90% of the care typically delivered in a hospital emergency room at about 90% lower cost.
We are committed to growing as a leading provider of ambulatory care services recognizing this capability will be increasingly valuable to the consumer and health care system overall.
We offer these few examples to help illustrate Optum's diversity and commitment to delivering remarkable value for patients and customer.
In each case these examples are part of enduring relationships we are building with people who are seeking sophisticated trusted partners to help them address both the pressures and the opportunities across the whole health system.
More than selling any one product serving these client relationships well will be critical as Optum works to achieve its ambitious goals.
Now let me turn it over to Dave.
Thank you Larry.
Starting first with UnitedHealthcare.
Second quarter revenues grew a strong 10% organically to $33.1 billion while operating margins were steady at 6.1%.
The UnitedHealth Group consolidated medical care ratio improved 20 basis points year-over-year and throughout the first half medical costs were well controlled.
The year-over-year decrease in the care ratio occurred despite the growth of about 1.3 million people in Medicaid Medicare Advantage and public exchanges all higher care ratio businesses.
The 2015 commercial medical cost trend outlook continues to be biased towards the lower portion of our 5.5% to 6.5% full-year forecast and we continue to expect a full year consolidated care ratio of 80.8% plus or minus 50 basis points.
Steady growth and discipline around care management and operating cost drove 11% operating earnings growth at UnitedHealthcare in the quarter.
The core story for UnitedHealthcare continues to be one of distinctive organic gains in overall market share and above market revenue growth along with continued emphasis on serving local market needs.
We project domestic growth of 1.4 million people in 2015 bringing us to organic growth of nearly 10 million more people served in the United States in the past six years.
While this has been among the strongest organic growth periods we have experienced we see continued growth potential going forward.
We believe there are opportunities to serve substantially higher numbers of people to deliver further value and build equity with consumers and physicians in the benefits market.
These opportunities stem from delivering practical innovations at fair price points and executing consistently in their local markets for the millions of people we serve.
Our newest products increasingly use configured networks that improve care quality and total cost and embeds complementary services to further strengthen value to the consumer.
Our combination of informatics and dedicated local market clinical staff help us find people and engage them in the healthcare system to get the care they need at the right location at the right time.
Consistently getting all this right drives consumer trust and growth follows in an expanding market of more than 300 million people in the United States alone.
Let me flag a few representative examples.
We are bridging the direct link between consumer engagement and lower per member cost trend and with employers' help further engaging consumers in their own health and wellness.
This includes our product development efforts like Rally in cutting-edge areas like incentives gamifications missions and social networks.
Engaging people on their own care informs them as real consumers and translates into better care better care resource use and lower costs.
In July we released the next evolution of our diabetes prevention and weight management program called Real Appeal which merges proven science and diabetes prevention with motivational multimedia weight and lifestyle management programs to reduce the onset of diabetes reduce obesity and improve overall health and metabolic state.
Real Appeal is the first digital extension of Rally both of which use life coaches and other motivational methods to achieve superior engagement quality outcomes and economic results.
Similarly we are using technology and data behind the scenes to advance the fundamentals of service.
Our approach predicts and prioritizes the needs of inbound inquiries and connects the consumer through whatever communications channel they choose with clinical wellness or administrative personnel based upon their predicted need making the service experience simpler better and more complete for them and more efficient for us.
We approach Medicaid in the context of the broader array of social services people need and states must address in support of better healthcare.
We believe we can increase value for our state customers and our Medicaid members by helping connect people with our growing network of local market social services like transportation housing and nutrition.
On the physician side 465 000 physicians nationwide have signed up to use our secured cloud-based workspace called Link.
Link enable doctors and their office staff to transact routine business with multiple payers more efficiently than they could ever do through traditional widely used channels like portals faxes and phones.
We are furthering that offering to support practice performance risk arrangements and referrals through the deployment of tools for search and price transparency referrals and online scheduling and we are just getting started.
Think of Link as the end-to-end dashboard for managing all critical elements of an ambulatory practice fully integrated with the physicians practice management system.
Under benefit innovation we continue to organize our networks around specific local market products expanding value-based purchasing and our medical network and next-generation patient incentives to help them get the right care and make the right decisions.
This full alignment from the consumer through the care provider consistently delivers the highest value.
While modern technology positions us to target and engage people it is our local people who close the circle.
We have nurses who are performing one million clinical visits annually in seniors homes nurses and case managers in local hospitals working alongside hospital staff community health workers assisting Medicaid recipients neighborhood-by-neighborhood and physician office staff assistance helping document physician care quality for Medicare.
Each one of these professionals puts a human face on UnitedHealthcare with every interaction they have at the local level improving the quality of health care and reducing its costs.
We believe no one else delivers such a total package nationally.
Looking forward we continue to develop and more deeply integrate our capabilities.
We believe UnitedHealthcare will continue to grow at market differentiating pace profitably growing share as a direct result of the total value we are delivering and the brand equity we are building.
Before Steve sums up let me touch on a couple of items for UnitedHealth Group as a whole.
During the second quarter we raised our dividend by another 33% to an annual rate of $2 per share.
We plan to return nearly $2 billion to shareholders in dividend payments over the next year.
As Larry mentioned we expect to close the Catamaran merger in July after financing of the transaction our projected debt to total capital will be around 48% in the third quarter.
We are committed to sustaining our strong financial position and current debt ratings and expect to reduce debt to total capital in short order.
With the deal expected to close in two weeks we are incorporating Catamaran into our 2015 outlook.
We foresee Catamaran adding around $10 billion in revenues this year with full year 2015 UnitedHealth Group revenues now growing 18% year-over-year to approximately $154 billion and we now expect cash flows to be $8.4 billion to $8.6 billion in 2015.
In addition we are increasing our outlook for our earnings per share to a range of $6.25 to $6.35 per share.
The improvement comes from our core operating performance with Catamaran's impact on earnings over the balance of 2015 offset by interest amortization and integration costs.
We continue to foresee strong revenue earnings accretion and cash flows from Catamaran in 2016 and increasing level thereafter but again Larry described for you the real story which is the future value creation.
Steve? Thank you Dave.
Larry and Dave have given you some sense for why we continue to be optimistic about our potential to deliver value throughout the broad health system and to growth.
Let me just comment briefly before we summarize today's report.
Certainly we all recognize this market space has been exceptionally active this quarter and beyond that observation we do not believe it is our place to comment on market specific activities or hypothetical implications that we are not involved in.
And we are not going to comment on the activities of others or speculate on subsequent processes or market dynamics no one really yet knows.
Our focus remains squarely on the continued growth and expand the capability of our enterprise and how we can serve our customers more effectively.
The markets we serve are changing in positive ways to call upon our competencies we have cultivated for years and accordingly these changes help prospects for years of positive growth in the continued expansion of our products and services.
Our capabilities are strengthening and we are expanding into natural market adjacencies.
We are intensely focused on these opportunities and committed to driving higher and more consistent performance for customers across our businesses.
The key elements of our efforts going forward are familiar and fundamental.
Truly focusing on serving consumers care providers and benefit sponsors creating and adopting simpler more modern approaches around how healthcare is paid for around information transparency consumer engagement and care access and care provider support developing valuable long-term relationships with strong partners pricing products and services that deliver real value to the market because our design approach in underlying cost structures are market-leading executing to serve the key future growth areas for Optum clinical care integrated pharmacy care technology solutions and government services thoughtfully moving forward at the targeted global menus using capital to strengthen capabilities and improve and expand our growth potential and cultivating capabilities that will be important to the future more than the past.
With that we thank you and operator we will now take questions.
The floor is now open for questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions].
We ask that you limit your question to one per person so that we can get as many questions as possible.
And we will take our first question from David Windley from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Steve acknowledging your comments about market activity wondering if with Catamaran now near closed what is United's appetite for further M&amp;A activity? And maybe dovetailing that what is your current view on provider consolidation and balance of power in local markets as it relates to negotiating your cost position? Thank you.
Well in terms of the commentary along those lines we have been building our business and diversifying our businesses across the landscape of our business model for several years and we can expect to continue those approaches continue to diversify our business as we said in the natural market adjacencies continue to deploy capital in ways that we think makes sense for us and continue to fill in market positions and to build on capabilities.
So I don't think anything has really changed in that domain and I don't think there is any reason to think otherwise.
Our businesses are well positioned across the expanse of benefits and across services.
We are well positioned across virtually all the key markets and think that we can continue to drive very strong cost positions have plenty of scale across all our business segments.
So we are just going to continue to run our business and maintain that approach.
So I don't think anything has really changed David.
Great.
Thank you.
Next question please We are going to take our next question from Matthew Borsch from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Yes.
So just hoping you could maybe help us understand how much the impact there was on the medical cost ratio from higher acuity enrollment? I think we can probably do our own math on the growth in the MA Medicaid enrollment relative to commercial.
But since you are not giving the commercial MCR anymore I was just looking for whatever additional insight you could provide on that? Again I think because it really reflects more the reality and the diversity of our business but I don't know if we can give you something that is so precise but Dan do you want to take a shot? Sure.
Matt.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So in terms of our care ratios and our performance in the quarter they were very much in line with our expectation.
And then underneath that as Dave mentioned we continue to drive very low trends which is why we are orienting towards the lower half of our prior guidance.
Obviously there is impacts associated with the 1.3 million lives we have added over the last 12 months in Medicare Medicaid as well as in exchanges which have higher relative care ratios.
But maybe if you step back and look at it we have been able to drive a 20 basis point improvement on a year-over-year basis.
We have a little higher pricing for reform fees which is helping that offset by a little less development.
And when you compare that to the prior year quarter we did have revenue true-ups in there related to our government programs.
So when we look at it on a consolidated basis it's very much in keeping with our expectations and we have strong confidence in our full year outlook of 80.8% plus or minus 50 basis points.
If I could just one quick follow-up on that you mentioned the prior year development or to prior period development I noticed you didn't breakout between inner year and prior year or I missed it.
Do you have that? Yes.
It was all current year development.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question please And we will take our next question from Sheryl Skolnick from Mizuho.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thank you very much and a very nice job again.
If we can focus on the Catamaran transaction for a moment since that is something that is going forward and new as opposed to looking backwards as I suspect you would like us to shift our focus a couple of questions around that.
First of all the new model that you are describing and new value proposition for the OptumRx business in conjunction with Catamaran can you elaborate a little bit I heard what you said Larry and I understand that you basically trying to change the conversation away from a finite how much more efficiently can we fill prescriptions to something that is much more clinically focused and much more targeted at helping the ultimate payers to manage the spend and improve the health of the patient.
Can you talk a little bit about why you are doing that now with Catamaran and why you couldn't do that before? That's question number one.
And question number two.
Can you set our minds at ease a little bit about how you are thinking about retaining and you have answered this question before but retaining large-scale customers that Catamaran currently has in the face of the transition to ownership by competing health plan? Thanks.
I will let Larry handle the bulk of this but I would say that OptumRx was clearly on a path to a more comprehensive and integrated approach using data and analytics and engaging in the clinical protocol before - the intensity of that has increased.
The advent of specialty pharma has clearly been an element of that and allows us to actually engage it even more effectively as you know.
And the only other comment I would offer is is that we are intensely focused on serving all of our customers and serving the expectations of the Catamaran customers for sure and their expectations.
There is significant value coming their way from this combination.
And we think that that is going to be compelling and we are looking to build that business not only for current customers but to expand that business as well.
Larry would you want to add to that? Sure.
So Sheryl I will come at it a couple of ways.
Steve said this and we are laser focused on our customers right now and that's not only customers that we have at Optum but also when we have the ability to get to the customers of Catamaran.
As you know we are limited right now as the transaction hasn't been approved so we haven't had a lot of interaction with them yet.
But I think that if I looked at the timing on this and what we are trying to do and why we did the transaction it fits with why I think this is going to work pretty well.
Number one we needed scale and that's what we are going to have now that we have the volumes that Catamaran brings to this.
So scale is going to be there.
Obviously we have been on their technology for 10 years.
So this makes it an easy integration and we are going to have enhanced technology that's going to benefit both our organizations.
But we get into what Steve was talking about is some distinctive capabilities whether that's the specialty drug side or that’s synchronization.
And if I was looking at that on the synchronization side we would be looking at data modeling analytics the things that we do every day tying that together with our clinical and case management programs and engaging the providers and members.
So this is a profound program that we are putting in place at this point around synchronization that Tim Wicks has been working on in OptumRx that we will now tie in together with Catamaran.
And then the specialty obviously drug side we are focused with synchronization being part of that as well as trend management case management as well as just the purchasing power that with the scale will bring.
I think the fourth area would be a well-rounded management team.
Now we are going to have a very very strong sales organization as well as service organization.
So that works very well and it's good timing on all this and I think everyone knows that this is a very complementary business.
With catamaran had a big focus on retail where we are on the employer side and government.
They are strong in their relationships and sales.
We are strong in service.
Both are strong in technology.
So it's just good timing right now.
We believe we can move the dial a bit with the organizations together and I can comment more on this after we get this approved.
Great.
Thank you.
And I would say that goes along with the broader theme of the cost of the businesses really taking a fresh looks using information approaching the marketplace in a more comprehensive and integrated way engaging local resources to targeted groups so that we can improve their access to care their use of resources and change their consumer experience as well.
So it plays to us across a whole spectrum of areas in pharmaceuticals and specialty pharma is really just one of those themes.
Thank you.
Next question.
Our next question is from Andy Schenker from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So I appreciate some of your earlier comments here on cost trend in MLRs versus your expectations and maybe if you could just provide any additional color on how maybe the components their utilization and unit costs are really developing across your book and then remind us how that compares to your initial expectations and related to that one of your peer's highlights on how utilization in Medicare book specifically anything you are seeing there versus commercial and Medicare? Thank you.
Dan do you want to comment? Sure.
Good morning Andy.
This is Dan.
I again reiterate that certainly our costs in this quarter were well within our expectation and we continue to drive a low trend relatively speaking.
And I think when you look at the combination of factors that impact it it starts first with a benefit design that rewards consumers for better choices and then we are aligning it with provider relationships that incentivize more appropriate use of health resources.
And then we overlay our medical management on that.
And that starts with our people and we have got people in UnitedHealthcare and Optum across facilities across the country as well as in neighborhoods as Dave mentioned and in people's home and when we look at the combination of all those things we have been able to drive a very consistent utilization trend across all our businesses within the UnitedHealthcare portfolio and again well within our expectations.
So your comments about what you seeing and others around hospital use and so forth specifically on that we have not seen anything outside of normal seasonal variation.
So it's all in keeping with our expectation.
And I think it's important to remember as we have talked before we have got a lot of visibility on the hospital side who is coming in who is there who is leaving how we are interacting with them facilitating their just discharge and so forth and this is really a strength of our company and we continue to drive absolute reductions in per capita hospital usage and we been talking about that for the last six years.
So again from our perspective very much in keeping with our expectations in the quarter nothing that I would highlight by category or by business frankly.
Dan if I could just squeeze a quick follow-up in there.
You obviously highlight medical management and benefit design.
Do you think United is maybe doing better than the overall market as a result of those? Or do think that they are still generally in line with the broader market on some insurance? I think the combination of the assets that UnitedHealthcare and Optum bring in combination to this marketplace is distinctive.
Thank you.
Next question please.
And our next question comes from Christine Arnold from Cowen.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks for the question.
Your OptumInsight backlog is up significantly.
You talked a lot about Optum360.
How does the composition of your business change over time? And how might the changing mix of business change earnings growth and seasonality in the future? And then as a second kind of unrelated question is there anyway to quantify the out of period revenue you experienced a year ago so we can think about underlying core MLRs? Thanks.
Sure.
Maybe I will have John start the themes and then send that down to a couple of business leads.
Good morning Christine.
John Rex here.
So just a few thoughts here on the backlog and how that relates to what we see going on in OptumInsight.
So a few things here as we talk about the backlog.
One of the things that we been noting here is that it continues to be driven by the external business commercial business that OptumInsight has been successfully gaining.
In particular in driving those increases are we go back to the theme of the larger deeper and more comprehensive relationships that we been pursuing for some time.
We thought making considerable investments in OptumInsight a couple of years ago and that impacted some of the progression.
We spoke about that and tried to highlight that.
In particular it was related to those kind of relationships.
As they come on they typically come on and we need to invest.
It takes some while to mature and then they start contributing.
It's a part of what you are seeing in OptumInsight this year as some of those investments we made a couple of years ago maturing starting to starting to come online.
But our aspiration is to continue to make those and continue to make those in a way that we can balance both our growth that we are looking forward as well as deliver on those commitments.
So I am going to ask Bill Miller to make a few comments and give a little bit more detail in terms of exactly where that's occurring.
Yes.
I think John did a good job at touching on the 360.
If I broaden the spectrum a little bit I think there is three primary factors why you see this pipeline growing and certainly the backlog growing.
One I just think is a very strong focus on our markets understanding the pressures that are boiling up there really getting inside of the trend there.
And I think we do a really good job of anticipating those trends which cascades to the next thing as we spent a lot of time with our clients interpreting how these pressures and trends are going to have to be solved for inside of whether they are provider payer government life sciences businesses and so really building with them in concert with them with their input solutions that really help solve and help them thrive in an environment that is becoming more and more performance-based.
And I would say thematically our portfolio is really shape charged for helping our clients move into more of a performance-based environment.
And then finally I would say we execute and deliver.
We have great outcomes on the big large end-to-end contracts that we have undertaken but we execute every day on our software solutions our more standalone solutions and that track record continues to strengthen and the market is recognizing it.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Our next question is from Brian Wright from Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just wanted to clarify on the higher acuities with the Medicaid and Medicare and the exchanges I just want to make sure that the exchange MLR is within your expectations as well too.
I would ask Jeff or Dan who do you want? I will have a take Brian on the exchanges.
Obviously when we talked about how we are going to approach this market in 2013 and then in 2014 and beyond our expectation was to get more fully involved this year which we have done.
We have seen some really nice growth.
But as we talked about last quarter and we talked coming in we didn't have an expectation of any meaningful contribution on a margin standpoint.
So from a care ratio it's in keeping with expectations but obviously higher than what our traditional commercial book would be.
As expected.
As expected yes.
Okay.
So nothing out of the ordinary nothing surprising in what you see? Brian it's Jeff Alter.
No nothing.
As we mentioned as we were preparing for 2015 we were very purposeful in building both product and networks that supported those price points.
And as a matter of fact we grew where we thought we would grow in the markets that we thought with the products that we thought and we were pleased we actually grew a little more than we expected.
So we are pleased with where we are at exchanges and it's a growing emerging developing market and we are planning for that as we pace forward.
And sorry just be a second but the better-than-expected growth isn't coming at the cost of worse-than-expected medical cost in that bucket? No absolutely not.
We are growing where we thought we would with the products and the network designs and economics that supported those price points.
Perfect.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Next question.
Our next question is from Gary Taylor from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
I just had one little nit and then my real question.
I think it was Larry who said $42 million of Catamaran merger cost in the first quarter.
Is there a 2Q number you have for us? I think that was Dave.
Okay.
There is no meaningful Q2 cost.
We recorded the costs associated with the Catamaran merger the transaction cost in the first quarter.
All in the first quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
So the question I wanted to ask I am sure you guys saw the CMS announcement last Friday proposing to bundle roughly 25% of Medicare hips and knees in 2016 into a bundled payment methodology.
I just wondered if you can maybe talk just for a couple minutes on conceptually your experience with bundled payments on the commercial side? Are you using bundled payments in your ACOs? Or is that more risksharing agreements in capitation? And do you see this the CMS announcement as an opportunity to push for more bundled payments in your commercial book? Sure.
Dan do you want to comment on that? You bet.
Good morning Gary.
So as it relates to our value-based reimbursement in a program we have talked historically about the continuum working from less progressive to more progressive reimbursement methods and sort of sitting in the middle of that are bundled payments.
Today we deploy them in if you think about our $36 billion of value-based reimbursement at the end of 2014 or the $43 billion we will have at the end of 2015 we have got about 5% stake in that bundled payments category.
And from our perspective it is a good mechanism along the journey towards a more progressive population orientation around outcomes and value and quality.
But at the core it still doesn't specifically address the volume of utilization.
So the number of bundles right.
So as we look at progressing we are looking to get to more comprehensive alignment around total population cost.
It is a piece of productive and positive but it's just part of a broader solution.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question please Our next question is from Kevin Fischbeck from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks.
I wanted to dig into the two comments you made about guidance.
I guess first on 2015 it sounds like all of the revenue number are from Catamaran or the revenue increases are mostly Catamaran the earnings increase is not.
So I just wondered if you could break out what is driving the increase in earnings this year versus your expectations last quarter? And then second Stephen I think you said that you expect earnings growth to accelerate next year and I just wanted to see if that was due to Catamaran or whether you would make that same comment on a core basis whether the core United would have grown or growth would have accelerated even without the Catamaran deal? Sure.
I will weigh into this and let Dave deal with specifics particularly around the revenue break.
But we are not expecting a contribution from Catamaran at the balance of the year.
Basically its earnings will be offset by integration cost interest expense elements such as that.
The improving performance is really historic core businesses and actually UnitedHealthcare has a strong period and a big contributor to that.
But the beauty of our construct is that it's a broad-based portfolio and really the vast majority of the businesses are performing very strongly and we see growing momentum.
We clearly expect 2016 to be even stronger year.
I think we have been basically have held that posture consistently and that would be in the core business not just Catamaran.
But I guess just no finer point on the 2015 guidance rate? Is it 50-50? Or is one business causing more of the improvement? Dave? Most of the improvement for the guidance for the balance of the year comes from expectations out of UnitedHealthcare.
And as for the revenue guidance you are right it increased in the quarter but predominantly related to Catamaran.
That said all the businesses improved their revenue forecasts for the balance of the year just not enough to around up further.
Are you saying United is better but you reaffirm the MLR guidance.
So what's is driving the UnitedHealthcare better performance? UnitedHealthcare's performance is predominantly coming from growth.
Very strong growth.
1.6 million people year-over-year 1.4 million for the balance of the year.
Very strong growth momentum really commencing about this time last year and actually earlier for Medicaid and for the government programs broadly.
Wasn't the 1.4 million didn't you put out the same number last year wasn't that your -- in last quarter wasn't that your guidance for membership this year last quarter as well? I think that's right.
Yes that's the same.
But you are raising guidance on better growth? Yes.
We are raising guidance on growth and then we were raising guidance $0.10 at the bottom end of the ranges and $0.05 at the top end of the range.
And we are raising that guidance based on better visibility on growth and performance in the business.
Okay.
Great.
So translating the slightly stronger revenues on the core businesses and stronger earnings keep earnings efficiencies out of those businesses.
All right.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from A.J.
Rice from UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Hello everybody.
Maybe I will ask a little more broad question about the Medicare advantage.
Obviously the bids are now in for next year.
You have now a chance to comment in a big forum like this about your thinking about how that will go for next year and opportunity for margin gains enrollment that type of thing.
Any broad color on that now that the bids are in? I will ask Steve Nelson comment on that.
Pretty positive but obviously at this stage we are not going to give real much precision around next year but from a thematic point of view Steve? Sure.
Good morning A.J.
it's Steve Nelson.
As Steve said it is obviously too early to be specific.
Don't have CMS approval on our benefit submissions yet.
But at a high level we really like how the Medicare Advantage business is positioned for 2016.
We are poised to offer stable benefits and distinctive value to both new and existing customers and this is really just at a high-level a result of the work that we have done over the past couple of years to reshape our networks.
We introduced premiums more broadly into our membership this year.
We have introduced developed and implemented new and unique customer service model.
We call it Advocate4Me.
We think it's distinctive.
We have more effective clinical models and clinical capabilities in conjunction with our partnership with Optum.
And when you couple that with really strong local brand we really like our position and excited about the growth opportunities in this Medicare Advantage business for 2016.
All right.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
So really stable across the board.
We think it's strengthened the business across the board and very positive.
Next question please.
Our next question is from Peter Costa from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Hi.
I am hoping you give us some specifics around your MLR this quarter in particular on three items you have broken out or a couple that you have broken out anyways.
The first being the overall mix.
What was the actual impact from mix on the MLR this quarter? Second is what was the impact from the revenue true-ups that you mentioned? And were those favorable or unfavorable true-ups? And I assume some of that relates to the risk adjuster in the New York small group market.
And the last question is your eliminations went up this quarter sequentially usually they are more flat except for last year when you were bringing in the PBM revenues but they were up again this quarter sequentially and I am kind of wondering why they were up and did that have any impact on your MLR this quarter? I don't think the eliminations had really any impact but anyone try to address the other two? Sure.
Peter we are not going to get into the specifics of spiking out the mix impact on the revenue true-ups.
Obviously if you think about the things influencing the quarter and as you compare to the same quarter last year on a mix basis we would have a rising care ratio just based on greater orientation to Medicare Advantage Medicaid and exchange enrollment.
Revenue true-ups I referenced earlier so in last year's second quarter we recognize government-based revenue true-ups which were favorable.
So as you look at the comps year-over-year that would be something that we will be working against that comparison on a year-over-year basis.
And then as you look at the second quarter this year on the revenue side we had expected in the commercial business to be receivers on the risk adjustment and we did a little bit better risk adjustment on the commercial business in the second quarter related to 2014.
So those are the things that are all coming together but when you step back from it we have seen a decline in our care ratio on a consolidated basis year-over-year.
Our medical costs are in line with our expectations and our trends are trending towards the lower half of the guidance that we have provided previously.
So as we look at the second quarter it is very much in line with what we were thinking before we get into it and as we exit it we have confidence of balance of the year.
And last year was affected by the true-ups.
Yes.
It was last year.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up.
Why did the eliminations go up sequentially this quarter? Dave you want to take? Peter they go up as UnitedHealthcare grows so too does Optum because UnitedHealthcare is obviously a customer of Optum.
So when you look at them you will actually see that Optum's overall growth rate is growing at a faster rate than the eliminations if you will which suggests that Optum is going faster externally than they are through the internal business with UnitedHealthcare which is the case.
But they are going to continue to rise as UnitedHealthcare continues to grow at these rates.
Next question please.
We take our next question from Josh Raskin from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
First just a quick clarification and then a question.
The clarification just you guys don't talk about cash earnings but I was curious if you could give us what your estimates for cash earnings EPS guidance would be this year? And the $0.30 that you talked about for Catamaran I just want to make sure that's a GAAP number and I guess maybe what would be the cash estimate? And then real question just around the national accounts business we are getting for July here I am curious what you are seeing for 2016? Any changes in the competitive dynamics? Have you guys thought about different strategies for sales in light of what's perceived to be industry [indiscernible]? Sure.
I will have Dave do the earnings and Jeff can comment on the national business.
Yes.
So Josh we maybe unique in this regard but we only report numbers on a GAAP basis.
So in every case they include the application of the amortization of intangibles which are pretty consistent in our business.
If you look at 2015 the effects on EPS would be about $0.34 per share if you look back to 2014 it would be the same $0.34 per share and yes the forward view on 2016 accretion for Catamaran was a GAAP base number as well.
And Dave so what would the cash accretion be on Catamaran next year? Catamaran will carry about $0.20 of amortization per year.
Okay.
Perfect.
Jeff? Good morning Josh.
It's Jeff Alter.
So we had a really strong 2015 national account season and that momentum is continuing.
We have been very purposeful in focusing on our customer's needs to deliver a total reduction in cost for them.
So the partnership that we been able to create with our existing clients and with bringing Optum resources to the table have resonated in that market.
As far as 2016 goes right now it's improved over where we were in 2015.
We have got a couple of new strategic wins already booked.
Some growth in existing clients in slices of business that we didn't have and we have retained today all our key clients that we have to bid.
We will give you more clarity as the season wraps up during our next call.
Okay.
That's helpful Thank you.
Next question please.
Our next question is from Sean Wieland from Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
What percent of your members are predominantly inside the United tent? That is they get their medical benefits from United their pharmacy benefits from OptumRx they engage with Optum health services? And can you comment on what the medical cost ratio is of this subset of members versus your average? We are not going to provide cost ratios with respect to that but we will give a sense of other.
Sure.
Hi Sean.
It's Dan Schumacher.
Your question assuming its oriented towards the large customers right because if you look into our fully insured offering down market we have full and total pull through of all Optum care disease management pharmacy clinical analytics data and so forth in managing those population.
So looking up market the UnitedHealthcare national accounts block we have about a third of them have pharmacy through OptumRx so two-thirds represent an opportunity for us as an enterprise.
As you think about the other services the vast majority of them have care management disease management and other engagement routines through Optum.
So the only one where we have less penetration is around pharmacy.
Then on the on the last piece of it Sean the only thing I might comment is is that when you take a look at the across the cohort of clients and then take a look at the clients that really embrace the kind of the more maximum of the offerings that we have from both UnitedHealthcare and from Optum those clients tend to actually have performance levels that are superior.
So when a client is progressively lean towards the more modern approaches that we are offering as Dan and Jeff have described before in terms of designs engagements of the consumer the clinical programs to the use of the high performing networks that are incentive-based incentives on both ends their performance from a cost trend point of view from a satisfaction point of view tend to be stronger.
Next question please.
And our next question is from Ana Gupte from Leerink Partners.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So one question I had was there is obviously angst around MLR but you are reaffirming your guidance.
Have you any thoughts or suggestions for the street around how the seasonal variation should be looked at now with exchanges with MA any other changes in one small group and so on? I really don't think so.
I really think the question really comes round mix and it is really more the mix of the membership from where the growth does come from and the higher care ratio category.
I really think it's as simple as that.
And then just a follow-up on that question.
On the small-group which is becoming ACA compliant from 50 to 100 how do you see that playing out for 2016? And may be if there is early renewals we had some volatility last year what are you seeing in the marketplace? Might that actually create more stability or would the risk pool estimation might there be any issues? Jeff? Good morning Ana.
It's Jeff Alter.
What we are preparing for and expecting is very similar to what happened in the fourth quarter of 2013 when there was transitional relief in some early renewal programs for two to 50 block.
We assume that will happen again this year in the 51 to 99 and we are ready for it.
We are geared up with products and other offerings to serve what those clients might want to do when transitional relief for early renewal programs are offered.
Thanks for taking the questions.
So maybe perhaps one more question.
Thank you.
And we will take our final question from Tom Carroll from Stifel.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Thanks for squeezing me in here.
So somewhat related to Josh's question with all the action if you will in the managed care space do you think that employee benefit consultants and brokers may give United a stronger look into 2016 than they might otherwise? And maybe conversely asking another way are you guys perhaps being any more proactive with these sales sources and highlighting your focus relative to others into next year? Thanks.
I think I can address that.
First of all as we said we are not going to comment on market dynamics that are driven by anything other than the prevailing market dynamics.
Always looking for more value always looking for more innovation and so forth.
And I really do believe the momentum of our business has been advancing our capabilities have been advancing and we are engaging the market as productively as we ever have been.
And we are continuing to focus on that serving customers and really responding to them and we are seeing some of that in the results in terms of retention the response to our offerings the broader penetration of offerings to customers.
We are just going to keep on that.
And I think that's the best response.
We have been on it.
We are going to continue to stay on it.
And I think the market has been in flux and looking for value and so we are just going to stay on it.
So with that we will conclude.
Thank you for your questions this morning.
As always this interaction is helpful in framing or speaking around information we offer you and we do our Investor Conference.
That will be coming up again in New York City on December 1.
So we would ask you to hold that date on your calendars and we will make sure that that is a substantive engagement for all of you.
And to wrap up through the first half of 2015 UnitedHealth Group.
Optum and UnitedHealthcare delivered an advance in momentum and strong growth in revenues in earnings in cash flows and the number of people and customers we serve and we expect this growth to continue and accelerate in 2016 and beyond.
As I said we remain focused on further improving service cultivating and expanding our capabilities and market positions introducing practical innovations and the potential to make healthcare work even better.
So thank you and we will see you next quarter.
This does conclude today's program.
You may now disconnect at any time.
Good Morning I will be your conference operator today.
Welcome to UnitedHealth Group Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
A question-and-answer session will follow UnitedHealth Group's prepared remarks.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here is some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under the U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated October 15 2015 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Stephen Hemsley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to review UnitedHealth Group's third quarter results.
Our business continues to grow as we develop in respond to large and emerging market opportunities across both the healthcare benefits and services sectors.
Healthcare markets worldwide continued to evolve with nations and market participants of all types seeking to build better healthcare systems that are more informed and modern lower cost simpler and more responsive to consumers.
Organizations throughout healthcare are searching for ways to improve by leveraging data and information to more effectively deliver quality care that is measurable and delivered with greater precision and consistency in response to ever increasing pressures around costs access in transparency.
We have consciously positioned UnitedHeathcare Optum and UnitedHealth Group to deliver practical innovation and significant value in this environment.
UnitedHealth Group's third quarter revenues grew 26.6% year-over-year to $41.5 billion including strong 10% organic revenue growth across our businesses.
Consolidated net earnings of $1.65 per share were in line with our expectations as was the net earnings margin which decreased by just over 1% year-over-year reflecting the greater mix of pharmacy care services as well as early stage lower margin individual exchange business lower levels of reserve development and accelerated investments and improving medicare stars quality principally closing gaps in care for the seniors we serve.
Year-to-date we have grown net earnings per share by 14% on revenue growth of 17%.
Our return on equity of 19% reflects the balance sheets of capital and organic initiatives to build our business.
Quarter end days claims payable increased two days sequentially and one day year-over-year.
And cash flows from operations continued to be strong at more than 170% of net income this quarter.
Year-to-date cash flows of $6.2 billion have grown by 11% and represented a strong 135% of [indiscernible] income for the nine-month period.
I'll ask Larry Renfro to provide a review of Optum and then Dave Wichmann will cover UnitedHealthcare and from UnitedHealth Group Enterprise comments.
Larry you want to take? Thanks Steve.
Optum continues to innovate to address rising market needs particularly those of larger more sophisticated organization which have complex health care service deliver and management challenges.
Our businesses are producing strong sustainable growth across the board.
Optum's revenues of $19.3 billion grew 61% year-over-year this quarter.
Our results include Catamaran within OptumRx results for the first time and reflect exceptional overall organic revenue growth of 15%.
OptumHealth and OptumInsight together grew revenues by more than $1 billion or 25% year-over-year to more than $5 billion this quarter.
Third quarter operating margin of 5.9% reflects the increased mix of pharmacy care services revenues as well as integration in intangible amortization costs related to Catamaran.
Both OptumHealth and OptumInsight delivered double-digit percentage operating margins in the [indiscernible].
We continue to focus on the opportunities to dramatically elevate value for customers in five large growth markets.
Clinical care pharmacy care services information and technology solutions government services and international.
Our one Optum approach means we build strong strategic and senior enterprise-level relationships that transcend individual product categories and point solutions.
We start by listening closely to our clients so we understand the issues from their perspectives.
We then bring deep experience creativity strategic partnerships in our own differentiated capabilities in healthcare combined with responsive and practical operational solutions.
This can lead to working sessions which often lead to pipeline backlog in revenue and earnings.
Optum360 is a good case in point.
It has grown to 7500 employees serving 1600 hospitals and is helping manage more than $50 billion of their billings.
Just last week customers surveyed by the Black Book a leading research organization ranked Optum360 offerings as the best in the three key product categories for the sector and we are still in the early stages as hospitals and health systems shift to professionally managed revenue approaches.
Domestically and in other nations we are in discussions with high profile healthcare organizations regarding our wide range of technology and information enabled services.
We are exploring significant opportunities to serve the healthcare needs of U.S.
Federal Government program and talking with prominent healthcare organizations about innovative technology infrastructure and application services and a comprehensive suite of technology enabled payor services.
Any one or more of these has potential to develop into a multiyear multibillion-dollar strategic relationship.
Across Optum this type of proactive approach is driving positive results.
Third quarter backlog OptumInsight exceeds $10 billion in value and grew 34% year-over-year on an external basis.
Our pipeline is continuing to grow at an exceptional rate as well.
The median deal size for OptumHealth is doubled over the past three years.
We are delivering more care to more people to the more payors at Optum Care.
We now deliver care to more than 7 million people annually through our Optum Care businesses.
Market interest in OptumRX continues to grow in response to the value we can drive through more integrated downstream drug benefit and care management efforts especially around the growing specialty and pharmaceutical segment.
The U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services has authorized agencies under its purview to conduct innovative healthcare research with Optum Labs using Optum Labs big data resources.
These indicators should help give you a sense of both our continuing progress and the meaningful opportunities we're developing.
We will continue to execute on the details for our clients with a focus on quality and service and further build our growing reputation for being the trusted partner that gets the job done.
We are optimistic about the prospects for Optum in 2016 2017 and beyond.
Now let me turn it over to Dave.
Thank you Larry.
United healthcare continues to differentiate its products on the foundations of distinctive quality service innovation and value.
As a result UnitedHealthcare has grown domestically to serve nearly 300 000 more people in the third quarter 1.5 million more people this year and nearly 1.7 million more people over the past 12 months.
We'll enter 2016 with even more distinctive products capabilities and relationships and we expect to continue to deliver impressive levels of growth next year as well.
UnitedHealthcare's third quarter revenues of $32.8 billion grew year-over-year by $2.8 billion or 9.2% all organic.
The UnitedHealthcare operating margin of 5.7% decreased as expected declining just over 1% year-over-year due to lower levels of reserve development solid growth in early-stage lower margin public insurance exchange products and increased investments in Medicare Stars quality.
We continue to expect a full year consolidated care ratio of 80.8% plus or minus 50 basis points likely above the mid-point of that range based on our year-to-date experience.
The annual care ratio is being modestly affected by the performance of our new public exchange benefit programs which now served nearly 550 000 people.
Like others we observe market-wide data this past spring that suggested the risk pool served by public exchanges would require more medical services than original expectations.
Rather than wait for our own experience with our new members to fully developed we increased rates and repositioned certain products market by market for 2016 and we expect improved performance next year.
We will expand to 11 new markets in 2016 and we continue to expect exchanges to develop and mature over time into a strong viable growth market for us.
We've accelerated the uptake of our medical care quality programs to achieve star ratings beyond the strongly improved levels that the CMS recently published for payment year 2017.
Our Medicare stars improvement does come with a related increase in medical costs.
We are confident.
We have implemented the necessary steps to achieve our goal of 80% or more of our members in four-star or greater programs by payment year 2018.
Star quality improvements will strengthen our reimbursement rates in 2016 2017 and 2018 in which are Medicare advantage program's benefit offerings and further our growth and financial position.
Our 2015 commercial medical cost trend outlook continues to be biased towards the lower portion of our 5.5% to 6.5% full year forecast.
In total UnitedHealthcare has maintained nearly 6% operating margin year-to-date in 2015 identical to the year-to-date margin at this point in 2014.
[Driven] by year-to-date organic revenue growth of more than $9 billion UnitedHealthcare has advanced earnings from operations by $540 million which is a growth rate of more than 10%.
All three of our benefits businesses are producing strong results.
Let's turn a review of a couple examples that illustrate how we worked locally and use technology to serve the two most important participants in healthcare the doctor and the patients.
We are increasingly aligned with physicians and hospitals and we continue on our course to deliver $65 billion or more in care annually by 2018 through value-based care contracts.
Today these programs touch as many of 13 million of our consumers delivered in part through more than 650 accountable care arrangements.
This includes growth of more than 160 new accountable care arrangements so far this year alone.
In many instances these care providers and UnitedHealthcare bring in Optum to help and manage population risk and improve operational performance on a more systematic organization-wide basis.
Larry has given you a feel for how this trend positively affects demand for Optum's services.
Let me give you a few more examples.
Together with Optum we are also supporting physicians' operational needs with Link which we have discussed before.
Link is a cloud based digital platform that provides secure workspace and connectivity between physician offices and health plans enabling them to efficiently communicate and transact business.
By year-end 2015 Link will be serving more than 600 000 physicians nationwide.
We offer them connectivity to 75 distinct dedicated applications relevant to their operations.
We continue to grow both the installed customer base and the portfolio of applications and capabilities.
Our ability to fully serve physicians practices with core transactions and information exchange as well as scheduling referral processes transparency and other services.
On the patient side with Optum we increasingly focus on the local community and deliver care and services in people's homes.
You have heard about our house call program in Medicare and we have begun using it in targeted commercial and Medicaid patient situations as well.
The more than 1 million house calls our physicians and nurse practitioners will execute this year increases our medical spend upfront.
They encourage people to get annual care visits with our physician appropriate vaccinations and so on.
The benefits are substantial.
We have more satisfied consumers with better healthcare quality and we protect them from potentially higher medical costs down the road.
Consumer satisfaction and retention are significantly strengthened by the house calls experience.
At the community level we have hundreds of community health workers on the ground helping address the root causes of healthcare issues for Medicaid members with complex medical conditions.
We meet with them in their homes and help them access the health and social services they need to better manage their health.
This includes addressing housing employment access to healthy food and nutrition as well as transportation and other public support services.
Again UnitedHealthcare is improving the quality and consumer satisfaction while helping to reduce exposure to potentially higher costs from untreated or undertreated conditions.
Our people are also on-site in hospitals helping with discharge and follow-up care planning.
They are in physicians' offices helping address gaps in care and documenting Medicare quality compliance.
And they are on the phone and on the web treating every interaction as an opportunity to add value for the consumer by helping them understand the actions they need to take to improve their health.
You can see the benefit programs in approaches like these in our results.
Growth in local commercial markets where our efforts to be more local are having a positive effect distinguished and ongoing growth in service to large self-funded employers who are among the most informed and discriminating in assessing service quality innovation and total value.
Consistent Medicaid awards from States which focused on elements of quality service and total value in their valuation process.
In just the past few weeks we have been honored to be selected by the State of Michigan and the State of Texas for program expansions and we recently finalized our commitments to serve the [state of IOLA] as a culmination of their award process.
And our Medicare stars quality is sharply higher for 2016 and 2017.
Thanks to our employees and the strong performance of the care providers who have worked collaboratively with us to better serve seniors.
We believe UnitedHealthcare will continue to grow at a strong pace profitably improving its market share as a direct result of the quality consumer satisfaction and total value we deliver.
Before Steve sums up let me touch on the outlook for UnitedHealth Group as a whole.
Considering together both the positives and pressures of the first nine months of this year we continued to expect our full year 2015 results will fall within the range of $6.25 to $6.35 per share and we would remind you that that range absorbs $0.10 per share for Catamaran and compares favorably with our original outlook of $6 to $6.25 per share.
We continue to expect a further lift in the rate of earnings per share growth in 2016.
The range of street estimates for the next year it's quite wide and we expect to be within that range but not surprisingly we would begin in a more conservative posture or range as we have in prior years.
We were the first specific questions on 2016 financial performance to December 1 when we host our Annual Investor Conference in New York.
Let me turn it back to Steve.
Thank you Dave.
So Larry and Dave had given some sense for why we continue to be optimistic about our potential to deliver value throughout the broad healthcare system and to grow.
You heard some of our touch tones in their comments relationships built around for us collaboration and mutual respect for the challenges in delivering healthcare improving it and making it simpler for the people involved.
Innovation developing products and processes that truly help people solve real problems and then embedding and driving these ideas to scale quickly to improve the overall system.
Quality measured by health consumers physicians and other customers to find it and feel it.
Responsive and compassionate service which goes in hand-in-hand with quality and defines peoples' healthcare experience our aspiration is to serve others on their terms not ours.
Satisfaction and value which together capture how well you bring all these elements together to help people in differentiated ways.
We believe executing well on these elements at scale with nearly 200 000 dedicated people pulling in the same direction will make a difference for those we serve and drive distinctive sustaining growth across our enterprise.
Thank you for your interest this morning.
And now operator can we now take some questions.
[Operator Instructions].
We ask you to limit to one question per person so we can get to as many participants as possible.
Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Can you clarify a couple things you said about the cost trend that you said cost trend would be at the lower end of the guidance range of 5% to 6% then you said MLR would be above the mid-point of the guidance range.
I assume that the difference there is the spend on Medicare star scores can you talk about how much you're spending on Medicare star scores in the MLR component and what exactly the impact there is to you guys? Well I don't think we're going to get quite that granular but I think we can respond to that as kind of in themes and maybe between Dave and Dan.
Sure.
Pete I think you are right that the cost trend commentary around the commercial cost trend to be on the lower end of the 5.5% to 6.5% range.
The MLR is expected to be about the mid-point and you're right it's because of the impact of spending more on Medicare stars which is substantive in the quarter as well as for the full year.
I think you saw the results of some of our earlier efforts in our 2017 funding year and what we're really focused on right now is making sure that we continue to improve upon that so that the 2018 funding year is at that 80% four star or higher level across the board if not higher.
We also have -- as you know we have gone our government services mix quite a bit in our business and that is across Medicaid Medicare as we kind of group in the insurance exchange into that as well and those things have a tendency based upon based mix to biased that MLR up just a bit as well.
And how should we think about that going forward into 2016? Going forward in 2016 we continue to expect strong growth across all components of the UnitedHealthcare business as well as Optum influencing the MLR I think we'll see strikingly better performance on the insurance exchange business not only because of expansion but also because improvements in the overall MLR and operating cost structure of that program so it's about both.
I think you'll continue to see strong growth in both Medicare and Medicaid which will put some pressure on that as well but I would expect this to continue to go nicely in those two categories as well.
But growth in those categories so growth in government programs exchanges and so forth even middle-market tend to come at slightly lower margin so you're seeing that blend effect in these results.
And we'll spend more time with you on that at Investor Conference Peter.
Great.
And just did the underpayment of this quarter's impact this quarter at all? No they do not.
Thank you.
Next question please.
And we'll take the next question from Matthew Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Yes maybe if I can just continue of the discussion on the ACA exchanges.
Can you help us understand the elements make you confident that you're going get strikingly better? I think you said performance on the ACA exchanges next year.
I mean -- and maybe there is a good maybe this is bad I don't know but you have these co-ops sailing the largest in the New York market I assume that.
You may take up a lot or you may want to take up a lot of membership from that and you have price increases.
But it's unclear what the mix of membership is going to be next year with regard to health status.
So can you just talk to that? Sure.
Okay I'll let Dan and Jeff kind of comment on it Dan.
Sure Matt.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So with regard to the exchanges and some of the Dave's earlier comments so in the first half year this year we got industry data that suggested that the underlying use of medical services in that population was high and higher than we thought and the good news is we use that information as the foundation for our 2016 pricing.
So we put in strong price increases.
Average increases across the country are in the double-digits and we also took steps to eliminate some products and reposition other products.
So as we look at our exchange business for 2016 that really speaks to Dave's comments about why we expect to see very nice improvement year-over-year.
As it relates to our 2015 experience and our own block of business and what we're seeing in the first half of this year we did not see much in the way of medical use so we had much less used as members rolled on for the first four months of the year and they started to connected to coverage and care and so forth and we've seen an increase in that and so why we're calling it out we called it out in the context of mixed in the second quarter in the third quarter we're calling it out more specifically because on the year we expect the individual exchange business to put pressure on the consolidated care ratio.
However as Dave mentioned we fully expect to perform within the range of the guidance we provided last December at the Investor Conference.
Dan thank you.
That was great.
I'll get off now I know you have a lot of people.
Thanks Matt.
Thank you.
Next question please.
And we'll go next to Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Just a follow-up on the MA star investments.
You know talking about an overall MLR of this year is going to be above the mid-point.
Every 10 basis points as I know $130 million $140 million of investment on the full year so I don't know what that implies but that seems like pretty big investment.
So the two questions one are these sort of temporary in nature are they just impacting '15 are we going to see this continue into 2016 i.e.
could this be a possible tailwind for next year? And then how do you think about the ROI? What are you measuring? Are you just measuring simply the bonus? You have the reimbursement improvements and how do we think about sort of the cost versus -- the investment versus the upside from these investments? Sure.
So I guess somewhat globally I'd offer that the investments are significant and we have made that clear in the past and our goal to really get 80% or better of our overall Medicare at four stars and above.
There is also benefits associated with that because when you're achieving that level you have flexibility with benefits and the reimbursements are better so there is a -- and we're probably fund any more of the investments and we're getting the benefits at this point in time given the fact we were somewhat coming from behind if you will in terms of the overall star performance.
Dan or Steve do you want to comment further.
Josh to your question around do we expect levels to maintain yes we do.
We expect to make comfortable investments forward in our stars and quality performance.
And as you saw in the '17 payment data we saw nice progress.
In the year our performance for '15 is improving which will carry forward to improvement in 2018 performance but beyond the stars outcome we also have outcomes in terms of quality and performance underneath that as you look at medical cost and so forth that contribute.
So those are some of things living that play in and how we look at the balance between the cost and the return.
And given the look back nature of this market hasn't really seen our best performance in terms stars so we really haven't gotten the benefit part of that yet Steve.
Okay.
Josh it's Steve Nelson.
Good morning.
Hey just a little more color on the investments so when people talk about the medical cost you can think about things like provider incentives annual care visits impact of very specific programs like diabetic navigators and in terms of diabetic programs for that population.
In terms of administrative investment it's around things like that embedded practice support.
We have 2 000 clinicians that are focused on closing gaps of care locally and then we aren't orienting our organization like call centers to facilitate closure of gaps and getting people to the right care.
So these are all paying great dividends for our members.
We have 1.7 million members that are in improved plans of -- it's a great progress but as Steve and Dave have both noted we're not done.
With the progress we're not satisfied and look to improve on that our 2018 theme here to at least 80% of the members in the four star plans or higher.
And just a follow-up does that translate into above market level MA growth rates for you guys? You've been growing sort of -- let's call it in line with market this year.
Should we think '16 and maybe more or so in '17 and '18 that you start growing faster than the overall MA market? I think that would our hope.
If you sit back and send a return on investment I think this is a vital program.
We think it has great growth potential in terms of the demographics as well as the orientation of Medicare itself to be more towards Medicare advantage so this gives us opportunities with respect to benefits and I think it should translate to greater growth and that's why we're making those investments here.
Alright thanks.
Next question please.
And we'll go next to Sarah James with Wedbush.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
SG&amp;A was a bright point in the quarter came in better than consensus expectation.
And now that Catamaran is closed how should we think about run rate SG&amp;A I think guidance was pre-Catamaran at 17% plus or minus 30 basis points? Well we are always managing our SG&amp;A as tightly and appropriately as possible but we're also making investments that are often embedded in SG&amp;A investments in terms of some integration of the businesses as well as things that Dave mentioned such as Link and elements such as [indiscernible].
Do you want to start? Sure.
Sarah you're right that the Catamaran was probably the most significant influence on the care ratio in the quarter.
We also had to increase productivity impacts on that as well and then it's offset somewhat by the business mix as you can see from the growth from Optum as well as in our fee base programs and there is a little bit of an insurer fee offset as well.
We do expect Catamaran overall had pulled down that ratio by somewhere around 180 basis points or so in the quarter so we would expect that kind of a trend to continue as it relates to Catamaran but we would continue to expect some offset of that related to continued high growth in our services business over time.
Thank you.
Next question please.
And we'll go next to Sheryl Skolnick with Mizuho Securities U.S.
Thanks very much.
And once again nice very nice job on navigating through the various sundry challenges.
One of the things that intrigued me was the commentary about the opportunity being both domestic and international.
And if I read your press release correctly it looks like your healthcare global which we don't focus on all that much has actually a nice year-over-year growth rate.
So in the context of great change occurring not only U.S.
in terms of payment methods and industry structure but also overseas in Europe for example.
I'm wondering if we'd likely to see some renewed interest in that given that your [mill] experiment has now got some time under it.
And your thoughts on the potential for international to be a new growth area or expanded growth area for United.
It's a great question and we clearly are focused on international and the opportunities to really bring principally services to [bear] there.
Larry do you want to take it? Hey Sheryl.
Let me start by saying if you look to add the way that we're positioning ourselves and -- I think I mentioned this earlier the five what I'll call future growth area as you'd find international and you will also find that international pretty much wrap around most of the products that we offer in the state.
We obviously are working in Brazil to support a mill and we have people on the ground and we're building the Optum presence there and that's going extremely well.
We're starting to really take a look and I think I can talk about it somewhat at the U.K.
We've been there for a while but at this point time we're trying to look at some of the things that we've done with Optum360 and how that is working in the States and a lot of the challenges that are being experienced in the U.K.
we seem to be setting a pretty good spot to at least assess and have conversations and try to determine you know if we fit so it's early innings in terms of these discussions and what we're trying to do but we do see a future there.
And we think that some of the experience we had in healthcare.gov will actually apply and so we're kind of off and running at this point in time.
I think it's fair to say that even the best healthcare systems are interested in using information developing better measures to improve quality and performance in those really are a sweet spot for Optum.
Next question please.
We'll go next to Michael Baker with Raymond James.
Yes thanks a lot.
Given that we're in unprecedented time on the M&amp;A front I was wondering if you could point to any tangible benefits that you've seen so far or what you would expect to see as the process of review continues? As we kind of intimated in our last teleconference with you we really are not going to comment on the transactions of others.
I would say they're going through I'm presenting a regulatory review process and so we haven't really seen any real activity in the marketplace that we could offer any commentary on.
Alright thanks.
Thank you.
Next question.
And we'll next to David Windley with Jefferies.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
I wondered if you would be willing to comment on the client reaction that you have observed or experienced since the Catamaran closure or in and around the Catamaran closure.
What has been your retention rate or just kind of sense of retention there? And then secondly also with Catamaran are you commenting or willing to comment on the reset to your long-term margin goals with the change in mix that Catamaran brings into Optum? Thanks.
Sure.
I think it's a pretty positive story.
Do you want to start Larry? Sure.
Well I thought that I'll start and then I'm going to hand it off to Mark too because he is dealing with this on a day-to-day.
What I would say is we believe that -- our message is resonating with our client.
Now we do have very sophisticated knowledgeable and successful clients and that's actually a positive and as we have really gone out discussed our value proposition really talking about enhanced services talking about operational efficiency purchasing scale as well as synchronization.
I think across the board we're really feeling pretty good and think we have started off with a solid solid start.
So Mark maybe some comments? Yeah.
Thanks Larry.
David good morning.
Well we spent the last 90 days on an airplane.
And as Larry and I've visited really all our largest clients as you'd expect and that includes health plans employers.
We visited the consultant marketplace.
And I have to tell you the reaction has been universally positive.
I mean our clients like the scale of this combination.
They like the fact that we've had a 10-year relationship and that really basically represent no conversion risk in terms of platform conversion.
They especially liked the fact that we've got a very expanded service offering with the full suite of Optum services and many of them have been looking at and in fact buying those services along the way anyway and so I like the fact that we've got a good team and the same teams in place and we continue to take care of them and obviously they are liking our value proposition so we're feeling pretty good about client reactions.
And I'd say overall my early read is things are looking good.
I'll just go on to say that the integration work is off and running and the first 90 days have been very [crisp] we're off to a good start in bolting these businesses together.
Very good.
Thank you.
And does this change your margin Larry your margin goal long-term? Maybe I could offer a perspective on that.
With a portfolio of margins across the expanse of our total business and so different products and services will actually drive different margins and appropriately.
So we have some businesses that are strong double-digits and we have businesses that are low single-digits and we're looking to drive and expand margin but do it in appropriate ways -- appropriate ways meaning we're driving value and consistency we're driving productivity that doesn't really compromise service and so forth.
So as these elements come into our total portfolio across UnitedHealth Group they are certainly going to change the mix of that margin but in total we're driving towards appropriately expanding margins and so as these elements come in they are just going to change the mix they are not really going to influence the performance of the business.
Okay thank you.
Next please.
We'll go to Andy Schenker with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
So I appreciate you on the first specifics on 2016 financial performance at the Analyst Day but you've already mentioned several sounds like to tailwinds including Medicare and exchanges for next year so maybe if you could just discuss in summary of these broad headwinds and any tailwinds for 2016.
That would be helpful.
Thank you.
Sure.
We look at some things that we sit back and -- when you really do the pluses and minuses of it some of the things that are headwinds now turned to be tailwinds and new of versions of them appears headwinds.
So for example I think our year one market -- for our year one markets for exchanges will actually be a positive for next year but we are moving them to 11 new markets and so we will have to see how those markets will play out.
I think our advances in stars is a positive but as Steve indicated we have clear aspirations ambitions to improve our stars performance so that we will continue to be working on that level as well.
I think OptumRx will have integration benefits but they will also have integration costs so I think those kinds of things start to play out.
I think our Brazil performance is strengthening but that markets stability is something we're watching closely.
I think there will be some -- we are getting nice growth in List and Medicaid and we have some new successes there but we are going to have to implement them and just given the total performance we seeing rate pressures across Medicaid.
So we try to take somewhat measured look as we kind of set our outlook for next year that we have a portfolio of these pluses and minuses but in total we very much like where our business is in the growing capabilities.
The deployment across the expanse of the markets tend to even out these pluses and minuses so we're pretty optimistic about next year and as Dave indicated we're looking to accelerate our earnings growth rate.
Thank you.
Next.
And we'll go to Chris Ray with Susquehanna Financial Group.
Hey good morning.
Just wondering can you give us a sense for how Catamaran impacted the quarter whether it was dilutive accretive neutral and then just some specifics around the integration costs in what the intangible amortization related to the [indiscernible] in the quarter? Thanks.
So Catamaran contributed nicely to the quarter to achieve what expectations we had for it and similarly the cost associated with initial integration activities were consistent with what our expectations were as well.
Maybe I can give you specifics about how it contributed the one thing that we did do is we suspended our share repurchase so that had a negative effect and for the full year as we indicated earlier we expect that would cost us about $0.10 a share all in but we were able to manage to overcome that and retain -- and continue to advance our guidance as well.
In terms of the increased levels of amortization it's about somewhere around $0.20 a year think about it in that context and we're on a base of about a run rate of UnitedHealth Group somewhere around $0.34 a year so combined maybe thinking after 2016 our run rate basis around $0.54 of amortization for year.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Next question please.
Next we'll go to A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks.
Maybe following up on a little bit on that last question.
Two things on the buyback upfront obviously you'd laid out a plant with Catamaran is there any update on that plant [indiscernible] related to next year and there is a volatility of the markets sway that in any way you think is better opportunities so there may be a quick way to come back and buy stock more aggressively and then just with the comment on the amortization there will be a bigger disparity with these pending deals complete on the year reporting GAAP EPS and everyone else reporting cash EPS any thoughts about that and maybe changing that? Sure.
So Dan maybe you want to take the first one I'll take second.
Sure.
On the buyback front what we'd indicated is that that would reduce the level of buybacks for about 18 months or so and we expect to continue to maintain that reduced level through the end of next year think about it.
And our target is to get somewhere around 40% liquidity ratio that's not hard and fast of course we're going to continue to pursue M&amp;A opportunities and of course if we would need to step up our share repurchase activities because of some kind of market events or otherwise I think we have the flexibility to do so.
So there is nothing kind of hard and fast about the way in which we operate that we manage our capital structure effectively over time.
But we're generally on a course towards a 40% total debt to total cap rate.
And then in terms of the kind of supplemental [indiscernible] earnings I think will address that at the Investor Conference coming up and we'll likely begin to provide the supplemental information with respect to how we would perform on both basis.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Next question please.
And we'll go next to Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Great thanks.
So I don't know whether I'm just spoiled or what but you guys mentioned how you beat number and [raise] guidance a few times earlier this year.
So I was a little bit surprised that there wasn't more upside in the quarter or around the guidance? And I understand the dynamics around high exchange MLR and stars investment but these are things that you largely would have anticipated probably at the beginning of the year in a very least when you reported Q2 results and provided a guidance back then so I'm just trying to figure out if there is something that you would point to that didn't quite work out the way that you were thinking heading into Q3 report or some of that that you're worried about into Q4? I personally keep coming back to trend because you start out with -- I know you guys provided guidance [I assume] kind of rise back to normal so you startup providing guidance then you are at the lower end of the range and now you're reiterating at the lower end of the range so does that imply that trend is in fact rising has it gone through the year because that combined with the lack of it into your development makes me wonder if there is something underneath there.
So I guess answer that specifically and if I'm embarking up the longer tree if there is anything else you might highlight as a headwind.
Well again I might respond fanatically.
First of all I think if you take a look at our year-to-date performance it actually is a pretty solid performance [indiscernible] top line growth and strong translation of that to bottom-line performance.
I think we maintain a healthy respect for medical cost trends and I think as we indicated before the medical costs within our expectations.
Our patient continues to be strong and robust and growing.
Specialty pharma continues to be strong.
We haven't really talked much about that this morning but none of those things have gone away so we remain respectful of medical costs and also the fact that they have been moderate for quite some time and I don't know if you can assume we do not assume for pricing that they will stay that way.
I think as Dan indicated as we got into the exchanges have we were thoughtful about making sure that as we price for next year that we used kind of the broader industry experience as opposed to our own because we really had a pretty favorable experience in the first half of the year in terms of the exchanges and they have matured kind of more in line with the industry.
Is that right Dan? Yes.
I think that's fair.
Because you might point to that and you know continuing to be watchful of that.
We continue to make investments in -- so Medicare stars is a look back process so really the results that you're seeing are really the results of prior periods and we have intensified our efforts to make sure that we are really going to be a market leader with respect to stars that's what we had indicated before so we continue to make investments there in things like that and we're going to continue that.
Things like that we mentioned Medicaid and Medicaid expansions continued rate pressures there so I think we have to be respectful of all those elements in and the strong performance we're achieving and then I think that's why we're kind of measured with respect to keeping our outlook the same and being serious about a range when we do but also being very optimistic about where we see our business in the fact that we expect to grow even more strongly than we did this year.
So I just think it's being measured and trying to be responsible about all the elements that play into our business Okay so that makes sense.
You're being conservative you're still optimistic.
I guess one I don't know way to clarification.
So I think last quarter you talked about how you thought the United's earnings might accelerate on a core basis.
Is that still the message that you're giving now? You'd mentioned a lot of puts and takes earlier on.
I just wasn't sure if they all sum up to the core business is accelerating over the last changed at all? Yeah we did and we basically very much said that and said that in terms as we're expecting our earnings per share and so forth to grow at a fast rate next year than this year.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Next question please.
And we'll go next to Sean Wieland with Piper Jaffray.
Thank you very much.
So my question is on ICD10 was it a headwind or a tailwind in the quarter for Optum? And over the past couple weeks have you seen any changes in denial rates? And then on a go forward basis what is ICD10 doing to your business in Optum? So Bill do you want to comment that Bill Miller.
Yeah Sean.
I'll talk to you on behalf for Optum.
Particularly where a lot of those services sit in terms of helping health systems payors go through the changes with respect ICD10 particularly on and understand we're in this for a few weeks here but already we're seeing a certain uptake in a lot of our services and a lot of our products and a lot of our content as the market is preparing and now acting in response to the changes and so there is some seasonality in the back half of our business and it's being enhanced.
I think we can see that in the numbers in terms of the uptake of our content in the back half of the year.
So overall from a services perspective delivering value to the clients ICD10 has been a lift for Optum across the board.
Dirk do you want to comment on the [indiscernible] question? Yeah sure.
You know from an operational standpoint overall the implementation is going pretty smoothly but what I caution is they were only 15 days into that.
Having said that we spend years getting our systems ready working them with the provider community to ensure success.
The overwhelming majority providers in the marketplace are submitting claims consistent with the ICD10 requirements.
Our claim submission rate so far consistent with expectations and for those limited number of providers we're having difficulty.
We're able to identify [them] and get after them quickly so that they submit consistent with requirements so far so good.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Thank you.
And next one would be Gary Taylor with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Thank you.
Actually just two quick ones.
First would you guys quantify where you health exchange enrolment is today? Sure.
Dan? 550 000 lives.
Okay.
And the 11 new markets for next year I guess we don't know what markets those are or the size.
Can you give us a sense of magnitude of -- you get the same sort of share what type of growth that might have on the 550 000? We're not really giving guidance out for next year until our Investor Conference so I really wouldn't want to kind of shoot from the hip on this.
We do expect -- we'll grow and we've taken some of the learning from this year as we have kind of entered those markets but I think we're going to save guidance with respect to specifics on next year for our Investor Conference.
Okay great.
One more quick one if I could.
When we look at your statutory filings through the first half and understanding all the vagaries and nuances we do see a very compelling trend in the commercial business that I think ties with your comments around the commercial cost trend expecting to be lower end of that trend but it did look like Medicare and Medicaid MLRs deteriorated somewhat in the 2Q.
So I don't know if you'd be willing to offer any specific commentary on the product basis? Dan I don't know if you can comment on it.
I would tell you that there are meaningful differences between our GAAP financials and our statutory financials and now how those get reported and how they flow through over time.
So from my perspective I wouldn't read through anything on statutory statements specifically.
Thank you.
Next question.
Next will be [Ralph Jacoby with Citi].
Thanks.
Good morning.
I just want to go back to the stars spending I guess when did that spending star was it disproportionate and I guess to the third quarter.
And your commentary about it sort of sustaining I guess into next year.
Is it sort of the level off or could it be lower where the initial spend is higher in this quarter having more sort of magnified impact.
And then I guess why not quantify this spend in that area to sort of help on kind of understanding more of 'core' and then similar sort of your last answer to the question maybe even directionally can you help us think about MLR trends by end market? Thanks.
Dan do you want to comment? Sure Ralph.
On the star spend I would tell you that we have been making investments.
We really started in the 2014 timeframe in the middle of that year and then we have increased that in 2015.
And I would tell you in the relationship between the second and the third quarter as an example.
So we put programs in place and what we had mentioned is that we've seen an acceleration in the take up so we had the programs in place we had an expected outcome for it and frankly we're having more people that are accepting house calls that are getting annual care business as Steve Nelson mentioned.
And part of that's due to our service model so we've been taking that interaction point and really trying to leverage it and help facilitate connecting people to care and that's showing up and also we have member and provider incentives and those burn into the market we're seeing the take up rates on those increase.
So we have spending in '14 we increased it in '15 and we have seen an acceleration in the take up rate as we moved from the first half into the second half of the year.
In terms of the sizing maybe one way to help orient your thinking around it as you'd looked at our consolidated medical care ratio on a year-over-year basis.
There is a couple of things that contributed to that.
You can obviously see the change in development as one element stars and quality investment is another element and mix as a third is kind of the three principal drivers.
And in terms of the share in contribution to it within a reasonable range on each of those so that gives you some sense for the kind of sizing on it.
And we expect the investments to carry into 2016 and we're seeing nice progress on our performance in 2015 which will lend itself to better star outcomes for 2018 payment year.
And on exchange steps your blunt commentary.
Thank you.
Next question.
And we'll next to Ana Gupte with Leerink.
Thanks for taking my question good morning.
I was wondering what the directional trends were for the commercial [launch] ratio this quarter? I know you see utilization [indiscernible] which is great but when you combine that with the overall pricing environment and then the balancing out with mixture of things small group exchanges and the likes? Dan Jeff? Sure.
As you look at care ratios Ana in the quarter we saw an increase in our care ratios in our principle health benefits businesses so our Medicare Medicaid and commercial and then offsetting that as we talked about kind of the full year theme in the Investor Conference.
We're seeing improvement in international offsetting that sound so directionally up.
And then going into 2016 as you say some of the headwinds [get turned] and become tailwinds.
What does this look like from a pricing perspective specifically overall? And then in the New York market their small group definition is now being changed to only 50 and below how does that impacted? And also finally with [indiscernible] not being fully reimbursed [indiscernible] do you see a better pricing environment with plans that could have lost money like the blues or [lots of profit]? I think it's a couple minutes to sort out that four dimensional question but Jeff do you want it? Hey Ana it's Jeff Alter good morning.
I'll try to answer it in a sort of general term.
We said last quarter and I think we see it continuing the market is firming a little bit on pricing.
For our pricing in '16 as Steve said we are respectful of the slow trend environment perhaps changing.
I think we took very prudent actions in the pricing that we have for our individual exchanges for '16 as Dan mentioned.
We have not changed our forward pricing philosophy.
We are very discipline about that but also respectful of trending outpatient specialty drugs new drugs coming to market.
So our pricing I think is strong for '16.
New York market kind of your question around 2250 to 299 New York will be a 2299 market as well a couple other states.
We have assumed our thoughts for our growing growth for the rest of this year and for next year that there would be some transitional relief so that the change last week really isn't much of the surprise to us because we're already preparing for a large part to that market to go through some transitional [relief] so our pricing in '16 is in alignment with the change in the law last week.
Alright.
Thanks so much.
Next question please.
We'll take maybe two more.
And we'll take the next question from Christine Arnold with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Hey there.
I'd like to put the focus a little bit to Optum.
You said that you were seeing some interest in innovative services by Federal Government and this seems like a pretty big opportunity as well as in some international markets.
It's always struck me that the fee-for-service Medicare program doesn't have a lot and we have care coordination and from the other things that Optum provides might there be an interest in that in terms of the Optum capabilities the fee-for-service Medicare population.
And if not I'm thinking about that incorrectly how should I be thinking about that? Larry you want to comment? Christine I think you're spot on in terms of what we're trying to do with the Federal Government.
And as you know we've had some involvement with CMS in previous programs and so forth with where Optum has been involved on healthcare.gov.
And as we are putting our programs together we're constantly working with them and talking about the different services the different data analytics and it really pretty much everything that Optum has to offer.
So your suggestion is a good one one we know about and one that we're actually working on.
You know these are large RFPs as you can imagine.
We're pretty much aware of how they work and when they're going to be coming down the road but I think we're fully engaged and understand what we need to do and we're better positioned today than we might have been in the past because of the situation that we had with healthcare.gov we kind of stepped out of that now and that was one of the reasons that we did it so we would play in more of the RFPs.
But Medicare would be a department of the Federal Employee Benefit Plan State Programs and then Larry commented on kind of the international versions of all of the above.
I think all those are going to the areas that are going to try to improve performance and that Optum is perfectly positioned for that.
And with respect to timing should we be thinking about that as something we see in the next year or is this something that takes five years? I just don't have good sense for your workings of the government.
I think that some of the areas that Steve just talked about there is different timing there is some that's deal within the next I would six months but some of them could go out two years so it's a variety of situations.
When the RFPs are [due] but as I would comment on it I think I kind of said is we have a lot of people we don't have an organization it's dedicated to the government business Dr.
Steve said whether it would be state or federal and it could also include the VA and what we're doing DoD so it's not just like a set time that I could give you but I would say that if we looked at our qualified pipeline in terms of how we're looking at the business that is somewhere we're staying around $20 billion and a substantial piece of that would fall in the government business.
Great.
Thanks.
One last question please.
And our final question comes from Tom Carroll with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys good morning.
So do you believe that the market and particularly large self-insured employers perhaps will give United a stronger look than usual if there is such a thing in 2016 as your large competitors are involved in some pretty sizable M&amp;A? Well I would hope they would give us a look because of the values that we deliver and the quality and consistency of our services and the breadth of the things that we bring.
And I would say also the innovative dynamic we are well-known for being in the forefront of innovation.
And we have really compelling cost structures and probably deeper into in more diverse and care management to the commentary this morning.
So I would hope that they would be looking at us for those elements and then good if they're concerned about other dynamics in the marketplace I can't comment on that but I would hope it is for the former and so I would kind of leave it at that.
I do think the marketplace will be strong and robust in the next couple years.
Jeff do you agree? Yes Steve.
Just reminder we already served an overwhelming majority of that marketplace and I think the value that Steve described is seen by those clients today and we hope that that reputation continues to help us grow into the marketplace that we don't currently in.
I think we're looking at a strong national outlook for next year.
As we mentioned in the last call our '16 national account season has progressed very nicely towards the end right now and we'd see a better '16 season in '15 which was better than '14 so the momentum and trajectory is something that we're very pleased with.
Great.
Thank you.
So thank you.
We are pleased to have delivered good performance year-to-date.
We'll continue to improve the quality of our products and services as our last commentary.
And we remain optimistic about 2016 and look forward to sharing more information with you about the future of UnitedHealth Group Optum and UnitedHealthcare at our Investor Conference on December 1.
So thank you for your attention today.
And this does conclude today's program.
Thanks for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good morning I will be your conference operator today.
Welcome to UnitedHealth Group Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
A question-and-answer session will follow UnitedHealth Group's prepared remarks.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
Here is some important introductory information.
This call contains forward-looking statements under U.S.
federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or present expectations.
A description of some of the risks and uncertainties can be found in reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the cautionary statements included in our current and periodic filings.
This call will also reference non-GAAP amounts.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP to GAAP amounts is available on the financial reports and SEC Filing section of the Company's Investors page at www.unitedhealthgroup.com.
Information presented on this call is contained in the earnings release we issued this morning and in our Form 8-K dated January 19 2016 which may be accessed from the Investors page of the company's website.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group Mr.
Stephen Hemsley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us today as we close on 2015 and look ahead to 2016.
We finished 2015 in line with the guidance provided at our December Investor Conference with fourth adjusted earnings per share at $1.40 brining full year 2016 adjusted earnings per share to $6.45.
Overall UnitedHealthcare had a positive year and finished with strong fourth quarter growth exceeding 300 000 members and growing across all its markets.
Optum delivered an exceptionally strong fourth quarter with revenues up 70% and earnings up 46% over the prior year.
Before we go into the business commentary let me offer a brief recap of 2015.
2015 UnitedHealth Group revenue grew more than 20% to $157 billion with organic revenue growth of 10%.
Our cash flows were exceptional at $9.7 billion up 21% year-over-year.
Our dividend increased 33% to an annual rate of $2 per share this year.
United Healthcare grew to serve more than 1.7 million more people domestically as Optum grew its revenues by 42% and revenue backlog by more than 20%.
Excluding the impact of individual exchange compliant products and reserves related to the initiation of a new Medicaid contract UnitedHealth Group still grew revenues by 19% in 2015 and grew operating earnings 15% to $11.8 billion and that would have produced an adjusted earnings per share of $7 a 16% year-over-year increase again absent those items to give you an idea of the underlying strength of the enterprise.
We know the individual exchanges are top of mind to you and Dave Wichmann will discuss these fully in his comments.
As we said at the investor conference the balance of our total business to well more than a 175 billion of it is driving considerably stronger and better position than this time last year.
We are committed to delivering a strong 2016 performance year in growth in financial results and in the quality of our services and net promoter score or NPS performance metrics.
2016 is off to a strong start considerably stronger than 2015.
Our initial growth trends are very encouraging and our service performance for new January business is strong.
Optum’s revenue backlog and pipelines have never been stronger.
Medical cost in the fourth quarter trended slightly better than expected and we are confident our benefit businesses have appropriately priced our products for 2016.
Our operating business platforms drive these results so I will ask Larry Renfro to review Optum’s performance for full year 2015 and Dave Wichmann to cover UnitedHealthcare and provide some UnitedHealth Group enterprise live comments.
Larry? Thanks Steve.
2015 was without question an exceptional performance year for Optum in revenues and earnings growth.
And then our preparations to setup 2016 to deliver well for the nearly 115 million people we serve.
Optum’s businesses have strong momentum and are producing strong sustainable growth across the board.
Since beginning the one Optum journey in 2011 we have compounded revenues at 23% per year and operating earnings at 34% per year.
In 2015 Optum’s revenues of $67.6 billion grew 42% including organic revenue growth of 13%.
OptumRx revenues grew 51% this past year to $48 billion and even excluding the Catamaran combination posted solid double digit organic growth.
OptumHealth and OptumInsight together grew revenues to more than $20 billion which is growth of 24% over 2014.
Our full year operating margin of 6.3% reflects the increase mix of pharmacy care services revenues drive by OptumRx organic growth in five months of Catamaran business.
Both OptumHealth and OptumInsight strong full year 2015 margins are sustainable and we project operating margin expansion for OptumRx in 2016.
In 2015 we added to our strategic relationship portfolio which now numbers 10 and we’ve remained focused on developing more of those comprehensive large scale relationships.
They leverage Optum’s unique end-to-end capabilities to help solve the broader challenges customers and prospects are facing in a changing healthcare environment whether they are physicians or hospitals health benefit sponsors governments or consumers.
To illustrate consider our Optum360 revenue management relationship with Dignity Health where cash flows have already improved by $1.5 billion and accounts are being settled before eight days faster and where are documentation technology is helping Dignity Health physicians meet demanding ICD10 requirements even as they are realizing a 50% gain in productivity.
Our consider OptumCare our expanding care delivery business in which we are developing some of the most impactful and durable consumer relationships.
Today we serve seven million patients to more than a 150 payer relationships across our physician practices our community based clinical services and our MedExpress neighborhood care centers.
MedExpress operates at the conversions of healthcare and retail measuring success one patient at a time.
MedExpress can provide as much as 90% of the care patients receive in the ER and for as little as 10% of the cost.
MedExpress mitigates cost for both payers and consumers while providing high quality convenient care.
We currently operate over a 160 neighborhood care centers with a goal of operating several multiples of that number five years from now.
Today there are OptumCare clinics in more than 270 locations in 26 local markets having recently added pro health in the Connecticut market to that distinctive high performance practice portfolio.
Our pipeline for growth is gaining momentum as well.
The OptumCare approach we expect local market norms and expectations and our doctors consistently deliver a high quality results for the communities they serve.
We consistently outperform benchmarks around the acute care readmissions and skilled nursing facility stays.
More than three quarters of private Medicare patients we care for are in health plans rates four starts or better and more than 96% of our patients would recommend our local care provider office to workers.
For patients with complex medical conditions our integrated care model has proven distinctive results.
We deliver on average a 50% reduction in overall healthcare cost for medically complex patients with very high patient and family satisfaction.
A number of OptumCare’s high performing practices have been nationally recognized for their performance and council care initiatives including Monarch in Southern California and ProHEALTH in New York metro area.
And finally our healthcare services continued to deliver clear and distinctive value for Medicare recipients and payers with 98% patient satisfaction and more than one million visits to patients in their homes delivered in 2015 and further growth in 2016.
With the market momentum we have today and through these constantly advancing capabilities we expect OptumCare will remain a high growth business for many years to come.
As we care other examples in future quarters that reflect Optum’s growing diversification such as our military and veteran’s health services or our pharmacy care services or our technology support services you should say with even more clarity a pattern immerging.
The application of data technology and services to bring better performance helping health systems work better for everyone.
Today revenues from our top 25 customer relationships at Optum have quite rubbled over the last three years.
In 2015 the average customer awards has doubled across OptumHealth and OptumInsight and we expect continued strong customer retention at OptumRx we work to bring the powerful benefits of the OptumRx merger to these clients.
Common health organizations continued to enquire about how our capabilities can help them so we are exploring potentially large and interesting new strategic relationships.
In many cases these parings could further accelerate growth in the OptumInsight backlog which now exceeds $10.4 billion and grew by more than 20% year-over-year.
Within the current portion of that backlog we already cover more than 80% of OptumInsight’s full year projected 2016 revenues.
We remain optimistic about the prospects for Optum in 2016 2017 and beyond.
For 2016 we are projecting revenues to well exceed $80 billion which would be growth in the area of 20% and for operating earnings to grow 30% to 34% to more than $5.55 billion.
Optum is becoming an increasingly valuable business and now represents about 42% of UnitedHealth Group’s consolidated operating earnings outlook.
Now let me turn it over to Dave.
Thank you Larry.
UnitedHealthcare continues to differentiate itself from competitors on a foundation of distinctive service product innovation and integrated clinical and network value and the result is strong sustainable growth.
UnitedHealthcare new serves 46.4 million medical members and we have leading market positions in all private health insurance segments of North and South America.
Over the past five years we have grown by nearly 13.5 million people or 40% well diversified across commercial government programs and international offerings.
This reflects the delivery of diversification and consisting competiveness of our offerings globally.
UnitedHealthcare continued to strength in 2015 growing to serve 1.75 million more people domestically as they continue to improve its market share.
UnitedHealthcare’s full year revenues grew nearly 10% to $131.3 billion.
The full year operating margins of 5.1% decreased as expected declining 70 basis points year-over-year due to the effects of public insurance exchange products.
Full year commercial medical cost trends of 5.5% came in at a low end of our initial outlook one year ago.
Our cost trends reflect a positive sustainable impact of higher consumer engagement strong alignment of incentives with care professionals grew value based relationships and improving data collection and application.
We are equally pleased with immerging innovation trends in our business focused on advancing the consumer movement in healthcare.
Today 25 million consumers are served through our Advocate4Me service model.
People served by this innovative approach are more engaged in their health and are more effective in their healthcare decision making and are more satisfied.
Today over 23 million consumers have joined our Rally Digital Health applications and we are seeing steady advances in daily active use of these services.
Including importantly engagement around selecting primary care physicians better used of urging care over emergency care screenings and higher adoption of personal health and condition management programs.
And today our Real Appeal digital medical service designed to help manage weight and reduce the onset of diabetes has been deployed to accounts representing one million people in just the last half of 2015 and with an additional half million committed for the first half of 2016.
The initial results are encouraging with 46% of participants achieving a meaningful reduction of 5% or more of their body weight within 16 weeks.
5% weight loss reduces the conversion to diabetes by nearly 60% according to studies conducted by the Nation Institutive Health.
Give these exceptional results we plan to make available digitally a broader set of preventative medical services to engage people to live healthier lives to the fullest.
Across UnitedHealthcare we intend to continue to positively impact the quality of social services condition management cost and quality transparency convenient care wellness and the overall quality of life of the consumers we serve by giving them the tools like these to engage them in their health.
Our work is improving the quality of patient care.
In Medicare we help close 9 million gaps in care for the seniors we serve.
We will serve 1.7 million members in health plans with higher star ratings in 2017 as we expect at least 63% of our members to be in a four star plan and we will further improve that percentage in 2018 to 80% or more.
It is not a coincidence we are off to our strongest growth start for Medicare Advantage in company history.
We expect to close first quarter with growth of around 300 000 seniors and Medicare Advantage and we are tracking well against our full year outlook of 325 000 to 400 000 people in that growth.
In commercial benefits we combine cheered networks our clinical strategies an innovative product designs in ways to align to a wider rate of affordable price points for employers and consumers.
Today one third of our commercial customers are served through one of these more affordable plan offerings.
That’s double the number from five years ago.
And we expect that percentage to more than double again over the next five years aiding to our exceptional growth.
In Medicaid over the past two years we are secured new contract awards totaling more than 2 million people.
Manage Medicaid continues to immerge as the ultimate long terms sustaining solution for states and we believe UnitedHealthcare offers our state customers the most distinctive and comprehensive set of capabilities.
Like in Medicare and commercial we are well positioned for 2016 growth in community and state.
Turning to exchanges we expect to start the year at around 700 000 or fewer public exchange members and expect these numbers will steadily decline over the course of the year.
We are not pursuing membership growth and have taken a comprehensive set of actions to contain membership and sharpen performance over the balance of 2016.
We have withdrawn platinum products increased prices eliminated marketing and commissions intensified clinical engagement and medical management with this membership group and reduced operating cost as appropriate.
As a matter of prudence we have increased our premium deficiency reserve by $65 million above our Investor Conference estimates bringing the total fourth quarter charge to $340 million.
245 million of that charge addresses 2016’s exchange compliant product exposure.
This is an addition to the unreserved losses including in our 2016 outlook combined more than $1.5 billion set aside for 2016.
We believe we are fully captured 2016 exposure now based on our actual starting enrollment.
And by mid-2016 we will determine to what extend if any we will continue to offer products in the exchange market in 2017.
In Medicaid the start of the new program in Hawaii has been deferred while the state has also increased the assigned enrollment for each contracted plans which increases our estimate of revenues.
We are in constructive discussions with the state concerning elements of an effective and sustainable managed Medicaid program to serve that market.
As we look into 2016 and 2017 we believe UnitedHealthcare will continue to grow at a strong pace and profitably improve its market share.
Fundamentally UnitedHealthcare is emerging across the spectrum of consumer driven products service wellness transparency and most important care engagement and clinical quality particularly in government programs.
We have room to improve but we sharp focused on NPS and the quality of the work we do in a cultured centered around helping others we have an opportunity to offer even greater value to consumers providers and customers are like in the coming years.
Before Steve sums up let me touch on the outlook for UnitedHealth Group as a whole.
We are committed to strong performance in 2016 across UnitedHealthcare and Optum in service in operations in growth in earnings generating and in cash flow production.
We foresee cash flow is approaching $10 billion and adjusted net earnings of $7.60 to $7.80 per share.
Again adjusted net earnings for us is GAAP EPS plus after tax intangible amortization.
We encourage everyone to move to adjusted net earnings to enable better comparability among companies and among the analysts community.
We expect about 46% to 47% of full year earnings in the first half of the year with Optum at approximately 40% of its full year plan in the first half exactly as you saw it last year and in the past.
We expect the rate of our earnings growth to strengthen during 2016.
Current consensus street estimates for first quarter adjusted earnings per share might be slightly strong compared to our expectations at the moment.
All in we have a strong view of 2016 and look forward to this year.
Steve? Thank you Dave.
At our investor conference we offered a sense of the growing innovation and entrepreneurial activity in our company and the restless drive our team has to grow and improve performance.
On the customer side we are committed to further elevating satisfaction for consumers care providers and all our stakeholders to levels more often seen outside our industries to better meet the increasing expectations people and society have for healthcare.
When our net promoters scores reflect people being staunch advocates for our products and businesses because of the way we make their simpler and the value we provide as they define and experience it as consumers and customers will be on the path creating truly distinctive and substantial growth and brand equity.
We believe a differentiated brand and reputation will drive accelerated growth in market share for our businesses for years to come.
Our goal for serving you as investors in 2016 is simple.
We are committed to delivering clean strong results this year back by a growing pipeline of opportunities for 2017 and beyond.
We expect distinguish revenue growth earnings and cash flow in 2016 that continued to reflect the diversity breath and overall strength of our enterprise and the valuable businesses we are building.
Thank you for your interest today.
And operator can we take some question this morning.
One per analyst please.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we can take our first question from Matthew Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi good morning.
Could you just talk about what the factors were that caused you take increase your booking for anticipated losses in 2016.
I guess maybe I think it was 45 million higher on the exchange side and 20 million higher on the Medicaid contract if I got that right? Yes you do.
And it’s really just purely updating and I think Dan Schumacher can take you through that.
Good morning Matt.
Good morning.
So you are right.
We did increase our loss expectations for 2016.
And when it came to really as we closed out the year we took - we took a prudent past year on the ‘15 impact and then we carried that through to 2016 outlook and then we adjusted further for a little higher enrollment expectation for 2016 so those are the elements that played into the increase in both the ‘15 impact and the assumed losses for ‘16 in the individual exchange compliant plan offerings.
And then with regard to the Medicaid potion that’s simple just a function of a higher enrollment expectation as the number of carries was reduced from four down to three.
But when you put that all together in total as we close the year it was about a $100 million of impact beyond what our guidance had assumed from December and - Okay.
So our base business the vast majority of our business performed exceptionally well and we delivered fully in line with the expectations as we closed out ‘15.
And then as we look to ‘16 we’ve incorporated that again fully into our outlook as we reaffirm out guidance for ‘16.
And if I could just one related question in the four quarter on individual enrollment I think your total book is about 1.2 million how did that change as a result of the maybe in - at the end of the year and then coming into this year as a result of the coop insolvencies and related instability in the individual market? So and I think the last time we talked we talked about our individual exchange compliant being about 700 000 of that 1.2 million you’ve referenced.
As we closed out the year that came in at about 650 000 lines and then we’ll expect that to grow as we step into January and then it will start to shrink again over the course of the year as some of those enrollment and will these trade out.
Okay thank you.
And that we just say is kind of an overarching flats and our goal is in this area is to be careful conservative and to make sure that we really capture all this so that we really do have the rest ‘16.
Next question please.
And we’ll take our next question from Josh Raskin with Barclays.
Hi thanks good morning.
I want to talk a little about Medicare Advantage another CMS data is relatively preliminary but certainly seems like you guys are well on page to beat the 400 000 for the full year at the high end.
So just curious you know doesn’t sound you got much star improvement this year so what made your products more attractive is it more retention is it you know more agents or coming from other plans just any color on where this is - where the growth is coming from? Sure.
It is good growth as Dave indicated but Steve Nelson can really respond to that and it is a very positive story.
Thanks Steve.
Hi Josh it’s Steve Nelson.
Yes very positive about the growth that we are seeing coming through the AP and it’s little inside into that growth.
First it’s important to remember that it comes as a result of and after a couple year of really hard work as we repositioned this product to some of that change in Medicare Advantage program introduced premiums created a more aligned engaged network and relationships with our providers and meaningful improvement in stars as you mentioned.
And you know second we really like where the growth is coming from and so I think Dave mentioned in his comments about 300 000 or so as a result of AP about third of that comes from Group so really inside into that pricing in that membership.
And then within the individual business meaningful improvement in our retention also has added to this growth.<br> And this is membership that you know we’ve been engaged with and they’ve been involved in our clinical programs.
And it’s very evenly spread across geography and products but the stability of our products the evolution of our portfolio is really resonating in the market.
And so that’s all contributes to the growth and we expect this as a Medicare Advantage product to continue to grow as we look to 2017 and beyond.
And Steve just a quick follow-up on that do you have a percentage of how many are coming from previously not in MA whether that’s agents or tradition people service versus how many are coming from other plans competing plans? It’s a little early to give that kind of color but I would say in general in terms of how we look at the membership it’s very much in line with our expectations.
Okay thanks.
Next question please.
And our next question comes from Andy Schenker with Morgan Stanley.
Hey thanks.
Maybe just going back to the exchange enrollment real quickly just a few on the membership maybe if you could talk a little bit about how your positioning or membership growth compared to the existing states versus the 11 new states you entered and then relates that obviously still a little over week left in enrollment just how your - you know what kind of forecast you are expecting for total enrollment I assume you are trying to - you assume there is a big jump in the last week or two but just how we should think about that you know 700 000 related to expectation last two weeks? Thank you.
Dan? Sure good morning Andy.
So on the exchange enrollment specifically the 700 000 as Dave mentioned beginning January we ended the year with just about 500 000 so that jumped up to about 700 000 as of one-one.
We’d expect that over the balance of the open enrollment period to grow something underneath about - to about 800 000 something a little sound of that.
And then we would expect that to where off as you pace through the year as those members trade out.
In terms of the where it’s coming from I would tell you that the net growth in coming with a greater orientation toward those new states as well as expansion areas but a little bit of mix of both.
Thanks.
Okay next question please.
Our next question comes from Chris Ray with Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Just on the last question I got a little confused with the numbers Dan just on the 800 000 versus 700 000 500 000 ending the year and 650ish thousand now can you just confirm did you end the year 650 000 or was it 500 000? And then my real question with regard to all of this do you know how many the people that have currently signed up were enrolled with you guys last year versus new membership? Thanks a lot.
Sure.
So just to be clear we ended - we ended the year with 650 000 lives in individual exchange compliant offerings inside of that 500 000 of them were on exchange.
So the balance 150 000 was off exchange.
And then as we step into January that exchange component which ended the year about 500 grows to about 700 and then as you move towards the end of the open enrollment period it grows further up towards 800 000 something sound of that and then works it straight down over the year.
The off exchange is more level than what we experience in the on exchange.
And then to your last question about mix of enrollment more than half of the enrollment is new to us and a little less than half of the enrollment is existing enrollment base.
Right thanks a lot.
Thank you next please.
And we’ll go next to A.J.
Rice with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi everybody.
Just might ask focus my question on Medicaid both do you update your membership with one player dropping out and eye was had enough move the needle I guess we’ve had some companies comment on concern about profitability in Medicaid year-to-year can you give us a play over there? And then finally on that the health insure the question for 2017 if you got an clarity from CMS where as it relates to either Medicaid or Medicare and how they are going to treat that those dates I guess? That is quite an impressive single question A.J.
so we’ll break that up into pieces and we’ll start with Austin on Medicaid.
Sure.
So hey A.J.
this is Austin how are you? Good.
Right so first of all I think you’re asking about Iowa.
We did increase our membership outlook and assumptions for Iowa as the state moves from four players to three.
As far as the sustainability the program I think first of all as we state of four we are really honored to been selected to serve the people of Iowa.
We continued to be - feel good about the relationship that we develop at the state.
We’re in very productive conversation with them about really tried in true methods to ensure long term stability.
And so we feel good about where that’s headed and it will become a long term and very durable part of our portfolio.
And with regard to the rates overall as you know states are always pressured there is nothing new in that.
I think we are very pleased with our business most pleased with the value that we’ve been able bring the customers into the consumer over the years.
We’ve got a very strong management team very locally deployed enable to manage these populations and really help people in very vulnerable situations and then deliver value for the long term.
So I think we feel good about pressured but stable rate environment and the growth in this market.
And that’s been really distinctive in terms of the rate environments the same pressures that exist every year.
Absolutely yeah.
Dan? Sure.
A.J.
it’s Dan Schumacher.
On the health insurers tax you know we miss if I didn’t mention that from our perspective obviously the tax just increases the underlying cost of healthcare and as a result makes healthcare less affordable.
So as we look at the elimination of it for 2017 we are certainly encouraged by that and frankly we’ve been long support you know that’s permanent repeal.
Now with that said I’ll tell you in terms of the impact in Medicaid we expected to be no impact.
In the commercial business because that’s prices on a policy year basis and the tax is living on a calendar year basis.
There is no impact over three years but there are some differences by year and we expect it actually be a drag on our 2016 earnings.
We’ve estimated that impact to be about a $100 million pretax or about $0.06 earnings per share.
And then lastly the Medicare of business the tax has not been part of the rate setting process previously so we wouldn’t expect it to be for 2017 either.
Okay.
That pressure is covered in our guidance.
We basically observe that in our guidance given the strength of the start of the year.
Next question please.
We’ll go next to Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Great thanks.
Just go back to the exchanges.
I guess if we shift the premium does it from 2015 as of 2016 are you saying that you expect to lose more money on exchanges in 2016 than either in 2015 and if so why would that be the case I guess you had a chance to price up the core business? Well I’ll have Dan answer this but I think as a matter of prudence what we are doing is making sure that we have covered ourselves appropriately in ‘16 so that means we set aside more money between the reserve that have set aside and what we have covered it within our guidance that it’s clearly out purpose.
We are really focused on making sure that this item is really covered at ‘16 and so I think that’s what you should read through in terms of our activity.
Dan? Sure.
Good morning Kevin.
So if you move the premium deficiency reserve and reset the years and look at it you know on the individual exchange compliant plans within ‘15 we launched about $475 million on the ‘15 policy year.
And the ‘16 policy year as Dave Wichmann had mentioned we’ll lose more than $500 million.
So and we’ve got about a 10% increase in the loss assumption balance against about a 25% to 30% growth assumption in the underlying enrollment base.
And the reason that we’re able to do that is to the points that you mentioned obviously we came in with very strong pricing you know that mid-double-digits.
And further we’ve made some strong refinements to our product portfolio those are the largest contributors.
But beyond that we’re also working every single data the tuner operating environment as well as focus our clinical interventions in our network orientation around this population.
I guess you are saying is the loss of be in - and then you mentioned like path that goes to be new states and new geographies is that - is that why that the losses is that why have loss is really at all going up or do you think that the core business is actually getting get worse as well? No I think it’s going up because we got enrollment growth and then balanced against that is our pricing our product positioning our clinical interventions our operating environment and then improvements we’re making there.
And I might point out that this is what we are providing we are being careful in terms of making sure that we’ve covered this off.
These are not losses that we are sustaining these are but we have protected ourselves against in terms of ‘16.
Okay thanks.
And we’ll take the next question from Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
Thanks for the question.
Previously you said that you are expecting $0.13 to $0.15 or 200 to 225 million of additional losses from the exchange business in 2016 it seems like that grew a little bit and you talked about over half a billion now in losses including the $245 million PDR.
But my question gets to you know if that’s the right number the $0.13 to $0.15 and maybe correct me if I am wrong that would be you know say $0.14 at the midpoint added to your the midpoint of your 760 to 780 guidance so let’s call that $7.84 of potential earnings that’s only 12% growth from the $7 number that you have excluding those the individual business item yet last year you grew 16% to get to that $7 in terms of earnings which of your core businesses is the one responsible for the slowdown from 16% to 12%? Well you know Peter those are projected numbers.
We would think that we could perform even more strongly.
So I think that by just isolating that against a beginning of the year range may not be a fair comparison in comparing your 16 to 12.
Actually as we take a look across our spectrum of businesses we really don’t see any of these businesses in a position that they are actually I would say they are all stronger than they were as we - compared to this time last year as we entered clearly across the board in Optum.
The strength of the portfolio from one end to the other has advanced.
And in terms of UnitedHealthcare I think all those businesses have strengthen the - and I think are positioning on the exchange has strengthen.
So I think my view on this is that is a pretty positive outlook.
The 15% you are telling the difference between the 16% and the 12% then it’s PPD but perhaps is that what you would say? No I am not sure you can it might be - take that one element and then project against estimated earnings range as we go out we could be even stronger than that.
Okay.
Next question please.
We’ll take our next question from Gary Taylor with JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
This is question for Larry I think.
When we look at Optum inside operating income was up a $200 million sequentially same case last year was up about a $100 million sequentially in the four quarter.
Can you just remind us the source of the seasonality in the operating income for OptumInsight please? Sure.
I think we’ll Larry kind of give you some sense of the growth of momentum there and then respond to that specific question.
Garry it’s Larry.
I think that you’ve seen over the last few years that the fourth quarter is obviously a dominant quarter for us that will stay that way.
If I had to break it down I’ll give you three areas to think about.
Lot of time since beginning of the year we’re making investments and those investments payoff in the fourth quarter and you see a little bit of that happening we’re also in implementation mode they are in the year and those implementation then installations also come true in the four quarter and that enables us to obviously have a stronger position at that point.
When you look at the products and services there are specific products like obviously distribution that goes along with open enrolment but also our pay for performance and incentives will also hit in the fourth quarter.
So we don’t see that changing we see that being the pattern that Optum in general will be experiencing.
Okay thank you.
Next question please.
We’ll go next to Christine Arnold with Cowen.
Thank you.
Impressive increase in backlog for OptumInsight can you remind us if you gave us some parameters Investor Day how to translate that into expected revenue overtime? Thanks.
Sure.
Christine it’s John Rex good morning.
Yeah when you thing about the backlog $10.4 billion backlog you’ve seen inside some of the guidance points that we provided on that.
You should expect about 60% of that to be recognized in the 2016 revenues so that equates about 80% of the full year revenue outlook.
Another way to look at that is that the average duration of the backlog runs about 20 months.
And these are being fairly consistent numbers and I expect that could be fairly consistent as you look ahead also.
So Christine it’s Larry.
One think I would add to what John said is that as of now about 90% of our 2016 revenue is locked in obviously that’s part of the backlog.
Okay perfect thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Sarah James with Wedbush Securities.
Thank you.
I just have one quick follow-up here before my question is so you’d mentioned earlier that there are conversations with States Medicaid rates are tried in true methods that insurance stability is that mean I am wondering this is referencing changes in the risk adjustment methodology that can redo some premium get backs or are you talking about our aspects of tried in two methods? So this is Austin.
Really I was talking about a whole portfolio of method so you can think about care coordination network management the level of transparency that we address the rates and immerging experience overtime with States.
And so you could narrow it down any one we get a very long term history of 20 and 30 year relationship so a lot of success in how we work with States and so that’s what let us to feel so confident and comfortable with where we do with Iowa and really with our whole portfolio States.
Got it.
And just I know some of your peers are trying to get those risk adjustment seems back is that was an indication that United where those well but it sounds like based on other aspects that you are negotiating right? Yeah I wouldn’t comment any further in - any further detail about the specifics of any conversation with any State.
Got it.
Then in the past you’ve talked about opportunities for growth on Medicaid outside RFP cycle like States assigning our PSS or covering in other products do you still see that as a possibility and is there anything near term? So let me comment on the pipeline overall which I think is very strong.
You know States continue to move and look to managed care as solutions for their healthcare needs and that movement continues as States have really embraced this.
I think that activity in fact I think we expect to respond to over 20 RFPs this year that will be implemented in ‘16 ‘17 and on into ‘18.
So again when I say the pipeline is strong it’s very strong.
That’s heavily weighted towards more complex population so that’s really what you are talking about when you speak to LTSS and the movement of those complex populations from fee for service and to managed Medicaid we’ve got one of the largest books business in that space we’ve got a very long history at dealing with these very vulnerable people and delivering real value to those individual so - as well as value to the States.
So I think we feel and Dave mentioned it in the opening comments I think uniquely positioned between UnitedHealthcare and Optum to really serve these populations and help them live healthier lives year-over-year and deliver value back to the States and the process.
So I think our outlook for that continued movement even within States where we’re already providing traditional tenant population managed care to continue grew into those complex populations.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question please.
We’ll go next to Sheryl Skolnick with Mizuho U.S.A.
Thanks so much.
First let me step back I mean against the backdrop of a somewhat challenging situation that exchanges let me in this stand fall complement everyone from UHC to Optum to senior management the way you performed and handled during 2015.
I am impressed by especially the fact that somewhere I sit that privacy made with the cost structure as well as positioning the business.
I remember United having a better cost structure better positioning going into a growth year in a very long time if ever than you’ve go now.
So let me ask a question about one of those things that interesting to me that you performed well on which is the cash flow.
It’s I guess multi part one why the strength; two does this change in anyway your thoughts around share repurchases versus deleveraging versus investments in the business for 2016; and three you know if you are going to - it seems like 2016 guidance is perhaps a little bit more conservative it’s not a little modest on the cash flow and I was just wondering what you think might change? Dave will touch on beginning of that and then we’ll get into the share buyback invest et cetera as part two.
Thank you Sheryl.
First thank you for the recognition of the hard work this team has done this year particularly in the last half of the year to get this cost structures aligned and to really position its business for growth in 2016 and beyond.
Our cash flows were exceptionally strong I think you know from past calls and discussions that we’ve had we’re very very very focused on cash flows and in particular managing balance sheet elements of our business and the strength of the cash flows are the departure from what our original expectations where really around collecting receivables more quickly and paying claims more in line with what our contractual requirements are as opposed to paying it early.
So just better working capital management and really contributed to that.
As it relates to within what our priorities are for that is around share repurchases deleveraging and investment we are going to continue to maintain a very balance posture with respect to those things.
Obviously it’s important that we continue to deliver the business as we had indicated that we would over the course of 18 months following the Catamaran transaction and we continue to be committed to doing so.
Part of that is that our expectations that will continue to curtail our share repurchases at least for 2016 you know less extreme circumstances arise but for 2016 to about $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion in cash use.
And as you can probably suspect by the activity that’s underway in our business we continue to be a strong investor and new capabilities organically in our business but also through quested means.
As it relates to 2016 and the cash flow it’s certain jumping off about $9.7 billion cash flow year with stronger earnings expectations for 2016 you would expect would achieve higher cash flows.
And as a result we used language of $9.5 to $10 billion in cash flows are now taking closer to $10 billion.
And we’ll take a hard look at that over the course of the first quarter and reassess whether not we can push that number forward.
But clearly the business is operating well from the balance sheet management perspective we’ll do all we can do to move that the cash flow number forward.
Excellent thank you so much.
Next question please.
We’ll go next to Scott Fidel with Credit Suisse.
Thanks.
I just had a one follow-up first on the exchanges.
At the Investor Day I know you talked about assuming around negative a 15% margin in the exchanges just as you work through sort of the updated math is is that still how we should be thinking about that or sort of different relative to that number? And then just a follow-up question just interested outside of the exchange just on the membership front how membership ended up developing for the rest of the commercial risk business for the 2016 enrollment period most notably in the small group segment? Thanks.
Sure.
We’ll let Dan comment on the first on the first and then Jeff also kind of speak to the business in ‘16.
Good morning Scott.
So where we landed on a policy year basis as we closed our 2014 our policy year losses on the exchanges were in that mid-double-digit rate mid-teens range that we talked about in the Investor Conference so 15% 16%.
And if you look at 2016 on a policy year basis we expect that to moderate some we’d be into the low-double digits from a margin percentage basis with higher enrollment base lower percentage margin losses again on those things that I talked about earlier so the strength of our pricing the repositioning of our product portfolio and then our management efforts underneath that.
So hopefully that provide the sense for what you are looking for and then Jeff on the enrollment.
Sure.
Good morning Scott.
This is Jeff Alter.
So we closed out ‘15 with very strong growth across both our fully insured and sub-funded product.
I would say driving a good part of that was increase retention of our existing clients in certain markets we saw the market come back to our pricing particularly in small group.
We also had the opportunity to win back a very large part of the health republic small group block in New York in our rates.
And as you recall from early ‘14 one of our headwinds was that health republic pricing against our small group block in New York so we were in position to win that back during the four quarter of ‘15 which is good.
We also couple with very strong specialty sales our vision in dental products are selling really well.
And I think it plays to sort of our value in the market place our strong brand our consisting pricing and the ability for the folks to take advantage of our you know increasing innovation in the market place the service that we deliver and our efforts to make the healthcare system a little simple for our members.
So we’re encouraged by the growth that we had over the last 18 months we see that momentum continuing as we paced into ‘16 and feel good about what that will deliver in ‘16 and ‘16 and beyond for our shareholders and our members.
Okay thanks.
Pretty positive and so many we’ll just take two more questions and then as you know John and Brett will available through the course of the day for the - for questions and any other areas of interest.
So maybe two more questions please.
And we can take our first question from Ralph Jacoby with Citi Group.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Just want to go back to cash flow again seemed even stronger than usual.
Are you holding back claims at all with ICD10 implementation and maybe just generally speaking are you seeing any impact at this point from sort of coding in a QD perspective relative to your expectations? Thanks.
Not at all but I’ll let Dave handle that and others who want to comment on coding.
But that - those are not issues at all.
Dave? I am sure what to add to that.
Not at all those are not issues at all.
No this is just purely really more refined cash flow management principals across the company.
The enterprise is doing well and really managing cash flows.
Obviously the performance of the business stands exchanges is strong and then we coupled out with the balance sheet management.
We are not holding claims or doing anything other than paying them in accordance with contractual terms it’s part of the value that comes from more integrated UnitedHealth Group then what we’ve experienced in the past with more fragmented healthcare platforms or claims education platforms as we continue to move towards a common set of technologies working more closely with Optum and UnitedHealthcare we’re seeing the benefits of strong cash flow.
And on in terms of ICD10 maybe we’ll go real quick to UnitedHealthcare as it relates to them and then flip to Optum and talk about more broadly the industry and what we are seeing.
Sure.
Ralph it’s Dan Schumacher.
From an ICD10 standpoint there is really nothing to update from the Investor Conference and my comments there the reality is we are paying tens of millions of claims in the ICD10 that code set.
And as you look inbound volumes rejection rates auto adjudication rates throughputs ending inventory all the way through that process stream I would tell you all of that is in line.
And so there is nothing getting hung up nothing getting slow down.
In today’s point really around the cash flow it really comes down to just managing better to contract terms as well have more of our business on common platforms which allows us to do those kinds of offsets.
In terms of OptumInsight sure I always - we believe we have an extremely strong product line that were offering that’s increasing productivity and results and I’ll ask John Prince to comment on that.
I think Ralph in terms of ICD10 we’ve been backed within that and preparing ICD10 for years.
In terms of working for our customers we’ve actually had great results.
One of the products that have the results of that compares to the coding we’ve actually had a very distinctive product in the market and the customers have used have actually have seen a significant increase in production versus traditional products to the market.
Thanks you so one last question please.
And we’ll take that question from Ana Gupte with Leerink Partners.
Yes thanks good morning.
I wanted to follow-up on Peter’s question and your response around.
What I thought I heard this was upside to your guidance for 2016 and I am just looking at although the things that have developed we’ve got a week through season you pull forward even more losses from exchange in Medicaid pricing looks pretty good your reason stays stable have gone year-over-year by three days your star membership rebalancing looks good as well and special enrolment period is maybe a tailwind are there any headwinds are missing or should we think that there could be a upside to your consolidated carry show in your margins that’s your projecting to ‘16? Well that is an excellent list I am not sure I could have done better myself.
You know I just think it is the 19<sup>th</sup> of January I think we should be careful in terms of how we discussing our results we have to truly work through the balance of our exchange we do think we have reserve for it and consider that appropriately into our ‘16 numbers.
And as I said it’s the 19<sup>th</sup> of January and I think that we should you know more forward thoughtfully and prudently in our business.
So I think those are the factors.
In terms of headwinds I think we said before we have less than before but we clearly have to play out the year and that’s what we intend to do.
I think our focus is to really deliver a very clean strong financial year to the market place to continue advance our business continue to innovate you know continue diversify across both the platform of UnitedHealthcare and Optum and kind of that’s our focus.
I think we are always endower to try to perform better but I think our guidance right now is very appropriate range and I am assuming you’ve taken some of the input in terms of how the quarters might play out from our commentary in our teleconference.
So I think we’ll end up with that.
And once again I’ll thank you joining us today and I’ll leave with few closing thoughts kind of as businesses Optum and UnitedHealthcare we think really advanced their capabilities significantly in 2015 and UnitedHealth Group’s revenues and operating earnings grew significantly as cash flows increased as we talked about over 20% and our dividend has increased and we will certainly address that in the middle of the year as our custom.
UnitedHealthcare served more than 1.7 million people domestically growing virtually in every market that we serve and Optum grew its revenues by 42% and its backlog by more than 20%.
In 2016 we expect to continue and accelerate this grow trend and carried into 2017 and beyond.
We intend to further differentiate our products our services by focusing on consistently high quality in everything we do and creating real value for customers and consumers on their terms.
We remained committed to delivering clean strong financial result as I said for our shareholders this year with a growing pipeline of future opportunities.
So we appreciate your interest today.
This concludes our call and as I said John and Brett will be available through the course of the day.
We thank you for your attention.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s program.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.