Good day and welcome to the Unum Group First Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you operator and good morning everyone and welcome to the first quarter 2011 analyst and investor call for Unum Group.
Our remarks this morning will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from the results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the SEC and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2010.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website at www.unum.com.
I also remind you that the statements in today’s call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today’s presentation can be found on our website also in the Investors section.
Participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen President and CEO; and Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; and also our Business Segment Presidents Kevin McCarthy Randy Horn and Jack McGarry.
And now I'll turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Tom? Thank you Tom and good morning.
Our first quarter results were a good solid start to 2011 and are in line with our expectations.
We continue to see generally stable risk experience particularly in Unum US but also in Unum UK and Colonial Life where we've seen some volatility in past quarters.
Now Rick and Tom will talk in greater depth about our results for the quarter but before they do let me just touch on a few highlights that I think are noteworthy.
First we have continued to report modest earnings per share growth in part driven by our continued improvement in Unum US earnings as well as we also continue to benefit from our share repurchase programs.
Second we continue to maintain a very strong capital position driven by our solid operating results and strong investment performance.
Our weighted average risk-based capital ratio ended the first quarter at approximately 395% and our holding company's cash and marketable securities position is over $800 million.
Third we are growing in most of our target markets.
Unum US operation showed a 10% growth in new sales this quarter with a 10% growth in voluntary benefits 7% growth in Group LTD and 8% in Group Life.
At Colonial we continue to see modest growth in our core commercial markets which remains the sweet spot for Colonial with pressures certainly continuing to come from our sales in the public sector and the large-case marketplace which we expect to continue to be choppy.
As we expected given the pricing actions we're taking in the U.K.
market sales were down in the Unum UK but we continue to have a very positive outlook about that marketplace.
I might add that we have not seen any material change in the economic or competitive environment.
We fully expect the environment obviously to improve at some point but until it does we remain committed to maintaining a disciplined strategy that has served us so well over the last several years.
Fourth our investment portfolio remains in excellent shape with strong credit quality and generally stable portfolio yield.
As you know our current Chief Investment Officer David Fussell has been trying to retire for some time and we are pleased that his replacement Breege Farrell has joined the company as our Chief Investment Officer.
We look forward to the contributions that Breege will be making with our already strong investment team.
Next as I mentioned early we continue to aggressively repurchase stock with a total of $224 million repurchased this quarter and $580 million repurchased over the past 12 months or about 8% of our outstanding shares.
Our capital strength and flexibility remains a significant asset.
The last point I wanted to make before turning things over to Tom is that the consistency we are experiencing in our results today is no accident but the result of a several-year process to reinvent the company.
Our strategy is grounded on maintaining a disciplined approach to the market with a focus on profitability not just top line growth.
As a result of our more disciplined targeted efforts we have shifted our business mix to a better balance of core markets versus large-case businesses and a better spread of business including a greater portion of our business coming from non-Disability lines.
We have therefore not experienced the volatility that some others have had and we remain committed to following this more disciplined and measured approach to the business.
Now I'll ask Tom White to provide an overview of our operating results.
Tom? Great.
Thanks Tom.
Net income for the first quarter was $225.4 million or $0.72 per diluted common share compared to net income of $229.8 million or $0.69 per diluted common share last year.
Included in the results for the first quarter of 2011 our net realized after-tax investment gains of $9.7 million or $0.03 per diluted common share compared to net realized after-tax investment gains of $16.5 million or $0.05 per diluted common share in the first quarter of 2010.
Also included in the results for the first quarter of 2010 is a tax charge of $10.2 million or $0.03 per diluted common share related to the change in tax treatment of the Medicare subsidy for retiree health benefit plans.
Net realized after-tax investment gains for the first quarter of 2011 include an after-tax gain of $9.1 million resulting from changes in the fair value of an embedded derivative in a modified coinsurance contract compared to an after-tax gain of $11.9 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Also included in net realized after-tax investment gains for the first quarter this year are net realized after-tax investment gains of $600 000 related to sales and write-downs of investments compared to net after-tax gains of $4.6 million in the year-ago quarter.
So excluding these items after-tax operating income was $215.7 million or $0.69 per diluted common share compared to $223.5 million or $0.67 per diluted common share in the year-ago quarter.
Turning to the operating segments.
In total Unum US operating income increased 5% to $209.1 million in the first quarter.
Within Unum US the Group Disability line reported another solid quarter from a risk perspective though operating income declined 3% to $73.5 million as net investment income declined primarily due to a decrease in the level of assets supporting this line of business.
Within the Group Life and AD&amp;D line operating income increased 3.1% to $52.8 million in the first quarter with higher revenues offsetting a slight uptick in the benefit ratio.
In the Supplemental and Voluntary line first quarter income increased 14.7% to $82.8 million.
The year-over-year improvement was driven primarily by a strong rebound in earnings from the Voluntary Benefits business line which more than offset small declines in income from the recently issued Individual Disability line and the Long Term Care line.
Moving to Unum UK operating income in this segment decreased 19.6% to $48.7 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Operating income declined 21.9% in local currency.
While premium income and local currency was down 1.8% in the first quarter the benefit ratio was higher at 69.3% compared to 63.1% reflecting the impact of higher inflation on claim reserves associated with policies containing an inflation linked benefit increase feature a lower level of claim resolutions in Group LTD and lower premium income.
And these items offset favorable Group LTD claim incidents relative to the year-ago quarter.
Concluding our core operations Colonial Life experienced a 5.5% decline in operating income compared to last year as premium income growth of 5.8% was offset by a higher benefit ratio.
The Individual Disability Closed Block operating income was $9.9 million first quarter of 2011 compared to $11.7 million in the year-ago quarter.
The interest adjusted loss ratio was slightly higher at 84.7% this quarter compared to 84.5% in the year-ago quarter.
This was driven primarily by lower premium income which declined 5.5% due to the expected runoff of the Closed Block.
Net investment income declined 4.6% due to a lower level of bond call premiums and a decrease in the level of assets.
And finally the Corporate and Other segment reported an operating loss of $21.7 million compared to a loss of $8.9 million in the year-ago quarter.
Interest expense increased to $34.9 million this quarter compared to $30.3 million in the year-ago quarter reflecting the debt issuance from September of 2010.
During the first quarter we paid off debt maturity $225 million of our 7.65% senior notes which were due March of 2011.
This will result in a lower interest expense going forward.
In addition net investment income in the Corporate and Other segment was lower driven primarily by lower income from private equity partnerships and our investments in low income housing tax credit partnerships.
Our increased activity and tax credit partnerships over the past year contributed to a lower income tax rate in the first quarter compared to a year ago.
So with that overview of the operating results I'll turn the call over to Rick McKenney for further analysis of this quarter's results.
Great.
Thank you Tom.
A few topics on the quarter which continues with our theme of stability.
The areas I'm going to cover are the key profitability drivers for our business lines a snapshot of our investment portfolio and an update on our capital position and actions.
Starting with a risk experience for our primary business lines in Unum US risk experience remain generally stable again this quarter.
Our Group Disability performance remains favorable with a benefit ratio declining slightly this quarter to just under 84% which is down from the 84.2% we saw in the first quarter of last year and down sequentially from the fourth quarter.
New claim incidents continue to show some volatility but was down slightly on a sequential basis relative to the fourth quarter and it remains within a range of experience we've seen over the past several quarters.
Claim recovery experience remains favorable in the first quarter.
We have no reason to believe this will change and we'll look for similarly consistent levels in the Group Disability benefit ratio in the future and longer-term improvement in profitability will be driven from business mix shift to more core market and Voluntary Benefits.
For the Group Life and AD&amp;D line results were generally stable with a slight uptick in mortality experience producing a benefit ratio of 70% which is consistent with the year-ago quarter.
Looking to the Supplementary and Voluntary line Voluntary Benefit earnings were strongly up this quarter with favorable risk experience especially in the Disability and Life lines of business.
Premium income in this line was also quite strong growing 11.2% year-over-year.
The loss ratio in the recently issued Individual Disability line was slightly higher than the level of last year but risk experience remained relatively stable.
And finally Long-term Care loss ratios were up year-over-year but consistent with the fourth quarter.
We continue to make good progress on the Individual Long-term Care rate increases that we began to file in the fourth quarter of last year and we filed in 46 states and the District of Columbia.
So far we have almost received 90% approval out of the 26 states that have reached a decision and we continue to work with the remaining states.
The additional premium from this rate increase will emerge over 2012 and 2013.
Moving to our Unum UK results.
We are pleased with the stability in the financial performance for this segment in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 though comparisons to the year-ago quarter show earnings that were substantially lower as we've been discussing for several quarters.
The benefit ratio for the first quarter was 69.3% down from 71.7% in the fourth quarter with favorable Group Long-term Disability claim incidents offsetting some higher Group Life mortality experience.
And finally on Colonial Life earnings and risk results for the first quarter were within our expected range particularly for the Accident Sickness and Disability line of business that produced adverse claims trends in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The benefit ratio of 51.4% this quarter included less favorable risk results in the Accident Sickness and Disability line due to a higher level of incurred claims as well as slightly unfavorable mortality experience in the Life line of business and remains within our expected range of 50% to 52% for this segment.
Looking at the Premium line first with Unum US new sales in the segment showed some positive momentum for us in the first quarter growing 10% in total with much of this growth coming from sales and new business to existing customers.
On a product line basis sales of Group Long-term Disability increased 7% and Group Life increased 8%.
Within these group lines our new case count sales were up 14% relative to last year with particular strength in the smaller case size portion of the market.
We continue to see strong new sales growth in the voluntary benefits marketplace with premium sales this quarter increasing 10% and new case count growth of 21%.
At Unum UK we continue to work to increase price in the U.K.
Group risk market and are pleased our persistency while lower than last year is holding up well relative to our expectations.
There is pressure on sales comparisons which are down 29% compared to the year-ago quarter in local currency.
This reflects the current competitive environment in the U.K.
in conjunction with our pricing actions.
In aggregate we're seeing greater stability in our premium income line which declined 1.8% to 104 million pounds in the first quarter.
We are pleased with the progress that Jack McGarry and his team are making and implementing several important operational initiatives including these programs related to renewals of existing in-force business.
And finally sales in the Colonial Life segment were softer this quarter declining 4% after several consecutive quarters of growth.
Breaking it down though we continue to see positive momentum in the core commercial market segments which are cases with less than 1 000 lines.
This area saw a 2% growth.
However sales were lower this quarter in 2 areas which can be more lumpy and that is the large case commercial market and the public sector market.
Our sales through existing accounts showed slight improvement compared to last year driven by favorable results from new sales into existing cases.
And importantly on the recruiting front our new rep contracts grew by 7% in the quarter.
Turning attention to the balance sheet in the investment portfolio we continue to see excellent results.
The credit profile of our investment portfolio remains strong with the net unrealized gain position in our fixed maturities securities portfolio at $3.3 billion at quarter end and our portfolio watch list showing no signs of deterioration in the first quarter.
You should also note that since the end of 2009 in aggregate we have booked a net gain in our results from the investment portfolio.
Although challenging the low interest rate environment continues to have only marginal impact on the company.
Our portfolio yields continue to hold up well with our aggregate portfolio yield of 6.69% down only 6 basis points over the past year.
The yields on the various investment portfolios back in our product lines also showed similar stability.
The yield net of our discount rate for Unum US Group LTD business remains in good shape at 97 basis points at March 31 and our discount rate is unchanged.
With these stable operating results book value per share continues to grow increasing 10% to $29.08 at March 31 2011.
And looking at our capital our statutory earnings started out the first quarter of 2011 in line with our expectations.
Net income on a statutory basis for our traditional U.S.
life insurance subsidiaries in the first quarter was $142 million.
This is a level consistent with our full year expectations that we believe will continue to drive strong growth in our capital position.
The weighted average risk-based capital ratio for our traditional U.S.
life companies was approximately 395% at quarter end toward the upper end of our target range for the year.
And holding company cash and marketable securities totaled $816 million.
During the first quarter we paid up $225 million of maturing debt and repurchased $224 million of our stock.
As Tom mentioned in the last year we have bought back roughly 8% of our shares and we have remaining share repurchase authorization of $921 million at quarter end.
And our leverage ratio finished the quarter at just under 21%.
Finally as we look forward and given consistent results we are confirming our previous outlook for 2011 which calls for operating earnings per share growth of 6% to 12%.
Now I'll turn it back to Tom for his closing comments.
Thanks Rick.
As I said in my opening remarks I'm pleased with our overall results for the quarter particularly the stable risk experience we saw across the company.
Economic and competitive conditions remain challenging but I believe that our strategy of focusing on consistent profitable growth is the right one for our company.
Our strong capital position and financial flexibility combined with our strong business model continue to position us well for the future.
Now this completes our formal comments and operator let's move to the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Darin Arita Deutsche Bank.
I have a question on the U.K.
I'm sorry.
We didn't catch the question.
[Technical difficulty] [Operator Instructions] We'll move to our next question from Mark Finkelstein Macquarie.
On the U.K.
sales were obviously challenged in the quarter.
Persistency levels came in a little bit.
And I guess what I'm interested in is I understand we want to be disciplined and profitability has gotten hurt over the last few quarters and we're trying to correct that which seems like the right answer.
But I guess I'm just curious about how do you think about whether we have the right pricing in place.
We've overshot a little bit.
Just give us thoughts on that please? Yes Mark.
That's a great question and I think as you know our company actually went through a very similar exercise with Unum US several years ago So we have a fair amount of experience thinking about how to go through a repricing exercise and keeping track of the right variables and metrics as we do so And maybe Jack I'll ask you just to respond specifically to what we're doing in the U.K.
and what you're seeing so far.
I mean clearly sales are challenged.
It continues to be a pretty intense competitive environment.
But the fact of the matter is the way that these things are rolling out are very close to what we planned on particularly around the persistency and renewal And I would remind you that kind of our historic persistency level has been in the high 80s rather than in the low 90s that we saw last year.
It was slightly below that as a result of the renewal actions.
But more importantly than that we're getting the right actions we are asking for.
We're clearly keeping the better performing cases.
The cases that we're losing would tend to be unprofitable cases for us.
And oftentimes in this environment we're losing them at rates that are below the rates we were charging on in-force.
So we're very encouraged about the margin improvement.
We're also encouraged about the fact that the renewal program as it's rolling out is demonstrating our ability to sell value.
We don't have to match the lowest rate in the marketplace to keep in-force business.
In fact we have a good margin there.
So we feel like we're pretty much on track.
It's very consistent with the experience we saw in the U.S.
when we renewed business there both from a persistency perspective but also from a kind of margin improvement perspective in the difference between the things we're keeping and the things we're losing.
So right now we're watching it very closely.
We're mindful of the impact on in-force premium but we feel pretty good about where we are.
So persistency is as you expected it to be with the rate increases? Yes.
Just on the U.S.
Group Long-term Disability if I look at the only data that we had is what you put in the back of the supplement regarding reserve roll forwards.
And this quarter was a really strong quarter for claim recovery patterns.
I think it's  the highest that you've had at least according to that chart as a ratio at the beginning appeared reserves in history basically with one quarter close.
I guess how sustainable is this level of claim recoveries? And I mean is essentially the claim recoveries just offsetting the higher incidence that we are seeing from the economy.
I mean can we expect this level of recoveries to continue I guess it's the question? Kevin can I ask you to take Mark's question? Sure.
It was an extraordinarily I think good quarter.
We've had rock solid recovery patterns now I think for I don't know 10 12 quarters in a row.
But this one was particularly strong I think both in terms of recovery count and also in the average size of reserves that were on those recoveries.
And then and to some extent that offset was...
incidence levels certainly were higher relative to last year's first quarter but lower relative to last year's third and fourth quarter and the average size of new submits was a little bit lower than we've been experiencing last year.
So to some extent within all that you've got some volatility particularly around average sizes of claims.
I think in terms of solid recovery performance I expect it to be sustainable.
I don't see any reason that that's going to change but it may not necessarily stay at the high level that we have in the first quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Darin Arita of Deutsche Bank.
Had one on the U.S.
In terms of the voluntary benefit ratio that's steadily declined over the past few years.
I was wondering if you can talk about what's driving this and how much lower it can go.
Kevin can you grab that one? I think it's operating sort of above what we expected to operate right in and around 50% or so.
That's a loss ratio.
It's been going down primarily because our growth rate in Accident and Disability and Critical Illness Voluntary lines have been growing faster than the growth rate in our Life and the Life portfolio is somewhat more mature therefore has a higher loss ratio.
So it's supposed to be driven by business mix.
The other I think factor is that we have raised prices slightly in Voluntary over the last several years on our portfolio and we continue to manage that business both in terms of participation rates and pricing and size mix et cetera in line with our strategy.
And then in terms of this business we are seeing the premium income growth start to accelerate again.
Where do we think the growth can go to here? On Voluntary? That's right.
The Supplementary and Voluntary business.
I think that in General we expect to outperform the marketplace.
In Voluntary we expect right around double-digit growth and sort of on the higher end of double-digit growth if you will sort of in the midteens.
I think it's the target level for us in terms of the Voluntary business since the economy recovers.
And we'll move to our next question from Colin Devine Citi.
I was wondering if I could touch on 3 things.
First with respect to Long-term Care perhaps if you could expand a little bit on the average rate increase you've received.
What that really means to premium then over the I guess if you like the next year? And what even more importantly it's going to mean that benefit ratio? So the first question there on Long-term Care.
Second with respect to the U.K.
maybe I missed it but I've got to say this is the first time that I've heard you acknowledge that you've got a pricing problem on the U.K.
book unless I misinterpreted what you said.
Except I thought both Jack Tom you referred to.
We've been through this in the U.S.
We're doing it again.
And if you do then have a pricing issue on that block maybe we can expand a little bit more on what you think the magnitude of that is.
And then finally I don't want to leave Randy out on Colonial with the benefit ratio early in the fourth quarter it wasn't just an aberration.
How long do you see this sort of elevated ratio continuing? Are we going to be at these levels for a while here or can you get it back down? I should ask Kevin to take your first question on Long-term Care.
Let me just work my way back with it.
I think the results of the rate increases will be largely stabilization in terms of the loss ratio.
There would be average size of the rate increases.
Our target level was in and around 25%.
On the approvals rate we've received so far it's south of that primarily driven by the fact that about half of the states have approved the rate increase in the 23%-ish kind of average range and half of them have only approved a partial rate increase in the maybe 10% to 12% range with the idea that we'd have to come back again for a second round.
So I think the premium as Rick said in his remarks will emerge more in 2012 2013 and sort of in the range of somewhere around $30 million by the time we're finished all the way through the rate increase actions.
If I could just PS at the U.K.
point actually Colin let me just be sure I'm clear.
We don't feel we have a problem in pricing like for example when I refer to the U.S.
Obviously the U.S.
had to go through a fairly significant amount of repricing because we had very low returns in that business.
And the situation we find in the U.K.
is actually we still have very strong returns.
It's just those returns have come down.
We want to take the actions necessary to bring them back up again so it's very -- maybe the process is somewhat similar but the starting point and ultimately the ending point in terms of the U.S.
versus U.K.
is very very different.
So Jack is always politely saying to me that don't give me too much grief when we have a 20% plus ROE business and you're talking about pricing actions because that's really what we're talking about is taking and improving the pricing and returns in a business which frankly already has some very good returns.
We just think they can be taken to a higher level.
And with that Jack maybe just sort of elaborate a little bit on just some of the things that we've been doing.
And I think you touched on this a little bit earlier but maybe just pick up on just one of my comments.
Yes.
We do have a 30% margin in the business.
I don't think the problem is with pricing levels as much as perhaps the direction prices were headed in the marketplace and the desire to stop and reverse that direction.
Actually I talked about this in fairly good level of detail at the Investor Relations meeting in November about the fact that we had reduced rates.
In 2009 the market had responded to that very aggressively.
Still left us with very healthy margins but had reduced rates across the marketplace pretty dramatically and we were just looking to reverse that.
We feel very comfortable with the level we're rating at now.
We feel very comfortable with the profitability of our business.
We feel comfortable that the profitability of that business will improve as a result of the rate actions that we are taking.
And so we still view this as an extremely high margin high return attractive market and one that has a huge opportunity for growth as well.
So I wouldn't label it a pricing problem so much as taking some management actions as the market leader to make sure that there isn't a pricing problem in the marketplace in the future.
Okay Jack and just to be clear so we can all relate as to what happened in the U.S.
right where you tactically shrunk the size of the book premiums came down.
What should we expect then really in the U.K.
as you go through this? The sort of decline we saw here in the first quarter more or relatively stable? I think we would expect fairly stable persistency as we move through the block.
Hopefully if the marketplace begins to harden somewhat that things will persistency could drift up in the second half of the year.
We expect to be completely through pricing actions over the next 2 years so we will have been through the entire block from that time and we would expect persistency to improve over that 2-year cycle.
And Colin unlike the U.S.
as you know there wasn't a big large case block for example like we had to tackle in the U.S.
which in effect there was big chunks of premiums that really had to exit the income statement.
That's not the same situation we find in the U.K.
Yes I know.
It's more than a lot of the tactics we're using are similar.
Some of the results in terms of keeping better business losing the worst running business the impact of persistency of the rate actions are similar but at a very different level and at a very different profitability level than the U.S.
And Colin if we could shift to your last question we have a sort of 2-part answer.
Maybe I'll just ask Rick to speak a little bit to the benefit ratio and then ask Randy just to speak to some of the operational trends and mix of business changes that have been going on in the sales activity.
But Rick on the benefit ratio? On the benefit ratio Colin you would have seen it has elevated from what were really some very low levels that we saw in 2009 2008.
So I think as we booked about 49.7% for last year in total we've gone up to 51.7% in the first quarter and our expectations for the full year will be in that 50% to 52% range really driven by mix and our expectations of how we price that book.
I would say that even with those benefit ratios we're generating very good margins in this book of business and very good ROEs.
And I'll turn it over to Randy to talk about more on the operational side.
And maybe just one second Rick.
When you mentioned the 52% or for Randy is that where you really see it stabilizing? It's not sort of trending back to the 55% 56% of 5 or 6 years ago? I would confirm that yes.
It's stabilizing at those levels.
Yes I definitely see stability in that 50% to 52% range.
I guess just adding to what Rick said in first quarter last year I think Rick gave the full year number.
We have a very low benefit ratio just north of 47%.
So starting out from a low level there you might recall we did see a pattern of increasing incurrals in the Accident Sickness and Disability segment over the course of 2010.
Just absolute higher incurrals for Accident and Sickness.
We did see an increase in incidence of disability claims over the course of 2010.
And then we reflected that through some reserve adjustments we took in the fourth quarter of last year.
But at this point we see things stabilizing very well.
Our disability incidence has actually dropped back down here in the first quarter of 2011.
We had a surgeon open life claims Colin in March but that really is just expected volatility.
We get in that line from time-to-time.
I don't see any kind of adverse trend or pattern there.
In fact we've seen that open claim level settle back down here so far in the second quarter.
So long story short yes we expect things to stabilize in that 50% to 52% range.
We've introduced some new products at the product mix shift that has helped drive us to that level.
But we think that will help us on the sales front but still maintain very healthy margins and stable benefit ratios going forward.
We'll move to our next question from Ed Spehar BOA Merrill Lynch.
I have a question on the U.K.
and I guess when I look at the U.K.
the difference from the U.S.
market for Unum I think is that your market share is about 50% I believe in the U.K.
So I thought you'd have more price leadership than what we seem could be seeing.
And I'm wondering is there any concern that this is an indication that the overall return expectation for the Unum UK market is potentially moving more toward the U.S.
level? Because as you highlighted this a very high ROE business.
Let me start and then I'll ask Jack to supplement.
I think Ed as you know and I think it was alluded to by Jack in one of his earlier comments we made some pricing decisions a couple of years ago where we had lowered prices and actually what happened is the market actually not just went to that level but went below it.
And we didn't really exhibit the kind of market leadership we should actually.
And as Jack mentioned really much of what we're doing right now is acting like a market leader.
And early indications are that we can be a market leader and continue to protect prices and protect returns.
But Jack again maybe you could fill in the gaps a little bit on that.
Yes I would agree with that Tom.
We are holding on to the cases having good persistency.
We continue to have not the sales level we are achieving last year but good sales level.
Most of our misses in fact in sales were in the Group Life side as opposed to the Group Income Protection side.
So I think we are demonstrating leadership.
The worst thing we could do for the market is chase share with price down because we'd end up with fulfilling that prophecy.
So we are going to exert some leadership.
We recognize that by us raising rates on our in-force block and having somewhat poorer persistency for a short period of time that's going to mean sales for some of our competitors.
Hopefully they will recognize that and begin to recognize that they can take the opportunity to grow and increase their pricing levels as well.
This is early days.
I mean we've been at it for a quarter now really through our January renewals.
The marketplace hasn't had time to react yet from a pricing perspective so we are very hopeful that during the second and third quarter they'll have that opportunity.
We're very optimistic about our ability to maintain.
In fact we are maintaining if not in fact we are improving margins as a result of our pricing actions.
We are improving returns and we also harken back to the huge opportunity that exist in the U.K.
with only 1 out of 10 people currently insured for group income protection in a social environment that's really going to be relying more on the private industry to provide protection.
So we're very optimistic about the market and our leadership position in it.
And my follow-up would be I understand you're exhibiting price leadership.
But if the market doesn't follow why wouldn't you go to the market.
Is there something about the risk profile of this business that you deem a 20% plus ROE to be necessary? Because I'm assuming that if you thought the risk profile was similar to the U.S.
market why wouldn't you accept the same level of returns if the market doesn't come to where you are especially considering that you're highlighting better growth opportunity in the U.K.
relative to the U.S.? Well I think a part of it because the market hasn't demonstrated that we need to go there.
I mean we're a 50% market share leader.
We're taking a little hit on persistency right now with the rate actions we're taking but well within our plan.
We're improving margins.
To drive the market to the U.S.
level of profitability to gain another couple of percent market share doesn't seem like a very good value proposition for us.
So as long as we can maintain our market share we can protect our margins.
We can get the returns we are getting and we can demonstrate that we don't need to be at the market to sell income protection because of our value proposition.
We can sell at a premium.
We're going to continue to do that.
I guess I'm not suggesting that you're going to be aggressive to gain 2 points a share.
I guess what I'm suggesting is if there's some fundamental shift in this market where if you don't follow everyone else's your share goes from 50% to 25%.
Is there some reason for you to require a 20% ROE for this business based on the risk profile of the Unum UK market versus the U.S.
market? Well first we see no evidence of that fundamental shift in the market.
That would -- in fact we see evidence much to the contrary in terms of what we're doing right now.
But no there's no risk profile in this market that requires that level of return.
It's the fact that the markets were able to achieve that level.
If I could just add to what Jack has said.
Again there really is no evidence there's any difference in the risk characteristics.
If you look at the basic fundamental actuarial sort of components underneath this in terms of incidence and claim and duration those sort of risk factors they're very very similar to what they are in the U.S.
So there's no fundamental underpinnings in the U.K.
that are all any different than what they are in the U.S.
I think what we're getting at is as a market leader we probably made a couple of fundamental mistakes a couple of years ago which is why we made the change in leadership where we were leading with price and we didn't need to lead with price.
As Jack mentioned we have a tremendous value proposition.
People truly respect the claim expertise we have in U.K.
the service we have in the U.K.
and it was a strategy change really.
Well rather than focus on just leading with price let's get back to delivering and leading with value which is frankly we find in the marketplace so far the market is prepared to pay for that value.
And in addition to that we do write at a higher margin than our competitors do.
These customers value that additional value proposition.
So I would say we probably erred a couple of years ago on choosing to get away from so-called selling value into selling price and that's why we're actually backtracking on that with the actions we've talked about here in the last 12 months.
We'll move to our next question from Jimmy Bhullar JPMorgan.
I had a question 1 just maybe if you could talk about competitive trends and just your sales outlook in the U.S.
disability market.
Obviously this quarter you're up 7% in Long-term Disability.
I think the last couple of quarters you were weak.
And then secondly related to that we've heard from a lot of companies saying that they're raising prices if you've seen that happen in the market.
And the other question that I had was just on the base of buybacks.
I think you did $224 million in the first quarter.
You've got $921 million remaining on your authorization.
I think that runs through sort of the first half of next year.
But should we expect you to take that long to use all of that upward? Would you be doing it faster? And just talk about the base of share buybacks.
Let me ask Kevin but let me speak to your first three questions which really deal with the competitive dynamic.
Well we've heard some companies talk about making price adjustments and I think we've seen some limited evidence.
But at the same time we see other companies that continue to be quite aggressive and so in general I would say there's not been a significant shift in the competitive environment.
We've been consistent with our value proposition.
Our prices actually in the marketplace were slightly higher at this time this year than they were last year so we're maintaining that kind of discipline and focus.
And then we continue to focus on growing in our core marketplace and in the less economically sensitive industry.
So in general we are focused on sort of delivering our value proposition our ability to market in the core market and packages with Voluntary Benefits and we are not worrying too much about the price levels right now and we're not seeing much difference.
Rick you want to pick up the question on share buybacks? Sure.
If you look at the first quarter the $224 million that we did if you take the remaining authorization of $921 million you'd see a similar level on average than we would continue to deploy over the authorization period.
However I would caution against that because we are going to be very opportunistic in terms of how we buy back stock.
So it's for modeling purposes the average is okay and how it actually comes out I think it will be quite different depending on market environment.
And by that you're just implying if you get a better price you'd buy more [indiscernible]? Yes.
We'll move to our next question from Jeffrey Schuman KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I'm going to ask the U.S.
question first and then I'll come back and get in my I guess mandatory U.K.
question.
But on the U.S.
just kind of a high-level question.
As we look a couple of years down the road to what we hope is a stronger economy better employment environment I think pretty straightforward there would be top line implications for you.
How should we think about kind of margin implications? Should we think of you as having better risk margins in that environment or maybe just realizing a little bit of operating leverage in a better growth environment or should we think about more kind of a stable margin expectation versus where we sit today? Kevin do you want to talk about that as it relates to the Unum US business? _ Yes.
I think as the economy recovers we get some job growth we get some wage growth as well.
The implications I think would be more significant on the top line in terms of growth of the business of rejuvenation of the sort of NBOC for example the additional benefits.
So overall profit levels increase as the top line increases.
As far as margins you might see a marginal improvement in profit margin but I wouldn't see a significantly different risk profile that we're managing through right now.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
So it's mostly top line opportunities.
I would say absolutely.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> On the U.K.
you made it a point several times that you got aggressive on pricing in 2009 and now you're trying to kind of address that.
But when I looked at a much longer picture particularly to the Disability business that it seems that there's a much longer trend that's hard not to be concerned about.
I mean if we look at disability sales in the U.K.
and assuming available local currency numbers are right you really only have a modest blip up in sales in 2009 3% sales growth.
Other than that sales peaked in 2004 and have declined quite steadily since then in many cases double digits.
Premiums disability premiums in the U.K.
constant currency I think it's 30% below where they were 3 years ago.
So it appears that there is a long-term trend of giving up disability share in the U.K.
That extends well beyond this period of sort of recent price adjustments.
How do we think about you stabilizing or even reversing that long-standing market share trend? Let me start and then I'm going to ask Jack to sort of pick up.
First I'm not sure of the numbers you're looking at Jeff.
But actually I don't believe we've actually lost market share in the last sort of 5 years.
Our biggest challenge frankly is that the market isn't growing.
I think Jack alluded to and he'll speak to I think a little bit more when I pass it to him.
But this is a market that's substantially under penetrated relative to the U.S.
for disability coverage roughly 10% let's say.
And that 10% penetration rate in the U.K.
has existed for decades.
So from a strategic point of view our biggest issue isn't trying to reshape how much of the pie we own of the existing pie because again it's roughly a 50% market share.
There's little upside for doing that and that's actually probably one of the things that led to couple of pricing things that we talked about earlier.
Our biggest focus is kind of building a stable foundation to take advantage of the business opportunities that exist today.
At the same time as Jack alluded to earlier recognizing the biggest leverage for us is expanding that market share from market size from where it is today.
So if you could take that 10% penetration to 15% or 20% that's where a lot of our focus is being spent.
It's being spent on working at the policy level with those that are setting policy in the U.K.
Government to all the way down to simplifying our product and service offering.
But again Jack you may want to speak to that because again I think we've been fortunate enough to maintain a pretty consistent market share with the market -- with the lack of market growth is really the issue that's constrained our growth and that's where much of the focus is right now.
Yes and actually Tom since 2002 I believe our market share went from 30% up to 50%.
A lot of that was the result of consolidation in the market.
Several key players exiting the market which we took over their blocks took over their in-force and got some of their sales from.
And so that's buffeted the sales but we've been steady at 50% market share for the last couple of years.
The growth in the market has been severely impacted by the economy in the U.K.
which took a big hit and has been impacted by pricing in the U.K.
as well.
The U.K.
overall sales in the marketplace are down and overall premium levels in the marketplace are down due to both the economy and pricing.
Our position is really solid and the value proposition we have is great.
And the opportunity we have been working with public policymakers.
We are looking on promotional campaign to raise awareness of the need for disability products in the U.K.
to U.K.
workers and we'll look to expand coverage.
I mean 1 out of 10 we have a group of in-force policy holders that are only insuring 1 out of 7 of their employees.
If they were in U.S.
they would be insuring 4 out of 7.
And so that's a tremendous opportunity that we're going to look to capitalize on over the next couple of years.
Our goal is to grow the market.
It's not to grow market share.
We'll go to our next question from Randy Binner FBR Capital Markets.
Just following up on some comments Tom White made earlier in the call and then it's apparent in the financials that that investment income is kind of trending down a bit as invested assets are a bit lower.
Just wondering if there's anything that can be done to try and enhance investment income through a borrowing or mashed activity.
We've seen some other life insurers do that.
Just wondering if that's something that could be in your playbook to help for your EPS growth goals.
Rick you want to take that one? Your suggestions we look at it.
But really our investment income will trend very much with our book of business.
Our assets are backing our liabilities.
We'll continue to invest consistently where we have done today on a good risk management basis.
We'll continue to put in our corporate bond.
Today's environment is a little bit tougher given where the credit spreads in the interest rate environment is.
But prior to the credit downturn et cetera we didn't reach for yield and we're not going to do that today as well as enhance those levels.
We're pretty happy with where our investment income and where our investment team have been investing.
We've grabbed some asset classes particularly in 2010 which were opportunistic and we feel very good about the credit quality of those assets.
And then in the Build America Bonds and in some tax advantage investments with very high credit quality with some good enhanced yields but there's not going to be any systematic programs to try and choose our deals with leverage or something like that.
Yes if I could add one thing Randy because we are a very large corporate bond buyer and corporate bond owner we will have miscellaneous investment income.
There are bonds that get called you get paid bond call premiums things like that.
Those are hard to predict they're volatile.
Over long periods of time it's generally pretty steady.
We know they're going to come in.
But by quarter and by product portfolio it's very hard to predict those.
And it really shows up when you look at the closed disability block.
Because you got a flat block of business and a general decline in the overall assets but we'll have volatility quarter-to-quarter because you'll get some bond calls one quarter and they won't be repeated the next quarter.
So I think that's just kind of inherent in having as large a corporate bond portfolio and private placement portfolio that we have.
Maybe time and again we run the risk of over answering but you may want to speak to the interest margin because again I think we tend to manage the portfolio for the interest margin actually interest margin continues to be very strong.
That's really the kind of the driver of our investment strategy is to have investments that are providing a predictable yield that support the liability discount rate assumptions that we have.
All of that is very helpful.
I guess just to follow-up then I mean there's an EPS guidance range that's percentage growth and it seems like the benefit ratio of Colonial might be a little bit higher.
These are all marginal things maybe a little bit lower persistency in the U.K.
this year.
If the investment income is just slightly lower than we may have otherwise thought is it possible for you to kind of quantify if we should think kind of the middle lower upper part of that guidance range and given what we know kind of at quarter end? No I'm not going to give you more guidance just range that we have out there already today from our outlook.
What I would say on the investment income line relative to your expectations it may be a little bit over given some of these tax advantage investments which will come out of the investment income line and moved to the tax line.
You would note our tax rate was about 2 percentage points lower than it was a year ago.
So a little bit geography going on there as well Randy.
No understood on that.
It's just it seems like the asset levels are lower but the responses are helpful.
We'll move to our next question from Eric Berg RBC Capital Markets.
Given all of the commentary around the success that you are enjoying in the U.K.
and sort of writing your business getting pricing right pricing leadership losing editing the line-up into a leading business that is sorely unprofitable help you reconcile that with the very significant year-over-year increase in the loss ratio.
Rick you want to take that one on the loss ratio in the U.K.? Yes.
So when you look actually at the year-over-year in the U.K.
there are a couple of things going on.
One is last year we were seeing very good results.
But you have to dig down underneath that there's some inflation that's happened over the course of that line and the premium income line has come down.
So that's something we talked about earlier which has driven up that loss ratio.
So although it's higher than it was a year ago quite a bit higher than it was a year ago it's within our line of expectation that we've seen over the last couple of quarters and how we talked about that book of business.
And in the U.S.
I just want to return to the earlier discussion about claims experience there.
I understand from your comments and from reading your news release that the claims incidence is let's see was better in the March quarter than it was in the December quarter but higher than the year-ago quarter.
What I'm interested in knowing is how does the incidence stack up relative to your expectations and in particular a number of your competitors have reported what they call elevated incidence which is a term that I interpret to mean "it's just not going in line with their expectations." Or irrespective of the -- putting aside the issue of comparison incidence versus December quarter incidence versus the year-ago quarter how is the incidence stacking up relative to your expectations? And are you facing the same sort of negative surprises in incidence that some of your peers are facing? Kevin do you want to tackle that one? On an actual-to-expected incidence basis we're performing right where we expect to be and are very consistent with our pricing assumption.
We've seen some volatility over the last year and a half in incidence.
Some ups and some downs but pretty much in a fairly narrow range this is both on a submitted and a paid incidence basis.
So we're not seeing elevated incidence in comparison to some of the others' comments.
As you know we manage our mix of business.
We've moved our mix of business sort of down-market if you will over the last several years.
And actual-to-expected incidence is performing very well particularly in the smaller end of our book of business which is a part of the business that's also growing the fastest in our core group business.
And we haven't really seen any volatility in claims by diagnosis or by industry.
In fact incidence has been even slightly improved or   basically flat across industry sectors.
We'll take our next question from Mark Hughes SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Could you share a natural growth number for the U.S.
business for this quarter? As we've talked about the natural growth for those of you we look at our natural growth in terms of the block of business and what's happening from wage inflation and more lives taken lives added to different cases.
What we've seen over the last couple of years 2 years ago was a negative 3%.
Last year was negative 1%.
Fourth quarter was pretty flat and I'd say we'd probably said the first quarter was pretty flat as well.
So we're looking forward to the economy recovering.
We haven't seen it actually coming through in some of those metrics that we look at.
Inc.</strong> And then your sales in the Group Long-term Disability up nicely this quarter.
Was there anything unusual any new initiatives in the marketing front or channel front that contributed to that kind of growth? Any reason that wouldn't be sustainable going forward? Mark no new initiatives at least specific to the quarter.
We've been steadily rolling out our Simply Unum platform the ability to package our products together for more efficiency on the benefit volume side for the employer stronger employee communication support for the employers and we have more and more brokers in the marketplace selling packages of LTD with Voluntary Benefits.
And I think all of those kinds of factors in the investments we've made strategically are paying off.
And I think that in general we should see solid core market growth coupled with strong Voluntary Benefits growth.
But I do think you'll see some volatility from quarter-to-quarter sort of within line.
I mean it won't always be LTDs up 7% and Life is up 5% or Life's up 8%.
It will bounce around a little bit depending on sort of what's out there in the marketplace in terms of good activity.
And our next question comes from Chris Giovanni Goldman Sachs.
I just wanted to focus on capital.
I guess first you've typically used the mid May sort of board meeting as an opportunity to increase the dividend 10% plus.
I just wanted to see if this was still the expectation again this year and does the emphasis on share repurchases that you started last May sort of mute the likelihood of this pace of dividend increase.
Rick you want to cover that? Certainly.
On the dividend I think you're right.
It is the topic of discussion with the board pretty consistently.
But May has over the last couple of years has been a decision point in time.
Given the capital position that we're in today I think those discussions are really on 2 different sides.
One is going to be the capital that we take out through recurring dividends that we see coming off our operating income.
We'll discuss that but it does not in any way impact the amount of capital we have available to ourselves for the share repurchase.
So I won't necessarily say that one excludes the other.
I would echo that Chris.
I think that we view both dividends and share buybacks as 2 sort of very necessary tools to put that excess capital to work and effectively do one versus another.
I think we look at those as both very important creators of value for our shareholders.
And then next just in terms of debt maturity.
You obviously just did the piece in March you're tying the $225 million.
So now you're looking out to 2015 before the next debt maturity of about $300 million.
And with the leverage ratio where you sit today sort of just below 21% is there any talk of potentially taking that up here in the near term? I wouldn't say that given what rate that we're running at that we would take it out for any specific opportunity that we would have out there to deploy debt and capital via the M&amp;A markets or anything else but you are right that as we look out over the next couple of years we'll see a natural deleveraging which we don't need to have.
We are at a very low leverage ratio today and so you'd probably see us be consistent right around that 20% level in the wake of not doing something else with debt.
And our final question comes from John Nadel Sterne Agee.
Just a couple of real quick ones.
Just to follow up a little bit on the January renewal season and pricing trends from I think an earlier question.
Just wondering if you dissect that a bit more and think about size plans small market mid market et cetera whether you'd see anything different happening in either or in any of those markets vis-à-vis the other and then the only other question I have that's left over is just to think about the tax advantaged investments that you guys have been making and had to think about what that does to your tax rate as we look forward tax equivalent yield that sort of thing.
Kevin do you want to speak to the renewal season? Yes.
I think it's been a pretty sort of uneventful kind of renewal season.
We went into renewals during the fourth quarter last year looking forward to the first quarter this year thinking that if prices in the market didn't harden that we might be under some pressure.
That hasn't for the most part really materialized.
I think we're feeling very successful with our renewal program or I think slightly ahead of plan relative to where we want to be right now.
And out to bid levels are actually lower at this time this year compared to the same time last year.
So I think we're feeling pretty successful about our renewal program right now.
Rick you want to take the tax advantage? Always good to have a tax question be the last.
When you look at our tax rate actually what saw in the quarter about 31.5% we'd see it probably a little bit higher than that just slightly higher than that over the course of the year from a planning perspective.
Specific to the investments we were very active last year on tax advantage investments.
We saw very good returns.
Those returns have come in quite a bit here over the last 6 months with a lot of other players who are out of that market are getting back into it.
So we'll still do some of those but not quite the rich yield that we saw and you'll see our tax rate to this day kind of fund in slightly higher but about the level I had said today.
So we're definitely seeing that sustainable at a lower level at least relative to the last couple of years.
Got it.
Well thanks John and thank you all for taking time to join us this morning.
And this will complete our first quarter 2011 earnings call.
That concludes our conference for today.
We thank you for your attendance.
Good day and welcome to the Unum Group Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you Tim.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the second quarter 2011 analyst and investor call for Unum Group.
Our remarks this morning will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2010 and in our subsequently filed Form 10-Q.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website at www.unum.com.
I remind you that the statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found on our website also in the Investors section.
Participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen President and CEO; and Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; and also our business segment presidents Kevin McCarthy for Unum U.S; Randy Horn for Colonial Life; and Jack McGarry for Unum  U.K.
And now I'll turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Thank you Tom and good morning.
The second quarter was another good quarter for Unum.
And before I turn things back over to Rick and Tom to cover more extensive remarks let me touch on just a few highlights I think I took -- I ask you to take away from the quarter.
First driven by slightly higher operating earnings in our core operating segment and a lower share count as a result of our share repurchase program we reported a 9% growth in our operating earnings per share for the quarter which I think is a very good result in this environment.
Second we continue to see modest growth in most of our target markets.
With as expected the majority of that coming from our U.S.
businesses.
Unum U.S.
posted 9% growth in new sales this quarter including 19% growth in group LTD sales and 12% growth in our Group Life and AD&amp;D sales.
While Unum U.S.
Voluntary Benefit sales declined by 14% this quarter we were up against a very tough comparison from the same quarter last year.
At Colonial new sales grew approximately 2% this past quarter following a slight decline in the first quarter.
The primary driver was stronger sales in the public sector which had been lagging a bit this year.
Not surprisingly sales in Unum U.K.
declined by 34% in local currency this quarter due to our pricing actions in that market.
We did however see an increase in sales to existing customers which is certainly a very good sign to our continued grip in that marketplace.
And as usual Kevin Randy and Jack are here to answer any questions you may have about their operations but also the market conditions in each of their markets in the Q&amp;A session.
Third despite the low-interest rate environment and the global economic concerns our investment portfolio remains in excellent shape with strong credit quality minimal realized investment losses and generally stable portfolio yields that serve to protect our reserve position.
While we would certainly like to see interest rates rise we are well-positioned if this trend continues.
Fourth is a result of our strong financial results and investment performance.
We continue to maintain a very solid capital position.
Our weighted-average risk-based capital ratio has 394% at quarter end and our holding company's cash and marketable securities position is over $925 million providing the company as you can imagine enormous financial flexibility.
And finally we continued our stock buyback activity with a total of $146 million of stock repurchase this quarter.
Over the past 5 quarters we have repurchased $726  million of stock and reduced our share count by 9% while this [ph] earlier also maintaining a very solid balance sheet.
In summary over the past several years we have built our business plan around a focus on discipline in all that we do: Trading growth for maintaining solid margin.
This is not surprisingly led to more consistent financial results that we produced over the last several years as well as a strong financial position we enjoy today.
We are certainly looking for opportunities for accelerated growth and in ROE expansion but we will continue to do so in a disciplined manner.
And now I'll turn things back over to Tom Watjen for his remarks Great thank you Tom.
Net income for the second quarter as you see was $229.8 million or $0.75 per diluted common share.
This compares to net income of $209.7 million or $0.63 per diluted common share last year.
Included in the results for the second quarter of 2011 our net realized after-tax investment losses of $2.2 million or less than $0.01 per diluted common share compared to net realized after-tax investment losses of $18.9 million or $0.06 per diluted common share in the second quarter of 2010.
Net realized after-tax investment losses for the second quarter 2011 included an after-tax loss of $3.1 million resulting from changes in the fair value of an embedded derivative in a modified co-insurance contract compared to an after-tax loss of $15.3 million in the second quarter of 2010.
So excluding these items after-tax operating income was $232 million for the quarter or $0.75 per diluted common share compared to $228.6 million or $0.69 per diluted common share in the year-ago quarter.
Turning to the operating segments Unum U.S.
operating income increased 1% to $218.1 million in the second quarter.
Within Unum U.S.
the Group Disability line reported another solid quarter from a risk perspective as Rick will describe.
So operating income declined 6.7% to $78.5 million as net investment income declined due primarily to a decrease in the level of assets supporting this line of business and also premium income declined by 2.6%.
Within the Group Life and AD&amp;D line operating income increased 3.3% to $53.2 million in the second quarter benefiting from slightly higher revenue and a stable benefit ratio.
In the supplemental and voluntary line our second quarter income increased 7.5% to $86.4 million.
The year-over-year improvement was driven primarily by strong results in the Voluntary Benefits business line as well as solid growth in the recently issued Individual Disability line the effects of which were more offset by a slight decline in income in the Long-term Care business.
Moving to Unum U.K.
operating income in this segment decreased 3.4% to $54.7 million in the second quarter.
Operating income declined 5.6% in local currency.
While premium income and local currency was up 5.2% in the second quarter the benefit ratio was higher at 69.8% compared to 66% reflecting the impact of higher inflation on claim reserves associated with policies containing an inflation linked benefit increase feature and a lower level of claim resolutions in Group LTD partially offset by favorable claim incidents also in Group LTD.
Concluding our core operations Colonial Life experienced a 1.8% increase in operating income compared to the year-ago quarter.
As premium income growth of 5.3% an unusually strong net investment income were partly offset by a higher benefit ratio.
The Individual Disability closed block operating income was $10.4 million in the second quarter 2011 compared to $12.4 million in the year-ago quarter.
This was driven primarily by lower premium income which declined 7.6% due to the expected runoff of the closed block.
Net investment income declined 3.7% due to a lower level of bond call premiums and a decrease in the level of assets.
The interest adjusted loss ratio was slightly lower at 84.3% this quarter compared to 85.4% in the year-ago quarter reflecting more favorable claim recovery trends this quarter.
And finally the Corporate and Other segment reported an operating loss of $16.8 million compared to a loss of $17.6 million in the year-ago quarter.
The improvement was driven by lower operating expenses including a decline in litigation expense partially offset by higher debt interest expense.
Interest expense increased to $32.3 million this quarter compared to $30.8 million in the second quarter of 2010.
In addition net investment income in the Corporate and Other segment was lower driven primarily by lower short-term interest rates and our investment in low income housing tax credit partnerships.
Our increased level of investment in tax credit partnerships over the past year contributed to the lower income tax rate for the second quarter compared to a year ago.
So with that brief overview on our operating results I'll turn the call over to Rick McKenney for further analysis of this quarter's results.
Thank you Tom.
The key theme for this quarter is going to be the consistency of our results.
I'll highlight this through the key profitability drivers for our business lines provide a snapshot of our investment portfolio and give you an update on our capital strategy.
I'll start with our risk experience for our primary lines of business beginning with Unum U.S.
Once again this quarter risk experience was generally stable.
Our group disability performance remained strong with the benefit ratio and a narrow band with the second quarter at 84.4% compared to 84.6% in the year-ago quarter 83.9% in the first quarter and 84.4% in the full year 2010.
Group Long-term Disability new claim incidents continues to show some volatility and was slightly higher in the second quarter compared to the first quarter but was slightly lower than what we experienced in the second half of 2010.
As with previous quarters our claim recovery experience remain solid.
We've not changed our expectations although we're carefully monitoring it and we expect the benefit ratio to remain within the range of results we've experienced over the past several quarters.
For the Group Life and AD&amp;D line results also remain generally stable with the benefit ratio at 70.3% for the second quarter flat with the year ago quarter and consistent with the 70% benefit ratio  the first quarter.
Looking through the supplemental and voluntary lines voluntary benefits earnings remain quite strong again in the second quarter with favorable risk experience continuing in the lifeline of business.
The loss ratio in the recently issued Individual Disability line was lower relative to last year's second quarter and generally stable with the first quarter results.
And finally long-term care loss ratios were up year-over-year and slightly higher compared to the first quarter driven by the continued buildup of active life reserves and a slight up tick in new claim incidents.
We continue to make good progress on the individual long-term care rate increases that we began to file in the fourth quarter of last year.
We have completed our filings of 47 states in the District of Columbia.
So far we've received rate increases approvals in 30 states.
As well we have achieved 84% of the requested rate increase in those states that have reached a decision and we continue to work with the remaining states.
The additional premium from this rate increase will emerge over 2012 and '13.
In the U.K.
we continue to see greater stability on our risk results.
While the benefit ratio is higher this quarter relative to a year ago it is generally stable with the levels over the previous 2 quarters of just under 70%.
The impact of higher inflation in the U.K.
has caused much of the increase in the benefit ratio on a year-over-year basis and in isolating on claims experience for Group Long-term Disability we have seen favorable claim incidents trends but some deterioration claim resolution experience.
Jack and his team are implementing many of the claims management processes that have served us well in the U.S.
and we believe that these practices will benefit our performance in the U.K.
over the long-term.
And finally on Colonial Life the benefit ratio for the second quarter remained within our expected range of 50% to 52%.
At 51.2% the benefit ratio is higher than a year ago but generally consistent with the experience of the past 2 quarters.
The accident sickness and disability line of business which produced adverse claim trends in the fourth quarter 2010 is stabilized over the first half of the year.
Turning to the top line new sales in Unum U.S.
continued to show some good momentum increasing 8.6% for the second quarter and 9.3% for the first half of the year.
Group LTD sales grew at 19% this quarter with better sales results coming from the core market where pricing appears to be firming somewhat as well as the healthy mix between core market and large case business.
Group Life and AD&amp;D also had solid results with sales up 11.8% driven by good growth trends in this core market.
Our sales in voluntary benefits declined 13.5% this quarter but I'll note that last year's second quarter was especially strong with heavier than normal large case activity pushing last year's growth rate over 50%.
Premium income in the voluntary benefits grew by 8% this quarter as we continue to see solid growth in this line.
We remain pleased with the underlying sales trends in our voluntary benefits business and the pipeline of activity we are seeing.
Overall however economic uncertainties in the U.S.
continue to dampen our top line growth trends and we continue to see essentially no benefit to our premium line from the natural lift to our business from a growing employment base.
At Unum U.K.
our emphasis remains on firming rates  in the group risk market and as a result new sales remain challenging.
But we're pleased the persistency is holding up well relative to our expectations.
Additionally we're seeing good up-sell trends as existing customers add to their coverage.
Premium income was encouraging this quarter at GBP 107.8 million an increase from both a year-ago and prior quarters.
Jack and his team continue to make good progress in implementing several important operational initiatives for a business that is already producing a 20% plus ROE.
Finally sales in Colonial Life regained some positive momentum after a soft first quarter.
Second quarter sales increased by 2.1% primarily driven by higher sales activity in the public sector.
Our commercial market sales were down slightly this quarter on a difficult comparison with a 13% increase last year and our withdrawal from the market of a limited benefit medical product.
Recruiting trends at Colonial Life remain positive with new rep contract growth of 5% this quarter and up 6% year-to-date.
Moving on to the investment portfolio we continue to be very pleased with the results we're producing.
The credit profile of our investment portfolio remains in excellent shape with the net unrealized gain position in our fixed maturity securities portfolio of $3.9 billion at the quarter end and our portfolio watch list declining even further this quarter.
Miscellaneous net investment income which results primarily from bond call premiums was a slight net positive to our results this quarter compared to the year-ago quarter and was slightly higher than our historical quarterly run rate.
The Colonial Life and Unum U.K.
segments were beneficiaries of this source of net investment income this quarter relative to a year ago quarter while miscellaneous net investment income in Unum U.S.
in the closed log [ph] was slightly lower than we saw a year ago.
Putting money to work at good rates is extremely challenging right now but it continues to only have marginal impact on the company.
As we laid out in our last Investor Day we benefit from a low level of new cash flow to invest relative to the size of our existing portfolios and the hedges we have in place on our long-duration LTC portfolio.
Our portfolio yields continue to hold up well with our aggregate portfolio yield of 6.68% down a basis point from the first quarter.
The yields on the investment portfolios backing our various product lines also showed similar stability.
The yield net of our discount rate for Unum U.S.
Group LTD business is in very good shape at 96 basis points as of June 30.
Given these strong ongoing financial results book value per share continues to grow increasing 10.4% from June 30 2010 to $29.94 at June 30 2011.
Moving on to the balance sheet and our capital position statutory earnings remain strong in the second quarter at $171 million.
This level of statutory earnings continues to drive strong growth in our capital position.
The weighted average risk-based capital ratio for our traditional U.S.
life insurance companies was approximately 394% at quarter-end toward the upper end of our target range of 375% to 400%.
Holding company cash and marketable securities totaled $927 million.
We remain active repurchasing our shares with the second quarter totaling $146 million and for the first half of the year was $370 million.
Our leverage ratio remained at just under 21% for the second quarter.
An item to note which is on our earnings release and our soon to be filed 10-Q is that we're providing our current estimate to the future adoption of the accounting standards update which clarifies which costs qualify as deferred acquisition costs.
As you're aware beginning in 2012 only the incremental direct cost associated with successful acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts can be capitalized.
We currently estimate that our retrospective adoption will result in a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance sheet of between $400 million and $600 million in the year of adoption.
This is for U.S.
GAAP accounting only and therefore is non-cash and does not impact our statutory capital our RBC or our holding company liquidity.
We also currently estimate that the adoption of this update will have resulted in an immaterial decrease in net income in 2012 and in the years preceding to which the retrospective adoption will be applied.
It also doesn't impact any of our plans in the coming years.
Finally as we look forward to the second half of 2011 and given a very solid first half of the year we're confirming our previous outlook for 2011 which calls for operating earnings per share growth of 6% to 12%.
Now I'll turn the call back to Tom for his closing comments.
Thanks Rick.
In closing I'm generally pleased with our results this quarter.
The economy and today's employment trends continue to make top line growth a challenge but our ongoing focus on consistent profitable growth has positioned us very well.
Our strong capital position and financial flexibility are valuable assets and I believe will continue to provide us with opportunities to properly [ph] grow our business and continue to follow the capital management strategy of dividend increases and share buybacks that have served our shareholders well.
This completes our formal comments.
And operator let's move to the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Jammi Bhullar with JP Morgan.
First maybe if you could discuss just market conditions in the disability market just in terms of pricing claims incidents recoveries.
Obviously your margins have been stable for the last several quarters but other companies have seen deterioration.
And then on the U.K.
business your ROE was high to begin with.
You're raising prices and I think the thought was that competitors are following your margins and go even higher and that doesn't seem to have happened.
So I was just wondering if you could discuss what -- if your sales remain weak would you lower prices or are you seeing evidence that competitors might follow suit down the road? Jammi let me just ask Kevin actually just talks [ph] the U.S.
market and the pricing themes then Jack obviously can touch on just an update on what's happening in the U.K.
Kevin? First on the competitive side I think I characterize the marketplace as fairly stable.
There seems to be some firming up of pricing stability in the small and mid-market.
On the other hand incumbent carriers continue to defend vigorously their enforced [ph] business.
And I would say that from a competitive environment standpoint those factors plus the movement the steady movement of brokers toward more voluntary benefits all of that speaks well to sort of our strategy.
On the risk side of disability as you know our loss ratio is operating in pretty -- as Rick said a pretty normal range.
We take a look at incidents on a regular basis.
We see some volatility but in no particular segments or cohort.
Mostly we experience sort of a normal level of noise I guess I would call it sort of in the middle part of the year just this year in the same way that we did in 2009 2010.
We're continuing to monitor the economy.
We constantly adjust our pricing to fit what's going on in the economy.
We adjust our target markets we stay pretty disciplined around our core market focus.
We continue to develop our renewal program the same way we've done in the past.
And so I'd say in general we feel like we're on top of the risk situation in disability and we think market conditions bode well for growth for us.
Jack you want to pick up on Jammi's question around the U.K.
and just some of the competitive dynamics there? Sure Jammi.
I would say relative to the competitive dynamics in the U.K.
it's early yet.
We are trying to harden rates in the market.
I think there's a consensus across the market both among brokers as well as competitors that rates need to harden in the market.
The big sales months in the U.K.
are January and April and so there has really only been 4 or 5 months of us hardening rates for the competition to react.
We didn't really expect them to react early in the year.
We're hoping that as they see their sales come due they'll begin to react later in the year.
There are some signs as well on the U.K.
of softening earnings outlooks.
I know LNG reported recently and had some negative results in their group risk line.
So we're sticking the course we're encouraged by our persistency.
We're encouraged by chip [ph] sales being stronger than Group Life sales.
We're encouraged by our expanded coverage in our existing cases which were very strong sales growth.
So I think we're going to stay the course and clearly see if things get better in the second half of the year.
And there are some signs but it wouldn't  say we've seen concrete evidence of the market hardening as yet.
Okay and then maybe if I could ask another one from Rick.
Just on your buyback plan you obviously still have a plan outstanding the stock is pretty cheap.
What's the rationale for not doing an accelerated growth program given where the stock is trading? I think that when look over the course of the quarter stock has gotten cheaper lately.
So our quarter ended on June 30.
If you look back at the second quarter we bought back almost $150 million of stock.
We're really on pace to the authorization we talked about.
And as I said last quarter consistently when the prices are high we'll buy less and as they get low we'll buy more.
And so I think we're probably in one of those points in time where price is lower.
And we'll have to see where it goes from here but we haven't changed our view towards share repurchase.
I think as we mention our capital highlight and Tom mentioned we have an awful lot of flexibility and that's currently a lever that we'll pull.
And we'll take our next question from Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Rick can you maybe provide an update in terms of the preliminary DAC charge I guess in terms of the amount related to the expenses that are no longer DAC-able versus maybe not related to unsuccessful sales and then any further commentary would be appreciated.
Sure I think when you look at that one and note that it's still early in the process.
We put the range out there.
We thought we had a good estimate around where we were so we wanted to take that out to our investors.
And I would say we're not finished.
When you look at the overall impact we probably layout about 2/3 if it's going to be costs that are not deferrable anymore and about 1/3 is successful sales impacts.
And when you think about those 2 categories think about the not deferrable anymore it does not have direct line of sight to the sale.
You could think about rent at a sales office where before we would've said that was directly attributable to sales.
Now without that direct line of sight we won't be differing those costs anymore.
If you think about the unsuccessful sales think about underwriting and things like that where we think they were built on the acquisition and they won't be anymore.
So that gives you a sense of the types of things as I said we are early in the process and I wouldn't extrapolate or generalize too much because it is a very detailed roll up that you need to go through to understand where you are.
Hope that gives you a little bit of insight and obviously we'll bring more to you line of business and that type of view as we get closer to Investor Day and outlooks for 2012.
Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe for Kevin regarding the long-term care book business can you give us an update in terms of where you are with the filing of rate increases.
And then we think about the interest adjusted benefit ratio where you think that kind of settles in as we have seen increase in active life reserves with hopefully an offset from higher premiums? Well as Rick said in his early remarks we're well on pace to achieve so far what looks to be about 84% of our desired price increases.
We'll continue to push that through.
We've gotten some optimistic signs even from some states that we thought might be more difficult.
So I'm feeling pretty optimistic that we're going to achieve our price increase goal and as Rick said that'll flow through in 2012 and 2013 into top line and bottom line.
In terms of interest adjusted loss ratio I think we're making all these moves right now in terms of building up active life reserves and placing rate increases in order to get that loss ratio stabilized probably somewhere in the mid-80s.
And we'll take our next question from Colin Devine with Citi.
I've got 3.
First with respect to the pace of buybacks they're a little slower this quarter than the first.
Tom I think you've been quoted in the media talking a little bit more about M&amp;A lately.
Is there anything we should be reading into that is the first question.
Second with respect to the change in DAC Rick I assume most of the adjustments coming on the supplemental and voluntary line perhaps if you could just give us some idea because it does represent I guess about 25% roughly of your outstanding DAC that you're going to adjust downward or about $2 a share.
And then for Kevin looking at persistency trends this quarter should we start to infer perhaps somewhat slower momentum heading into next year? And I guess tied to that obviously there was some fairly flat premium growth this year.
Let me start and as I said we'll move to Rick and Kevin for his 2 pieces but I -- you're right we have been sort of talking a bit more about M&amp;A but I must say we really haven't changed direction in terms of the fact -- the primary focus is running our operations.
Secondarily is putting our capital back in the hands of shareholders through dividend actions and share buybacks.
And oh by the way if we can find an M&amp;A transactions that fit on to our strategic plan and financial foundation we'll do it and we certainly are looking at some things.
But I wouldn't want you or anyone to think that we're holding back on capital in anticipation of M&amp;A.
Our view I think frankly has always been if we saw the right thing that fits strategically and financially we'll find the capital to support it.
So let's not hold back too much capital in anticipation of something that actually may never happen because as you know we're incredibly disciplined about the things we look at.
But we are trying to be active.
Just as a general matter there's not a lot out there.
But again I don't think that we're warehousing for that because as I said I have a strong belief that if the right thing comes along strategically and financially we'll find the capital to support that.
So I think Rick you were talking about the pace of buybacks I think we're not going to change that [ph] on that score.
You want to pick up Rick the debt question? It's about general...
Yes just on debt bonds -- to give you some general it's across the board quite frankly.
In terms of where it is.
I think the percentages talk about the write off would represent probably the write off you'd see on a pro rata basis across the board.
Like I said we'll have to give more details out there.
There may be a bit higher percentages in some of our group lines.
But those that will carry lower DAC balances and all that is  in back of the  sub [ph] but the statistical supplement...
Will this drive any change to how you're going to  operating Colonial with the career force? No it won't.
And when you look at it in terms of where we are and the variable cost base that we have in Colonial Life today I think we'll continue to operate it very much the same way.
Try to make that -- I don't actually see us actually changing operating practices around the horn at all as a result of this.
Kevin you want to pick up the persistency question? Sure.
I think persistency is pretty stable.
I think it was virtually stable in every single line of business.
There was a little bit of that downtick in Group Life I think primarily driven by a couple of expected sort of large case terminations.
Otherwise very stable.
I think that's a reflection to some extent of our customer relationship metrics which are all extremely sound on the satisfaction side.
I think it's also a reflection of a little bit of market inertia.
I think out to bid [ph] seem to be  at a lower level over the last year or so than they had been in prior years.
Probably it's a reflection a little bit of more stable pricing in the marketplace and so there's less opportunity to go to bid and get a better deal maybe.
So I expect persistency to sort of hold up and stay about where it is.
And then I think on the flat premium side of the question I think that's more a reflection of lack of employment growth and the lack of wage inflation and that's really sort of all about the economy.
Also as you remember last year and the year before we were lagging on what we call MBOC sales to existing customers primarily driven I think by customers tightening up a little bit and sitting tight on their benefits.
We did see some uptick 2 out of the last 3 quarters now in terms of MBOC sales and that would have a positive impact on 2012 2013 premium if that continued.
Okay.
Just I guess sort of extending that a little bit you're now heading into the renewal season.
I assume that the pencil is sharpened up perhaps [indiscernible] what sort of premium increase do you think we're going to see this year rate increase? I think we'll probably be in the low single-digits going forward.
I think some of it will be a reflection of sort of the natural aging of the block a little bit of a reflection of our normal triage process where we identify where we need to get those rate increases.
The increase this year has been about 2% although the asked increase on cases that terminated was at 8%.
So  I'd expect to see sort of in that thing kind of range and we'll also monitor some of the activity that's going on with the Social Security administration around their approval rates and that kind of thing into the extent that we think that Social Security offsets could be under pressure then we'd be moving rates up there as well.
So I'd be -- in the low single digits.
And we'll take our next question from Stephen Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.</strong> I did want to ask about Social Security so I think you just handled that.
I think what you're telling me or telling us is that if that Social Security comes under pressure that that would affect you negatively and that you would have to take actions? Yes.
Basically if Social Security just sort of changed it's approval practices and we started to see fewer approvals if you will then we'd have to price for that.
But I think we're well prepared for that.
We have a very robust and  well structured renewal program that's been very successful for us over the last 5 years.
We will just start to build that into pricing over time.
Inc.</strong> I was thinking more along the lines of say whatever Congress comes into commission vis-à-vis potential cuts to Social Security.
In terms of Social Security benefit design? It's very hard to prognosticate about that.
There's so much politics involved in that particular question to what what's real and what's not real.
I'll be very surprised if Social Security disability benefits in terms of benefit design are cut.
I think what's more likely is they might tighten up their claim management practices a little given the economic pressures that they're under and that's really what I'm referring to.
And just as the background points [ph] it's worth noting too that a very small percentage of those who actually have disability benefits actually have private disability insurance so it's a very very small piece of the puzzle actually.
Absolutely right.
I mean I think it's more likely that Social Security will be looking at -- a large majority of the claims that they'll be looking at wouldn't necessarily be people that are covered by us.
Inc.</strong> And then if I could I think Rick you said that the overall effect of interest rate or the yield on the overall portfolio was 6.68%.
Was that correct? Correct.
Inc.</strong> Could you give us a sense of what you're investing that new money at.
Much lower than that.
And I try to reflect the remarks.
It's tight today.
We would have seen this environment last year if you go back to August of last year where rates came down for different reasons credit spreads were a little bit wider then.
They're actually quite tight right now.
The good news is and you have to take it back to our company we're not putting a lot of cash to work.
So we are able to wait sit on our hands until the deal comes along that hit the targets we're looking at.
But it is a very tough environment for our investment team right now.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So no number for us? In terms of where new money is you have to go across the curve.
But I mean you can do as well as I take the 10-year treasury and add 200 basis points on top of it.
Last year we would've had the opportunity to go into some different asset classes which would give us some different yield.
Tom mentioned that in his comments around tax-advantaged investments we had Build America Bonds and things that fit very nice in our portfolio some of those don't exist this year or we've been priced out of the market on that front.
So it is quite difficult.
Just a reminder though too maybe Tom or Rick I mean the amount of cash we have to put out that is unhedged actually over the next couple of quarters is pretty unlimited.
Yes I mean if you look -- I'll take you back to the this is Tom White the information from Investor Day back in November we've got about $2.5 billion of new money to invest on a $40 billion to $43 billion investment portfolio.
And as you kind of break that out by line of business there's  little's bit more proportionally in long-term care.
And there we've got about 30% of that money hedged.
So as Rick said it's a challenging environment.
This past quarter new money yield was a little less than 6%.
We benefit from the hedge on lines that occurred and they'll continue to occur over the next couple of years.
And we'll take our next question from Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> The Colonial sales force how was  recruiting activity in the quarter? How do you see that going forward? Randy you want to touch on that.
Sure Tom.
Yes the recruiting was up a little above 5% for the quarter and that was on top of a very strong second quarter last year and we still feel like we have a very strong recruiting system.
We have all the right alignment Mark that we need within our field leadership structure.
And it's a key area of focus for us.
So we still have a positive outlook in terms of ongoing growth in new rep recruiting.
Inc.</strong> Then how about on the voluntary side you had obviously a tough comp this quarter.
Have you seen the dynamic there change at all or is it still good increasing demand? Maybe Mark we're talking both sides.
Randy while you got the mic why don't you speak to just what you're seeing in the voluntary sales in Colonial then Kevin if you could because I think the talk about the tough comp was more the issue with Unum US [ph].
Yes Mark.
On our side of it we're still seeing a good opportunity out there in the market.
I think Rick and Tom mentioned earlier the success we had specifically in the public sector.
Part of the market in the second quarter very strong new account sales there.
And although there certainly are continuing economic headwinds we're all very aware of that I think the general trend towards more employee responsibility for their benefits serves us well and is going to continue to create opportunities for us.
Kevin you want to speak because again you had  the tougher sort of comparison.
In terms of voluntary trends we're very bullish on voluntary.
I think the tough comparison is driven by we had 2 very large takeover cases last year existing voluntary plans that moved from another company to us and that was worth about $8 million to $10 million.
So voluntary sales would've been up in this quarter other than that comparison.
We see more brokers everyday getting in to the voluntary business.
Our voluntary core market sales are growing our voluntary case sales have been steadily growing and our smaller [ph] case in the marketplace are simply in a platform.
Our voluntary sales associated with group grew 23%.
So I think all in all we're looking pretty good.
The pipeline is feeling pretty good as well.
And we'll take our next question from Bob Glasspiegel from Langen McAlenney.
Rick you said that the accounting change doesn't change any of your components of your plan.
But my math calculation it does boost ROE by 60 basis points.
So since this is a non-economic non-cash event is it fair to say that you would increase your ROE by 60 bps for your plan and how the board sort of  is assessing  the performance et cetera? Yes I mean that's accurate.
It will have that impact on our ROE.
When I talked about our plans it was more operational plans that I was referring to and we're going to fund [ph] the business the same way.
But you will see impact you will see the ROE go up roughly half a point.
You will see book value per share come down somewhere in the middle of that range it would be probably in the $1.5 range.
But net I was talking about operational plans.
We're going to run the company the same way.
But you're paid more on book value growth -- I mean but you're paid more on ROE than book value growth.
Or am I wrong on that sort of assumption as far as the plan? Yes we are but that will be a 2012 item we'll talk about  on a recasted basis with our board when we get to setting plan targets.
On a macro basis and we talked a little bit about this but what I hear from you is 260 10-year risk of a double dip and a sloppier economic growth.
Doesn't really move the needle as far as any of your plan any of your strategy? From here you just assume this is sort of short-term rather than something structural that needs to result in a significant business plan adjustment.
Bob I'll start with that.
Maybe I'll ask others to pitch in but yes I don't think anything that we're seeing now is changing our strategic direction or our focus in the marketplace.
It's not changing how we've sort of organized ourselves operationally to think about supporting the marketplace and so it  really hasn't changed as Rick said really the material aspects of our financial outlook.
So obviously we could use a better economic environment as measured by employment growth.
We could use a better environment in terms of interest rate.
But I think we've proven even over the last couple of years during the financial crisis and the economic sort of headwinds we had to face that our plan hangs in there quite well actually even in those tougher times.
Now we're continuing to reinvent ourselves.
We're continuing to do things to make our products and services even more competitive.
So don't get me wrong we're certainly not complacent.
But it's not as if this environment is causing us to do a dramatic change in direction.
And the 260 10-year doesn't say we got to increase our rate increases because you went through this a year ago and you just sort of think this is short-term blip and rates will go higher.
Yes.
I think as Rick always said we monitor things carefully.
We have a very close connection between market interest rates our pricing assumptions how we think about discount rates on new claims.
So all those pieces of the decision process are very tightly tethered.
And I think just as we've always said in the past we don't move quickly to short-term movement.
I think that's the key our pricing.
One of our hallmarks in the market is stability of pricing that we've taken out there.
So we may move there on a gradual basis and they reflect a longer-term view of where things have been and where they're going and I think that we'll continue to run the business that way.
It seems like long-term care is probably the most sensitive to sustain long-term low-interest rate environment.
Is that true? I probably wouldn't use the word sensitive but it's certainly something you have to watch the most in terms of where it goes over time.
And Tom mentioned our hedges that we have in place that's where I'm watching the 30-year not the 10-year which has come down equally as quickly.
And then you look at the credit spreads along them [ph].
So we've been fortunate to get some long assets behind that and some pretty good rates over the course of last year.
When you throw the hedges on top of that we've been fine.
Right now it's tough to put 30-year money out there at a reasonable rate.
And we'll take our next question from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
I have a couple for you.
A couple of data points.
In the U.K.
business I know the inflation linked Group Life business is having an impact on this benefit ratio.
Is it possible for you guys to give us an adjusted benefit ratio that removes that impact so we can get a sense for the trend underlying? When we look at that actually it's something we're looking at how we will take that out in the future given the volatility of the interest -- I should say the inflation moves in the U.K.
are so great.
So it's certainly something were thinking about and we'll work on breaking that out.
I think it's more of a general trending item that we've talked about this quarter with inflation moving.
So that's something we're considering and we'll certainly have more discussion on that.
During the quarter did you take any dividends up from the operating subs to the holding company? We do.
We took about $140 million out of the operating subs in the U.S.
We also have dividends flowing from the U.K.
up as well.
How much was that from the U.K? U.K.
was in pounds somewhere between GBP 35 million and GBP 40 million.
I would highlight those are very consistent dividend levels and that's what we're looking at.
It's consistent streams of dividends up from operating companies to holding company to putting it back to work.
If I could follow-up on the DAC accounting change as we look forward and if I assume you guys make no changes to your sales-oriented expenses about how much of the cost that you now defer will no longer be deferred? It will be about that same ratio of the...
So it's about 25% to 35%? Okay.
So at the end of the day the results here on forward earnings is really no meaningful impact? Just to confirm.
That's correct.
And then finally Kevin it wouldn't be a quarterly call if I didn't try to give you -- get a sense a little bit more detail on pricing shifts in the market.
Maybe to be a bit more specific this may be difficult but if I held all the variables constant for you wages employee numbers benefit plans attachment points et cetera can you characterize for us in the small mid and large case market how much pricing in Group Disability and Group Life is up today versus maybe a year or 2 ago? The market prices for LTD are fairly flat when you' look in total.
When we talk about soft pricing in the marketplace it has more to do with sort of the number of competitors that are pricing low as opposed to sort of overall pricing levels.
Overall pricing levels have been fairly flat.
We've been moving rates up as you know over the last 5 years.
But now we're sort of in the low single-digit rate adjustment every year which is mostly driven just by the aging of the block.
I think the industry -- the question going forward is that the industry margins have been shrinking steadily over the last 4 years.
I think you can take a look at the January JHA data.
And our margins of course have been increasing during that same period of time.
And I think that our discipline has worked out really really well for us on that side of the page and I think maybe that's what we'll start to see in the marketplace with some competitors starting to firm it recognizing the deterioration in their margins.
I think if you look at STD business I think it's the same kind of story.
Margins have been deteriorating.
I think if you look in the January studies STD as an entire industry was slightly south of breakeven.
Last year the ASL business was even further south of breakeven.
So I think there might see some hardening on the STD side as well.
Group Life I think is very very stable in the small and mid-markets.
That doesn't move very much.
Mortality has been very stable.
I think in a large case marketplace it's a different story.
As you know we don't sell for the most part large stand-alone Group Life and the reason that we don't is that that tends to be a significant commodity play price shopping play price negotiation play and that marketplace I think is extremely volatile.
And we'll take our next question from Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
First I had a question for Rick.
Just following up on Stephen Schwartz's question about difference between new money and portfolio yield.
So the numbers would be let's say new money is 4.5 to 5.
Portfolio yield 6.68%.
But that 6.68% is duration weighted book yield.
If I look at your nominal portfolio yield which is how we all model earnings that number's a lot lower.
It's actually 5.4%.
So using the numbers that matter from an earnings standpoint for you and the difference wouldn't appear to be that great.
So I guess my question to you is which ratio -- which statistics matters more to you? Like how is 6.68% relevant to you because your comments indicated that there was a very big gap between the 2.
But from an absolute earnings standpoint the gap doesn't appear as wide.
Anyway can you comment in terms of how you would view that? That's why I caution it's really across the curve and it's not any good aggregate measure to look at.
What I think about is more given the duration weight which talks much more about the longer assets we have as opposed to the reported yield that we have today at  the 6.68% I look at the 30-year and then I use the credit spreads off of that.
So you have a very fair point when you look at that duration weighted it's a lot higher.
And actually rates even with the low levels that they're at today you'd have to take the 3.90 [ph] or more roughly 4% around 30-year and then take credit spread off of that which gets you much closer to that portfolio rate.
You really have to disaggregate it portfolio by portfolio that's actually how I think about it.
It's no aggregate levels.
We manage this portfolio by portfolio.
And we've done very well even in a fairly low interest rate environment over the last year to hit our bogies along the way.
I'd say it's tough but we're not letting up on our investment team to find the jewels out there as we continue to go through this to hit our targets.
I think it safe to say too believe it or not actually our results were pretty close to plan actually as it relates to some of the investment activity we intended.
So that's the other element here which is what we expected.
I'm giving you more a sense of that it's hard out there which I don't is a surprise to you as opposed to how we've been able to operate and work our way through the low interest environment to date and really how we expect our team to operate through this low-interest rate environment going forward.
And just a follow-up as I think about the potential headwind of rates to me the difference that we're seeing today would only be 100 basis points just using nominal yield.
It wouldn't be 200 base points.
Because if you're using 200 basis points and somehow that is the real economic difference I think it's a bigger headwind.
So I guess the follow-up is as you think about your business is there some offset that I'm not thinking about from a liability standpoint that economically the kind of disparity or difference is really more 200 basis points or is it just the nominal 100 basis point spread is the more accurate way to think about the forward earnings impact? Yes.
I'd probably much more in that 100 range from a spot perspective.
It's going to be dependent on the deal and you have to disaggregate.
So when I'm talking about 10-year money I'm thinking more about our Group Long-term Disability line.
When I'm thinking about our Long-term Care I'm thinking about our 30-year money.
So we're lower than the portfolio rates there today but over the last year in a very tough -- what I would say last year was also a tough investment environment we've actually been able to hit our bogies along the way.
So as I look forward it's going to be tough.
But I wouldn't see our portfolio creeping down or moving down very quickly.
I think we've highlighted that the portfolio yield and aggregate over last year has barely moved and rates have not been very high.
So it's something we worry about we work on.
But there's no near-term pressure that I'm feeling as a result.
Okay.
And then just a question on Long-term Care that interest adjusted benefit ratio is creeping up.
Can you comment on how much margin do you have left there? I know you haven't separately disclosed or broken out what the GAAP margins are there but I think in prior quarters when that benefit ratio was lower you had mentioned there was a little bit of room not a lot.
So as that creeps up are we in jeopardy of having that turn to a negative margin for the block? Yes.
I don't think we ever said there was a little bit of margin if you go back to what we said.
There's margin on the block.
I mean I you take back to the dynamics [ph] which is exactly what Kevin said.
Yes you adjust the loss ratio as you're going up.
That's an expectation of that block given the very high persistency we've got and we're taking pricing actions to combat that.
The pricing actions will take a little bit longer to come in so we're not surprised that interest adjusted loss ratio is still going up until those pricing actions take effect.
But to be clear it's a tough business and the long tail nature of it we're taking the actions necessary to manage the block.
And then last question just on the disability underwriting results and how those who have held in so well so if I understand it correctly over the last several quarters you've had very good claim recovery results that have offset slight pickup in incidents.
On the claim recovery side is there any -- can you give us a little bit more in terms of what's going on underneath the covers there? Is there any diminishing return benefit that's going to go away or is that a sustainable trend where you think you can continue to see good claim recoveries even if the employment we're picturing [ph] sort of remains where it is today? It's Kevin.
I'm very confident in the consistency of performance in our claims management operation.
I think they're very much on top of managing their inventory they're very much on top of quality control and quality assurance reviews.
I think they pay close attention to what's going on with Social Security.
I think they are very careful about managing the claims practices right to the contract.
I think we've improved steadily over the last 5 years in terms of relationship management with claimants and with claimants employers and between our doctors and claimants doctors.
And I don't see any reason we won't be able to sustain that claim recovery performance.
And I think operator we just have time -- we're a little sensitive to time one more question.
And we'll take our last question from Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
Just a few quick ones.
First I want to follow-up on Tom Gallagher's question which I thought was a very interesting one an excellent question.
If the duration weighted book yield is in fact capturing the true economics of your portfolio what's going on considering the length of time that those  bonds are outstanding as opposed to a nominal yield which I gather would just treat all bonds identically and is not an economic view of your yield why isn't the book yield the right -- pardon me why isn't the duration weighted book yield the right number to be looking at when comparing the yield on the portfolio to new money? That's my first question.
To answer your question the reason we focused on the duration weighted is because we think that is the right answer.
When you look at it.
And so that's where I think you're absolutely right Eric.
Looking at the duration weighted it's important.
When we look at our liabilities and our assets that's really what we're matching up to.
So I think that you're right on the money there.
Okay.
Thanks for clarifying.
I had a misunderstanding.
Second question of 3 relates to -- is really for Kevin.
In thinking about pricing you are latest disability executive.
Yesterday someone I met was talking about pricing firming.
My question is -- and he was talking about large case you today we're talking about small and mid-sized.
My question is why is why is it firming especially in the context of a weak economy? I would think it would be difficult for suppliers of any product of service or a good to push through price increases and to get firming prices.
Why are we seeing a firming of pricing and how is this happening in the context of a weak economy? I think Eric we're talking about orders of magnitude here.
I think pricing had been as I said in disability in particular sort of very flat some volatility by market segment particularly in the mid and large.
I think over the last couple of years especially the last 12 months a number of companies have had deterioration of result.
Our competitors have deterioration of results.
I think several companies have pointed out that they intend to increase prices.
I can think of at least 3 that have mentioned that if not more.
And I think that's what's firming up the pricing.
And I think that it's not sort of an order of magnitude that's having a big impact on an employer.
You think about disability we're talking about a premium for Life that's in the $250 to $300 per year per person kind of range.
So I think firming up a price just is I think maybe shoring up everyone's persistency and may be helping to shore up eventually industry profitability.
Last question also for you Kevin relates to the voluntary business.
While I certainly understand the long-term case for growth in the voluntary area the reasons for it are apparent.
I can't help wondering in a difficult economic environment while employers may be more willing more interested than ever in having their employees pay because voluntary coverage as I understand typically involves some contribution if not a significant or total contribution by the employee what about what  the employees are thinking? In other words I would think that in a difficult employment environment employees offered benefits might say not now maybe when I feel more comfortable.
How does all that work? I think regardless of what's going on in the defined benefit -- to defined contribution shift from employer to employee the fact remains that employees still need financial protection.
And the financial protections that we provide in our product lines particularly our voluntary product lines are extremely affordable and cover significant risks.
I mean whether it's a critical illness risk a short-term disability risk an accident risk or a life risk I think in every one of those cases employees and their families need that level of protection and it's a very affordable level of protection for a very high level of potential risk.
And I think that's what's driving it and if you look back at the last couple of years of deterioration in our economy we have not seen persistency in voluntary move at all and we haven't really seen participation rates move down either.
I think going forward over time as more and more brokers are involved in voluntary as we get out there and increase public awareness around the protection and safety net that you get from our products I think if anything you'll see participation rates go up.
Operator I think we are going to thank everyone for joining us this morning.
I think at this point operator we'll conclude our second quarter 2010 earnings call.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference call.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Unum Group Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'll turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead sir.
Great.
Thank you Debbie.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Analyst and Investor Call for Unum Group.
Our remarks this morning will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2010 and in our subsequently filed Forms 10-Q.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website at www.unum.com.
Also I'd remind you that statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found on our website also in the Investors section.
So participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen President and CEO; and Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; and also our business segment presidents Kevin McCarthy for Unum U.S; Randy Horn for Colonial Life; and Jack McGarry for Unum U.K.
And now I'll turn the call over to Tom Watjen Tom? Thank you Tom and good morning.
Although a little choppy this quarter actually I'm pretty pleased with our quarter.
Because despite the pressures that we saw in several of our product areas and most notably in the U.K.
our earnings per share grew 9% in the quarter.
Before I turn things over to Rick and Tom I want to touch on actually a few of the highlights.
First despite continued challenging market conditions our investment portfolio remains in excellent shape.
Today's low interest rates remain a headwind.
But our portfolio yields remain generally stable again this quarter.
Despite this we have already begun to reflect today's lower interest rates in certain of our businesses and reduced the new claim discount rate for our U.S.
Group Disability business by 25 basis points.
Second our capital position remains solid with a weighted average risk-based capital ratio of 396% at the end of the third quarter.
Our holding company's cash and marketable securities position at over $600 million providing a solid financial foundation for the company.
Third with respect to our share repurchase activity.
Given the weakness in our stock this past quarter we stepped up our stock buyback activity with a total of $250 million repurchased this quarter.
Over the past year and a half we have repurchased $975 million of stock and reduced our share count by 12%.
And since the fourth quarter of 2007 we have repurchased almost $1.7 billion of stock reducing our share count by 19%.
Over the same period we've raised our quarterly dividend by about 40% while all of the same time remaining in a very solid financial position.
And finally despite the difficult market conditions I'm pleased that we continue to see modest growth in most of our target market.
Unum US reported growth in new sales of 10% this quarter with 12% growth in core market sales and 16% growth in voluntary benefits sales.
Sales at Colonial Life were up almost 4% in total and core commercial market sales grew 7%.
Sales growth in the U.K.
remains challenging as we continue to raise prices on new and existing business.
In summary despite the pressure we saw on parts of our businesses this quarter particularly in our U.K.
business I'm generally pleased with our performance.
Looking ahead we expect the environment to remain very challenging with continued pressure from persistently high unemployment and low interest rates.
We continue to believe that we are well-positioned for this environment and we will continue to take the actions needed to deliver value for our customers and solid financial results for our shareholders.
Now I'll ask Tom White to provide an overview of our operating results this quarter.
Tom? Great.
Thanks Tom.
Net income for the third quarter was $205.6 million or $0.69 per diluted common share compared to net income of $220.8 million or $0.68 per diluted common share last year.
Included in the results for the third quarter of 2011 our net realized after-tax investment losses of $15.9 million or $0.05 per diluted common share compared to net realized after-tax investment gains of $0.9 million or less than $0.01 per diluted common share in the third quarter of 2010.
Net realized after-tax investment losses for the third quarter 2011 include an after-tax loss of $21.8 million resulting from changes in the fair value of an embedded derivative in a modified coinsurance contract compared to an after-tax gain of $1.1 million in the year-ago quarter.
Excluding these items after-tax operating income was $221.5 million for this quarter or $0.74 per diluted common share compared to $219.9 million or $0.68 per diluted common share in the year-ago quarter.
The income tax rate for the third quarter was lower compared to a year ago due to the release of $6.8 million of income taxes related to the enactment of a tax rate reduction in the U.K.
and our increased level of investment and tax credit partnerships over the past year.
Turning to the operating segments Unum US operating income increased 7.2% to $219.5 million in the third quarter as strong results in the Supplemental and Voluntary line of business and generally stable results in the Group Life and AD&amp;D line of business more than offset a decline in operating income in our Group Disability line of business.
Within Unum US operating income in the Group Disability line declined by 7.3% to $72.1 million in the third quarter of 2011 driven by a lower level of premium income and an increase in the benefit ratio.
Premium income declined 0.9% to $508.9 million in the quarter largely due to the ongoing effects of the weak economy on headcount and salary growth at existing customers.
The Group Disability benefit ratio rose to 85.5% from 84.6% in the year-ago period due to a higher level of paid incidents for both long-term and short-term disability as well as a reduction in the discount rate for Group Long-term Disability new claim accruals and Rick will have additional comments about our risk results in his remarks.
Within the Group Life and AD&amp;D line operating income increased 0.6 % to $53.1 million in the third quarter benefiting from slightly higher revenue in a slightly lower benefit ratio.
In the Supplemental and Voluntary line third quarter income increased 27.3% to $94.3 million.
The year-over-year improvement was driven primarily by strong results from the Voluntary Benefits business line as well as solid growth in the recently issued Individual Disability line the effects of which more than offset a decline in income from the Long-term Care business.
Premium income for this line increased 3.9% to $412.3 million in the third quarter primarily due to higher sales in the voluntary benefits line of business.
The interest adjusted loss ratio for Individual Disability recently issued declined due to favorable claims performance.
The interest adjusted loss ratio for Long-term Care was higher primarily to an increase in active life reserves as a result of continued favorable persistency levels as well as an increase in loss trends.
The benefit ratio for voluntary benefits declined to 50.3% from 54.6% in the year-ago period due primarily to a lower average paid claim size for voluntary life and lower paid incidents and prevalence rates for voluntary disability.
Moving to Unum UK operating income in this segment decreased 26.1% to $34.9 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Operating income declined 28.6% in local currency.
So while premium income in local currency was up 4.8% in the third quarter the benefit ratio was higher at 78.8% compared to 66.9% reflecting unfavorable risk experience in the Group Long-term Disability product primarily -- driven primarily by the increase in the average size and severity of new claims in the third quarter relative to the year-ago period.
Concluding our core operations Colonial Life experienced a 5.6% decrease in operating income compared to the year-ago period as premium income growth of 5.3% and slightly higher net investment income were more than offset by a higher benefit ratio.
The benefit ratio rose to 52.6% in the quarter from 49.9% in the same period last year due to a higher level of incurred claims in the accident sickness and disability product line and an increase in the level of cancer claims coming from an older block of cancer products.
Individual Disability — Closed Block operating income was $14 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $9.8 million in the year-ago quarter.
This was driven primarily by lower operating expenses and a decline in the interest adjusted loss ratio which more than offset a decline in both premium income and net investment income due to the expected runoff of the Closed Block.
Premium income declined 5.8% to $196.4 million while net investment income declined 1.9% due to a lower level of on call premiums a decline in prepayment income on mortgage-backed securities and a decrease in the level of assets.
The interest adjusted loss ratio was 84.9% this quarter compared to 85.5% in the year-ago quarter reflecting favorable mortality experience.
And finally the Corporate and Other segment reported an operating loss of $21.5 million compared to a loss of $10.8 million in the year-ago quarter.
The higher operating loss was driven primarily by lower net investment income resulting from lower short-term interest rates and investments in low income housing tax credit partnerships.
So with that overview of the operating results I'll turn the call over to Rick McKenney for further analysis of this quarter's results.
Great.
Thank you Tom.
A couple of themes to take you through.
First I'll highlight the key drivers of risk results a little bit on our top line growth in our core business segments and then update on our investment portfolio with a particular view to rates and conclude with an update on our capital strategy.
I'll begin with a review of risk experience for our primary lines of business starting with Unum US.
For Group Disability the benefit ratio of 85.5% increased by roughly one percentage point in the third quarter compared to the second quarter of 2011 as well as the third quarter of 2010.
Focusing on the change from the prior quarter were 2 primary drivers.
First we elected to reduce the discount rate we use on new claim incurrals this quarter by 25 basis points.
This had an impact on our earnings of $3 million or about 65 basis points on the benefit ratio.
We felt that this was an appropriate move given today's low interest rate environment.
I would note that our portfolio rate remains very robust.
In fact the margin widened by 2 basis points to 98 basis points this quarter.
Despite that we did feel that the magnitude of the recent drop in interest rates warranted the move to adjust slightly.
Second as we have commented in the prior few quarters we have seen a higher level of volatility in our new claim incidents.
And this quarter was no exception to the trend.
New claim incidents was slightly elevated again this quarter and had a negative impact on the benefit ratio of approximately 0.5%.
As we have seen in the past our claim recovery experience remained solid again this quarter.
Looking ahead we will continue to monitor these 2 trends closely and look to take the appropriate pricing actions to maintain profitability.
For the Group Life and AD&amp;D line results continue to remain stable.
The benefit ratio of 70.2% for the third quarter is very consistent with the results we produced over the past several quarters and the earnings contribution remains very consistent in the low $50 million range.
Looking to the Supplemental and Voluntary lines within Unum US we saw a very good overall earnings results driven by strong performance in the voluntary benefits and Individual Disability recently issued lines of business.
Risk results in these lines are favorable compared to the year-ago quarter.
We also saw lower amortization of deferred acquisition costs due to favorable premium persistency in certain product lines as well as an unlocking for favorable mortality experience in our interest-sensitive voluntary life products.
Turning to Long-term Care the loss ratio was higher both on a year-over-year and compared to the second quarter driven by the continued growth of active life reserves for this quarter due to the trend we've seen for both persistency as well as loss trends.
As we have discussed on prior calls with you we are working to offset this by filing for rate increases on certain of our LTC policies.
These filings have been completed in all 50 states in the District of Columbia.
So far we have received rate increase for approval in 35 states and have achieved 88% of the requested rate action in those states that have reached a decision.
The additional premium from this rate increase will emerge over next year and into 2013.
Looking across the business loss pressure was most acute in the U.K.
We saw an unusually large increase in the average size and acceptance of new claims and the Group Long-term Disability line in the third quarter which drove an increase in the benefit ratio to 78.8% compared to 69.8% in the second quarter and 66.9% in the year-ago quarter.
While year-over-year new claims volumes were broadly in line the percentage of approved claims went up resulting in an increase in reserves associated with these new claims.
In addition the average size of these approved claims was also elevated.
This compounded the effect of the higher acceptance ratio.
As we've analyzed the results we can't point to any external causal factors but we will obviously continue to watch closely to determine if it's truly just volatility.
And finally on Colonial Life the benefit ratio for the third quarter was 52.6% slightly higher than our expected range of 50% to 52%.
This quarter we experienced less favorable risk results in the accident sickness and disability line and also in the cancer and critical illness line.
The primary driver or adverse results for cancer and critical illness came from unfavorable risk experience on older policies that we no longer actively market and have been taking pricing actions on.
Our newer policies do not have the policy provisions that have led to the volatility that we've experienced in this line.
Given these results as well as the mixed shift towards slightly higher benefit ratios associated with a new accident product it is likely that the Colonial Life benefit ratio will continue around these levels into 2012.
Overall we still like the profit of margins we see this business produces and the growth opportunities we see going forward.
I'd like to now turn to the top line for each of our business segments beginning with Unum US.
We saw a good momentum for new sales in Unum US again this quarter increasing 10% for both the third quarter and the first 9 months of 2011.
Group LTD STD and Group Life and AD&amp;D combine to shows sales growth of just over 4%.
But importantly 80% of those sales were generated in the core market.
Voluntary benefits continues to be a positive growth opportunity for us with sales this quarter growing 16% and growth of overall premiums in this line at a healthy 10%.
While new sales trends remain encouraging we have stable persistency trends in our primary Unum US business lines.
The challenge continues to be the slight drag on our overall premium growth from a weak economy and lack of employment and wage growth.
At Unum UK the top line trends we experienced in the third quarter were largely consistent with what we experienced in the first half of the year.
While new sales trends remain difficult declining 30% compared to the year-ago quarter we have seen that persistency is holding up well and premium income continues to firm up increasing 4.8% compared to last year's third quarter.
So while gaining new business remains challenging in the U.K.
especially the large case market we are encouraged by the progress we're making on renewals on our in-force business.
Finally sales in Colonial Life segment increased 3.6% in the third quarter primarily driven by higher sales activity in the core commercial sector which is up 7.1%.
Recruiting trends at Colonial Life remained positive with new rep contract growth of 5% this quarter and 6% year-to-date.
If we now turn to the investment portfolio we continue to be very pleased with the results.
The credit profile of our investment portfolio remains in excellent shape.
With a net unrealized gain position in our fixed maturity securities portfolio at $5.7 billion at quarter end.
This quarter we reported a net realized after-tax investment gain excluding the amount of derivative impact of $6 million and our portfolio watch list remains quite small.
So while the quality of the existing portfolio continues to be quite strong the challenge remains in investing new cash flows at attractive rates.
This is not a new topic.
But so far it's only had a marginal impact on our portfolio yields.
We benefit from having a low level of new cash flow to invest relative to the size of our existing portfolios as well as the hedges we have in place on our long-duration LTC portfolio.
This allows us to pick our spots as we did this quarter by investing early in the quarter.
As a result our portfolio yields continue to hold up well with our aggregate portfolio yield of 6.68% down only 3 basis points from the beginning of the year.
The yields on the investment portfolios backing our various products lines also showed some more stability.
As I mentioned previously we did move the new claim discount rate down by 25 basis points in the Unum US Group Long-term Disability line this quarter to begin to recognize the drop in interest rates.
The portfolio yield net of our discount rate for this line expanded by 2 basis points in the quarter to 98 basis points so we continue to remain well-positioned but we're also taking actions on some of the challenges we see on the horizon.
We'll spend more time in our upcoming Investor Day meeting dissecting the impacts of the current environment on our portfolio.
Our balance sheet and capital position remain in a very healthy position.
Book value per share continues to grow increasing 15.2% from September 30 2010 to $32.36 at September 30 2011 and leverage remains stable at 29.2%.
Statutory operating earnings for our traditional U.S.
life insurance companies declined somewhat to $139 million from $157 million in the year-ago quarter reflecting some of the loss pressure that I mentioned.
The weighted average risk-based capital ratio for our traditional U.S.
life insurance companies remains strong at approximately 396% at quarter end at the upper end of our targeted 375% to 400% range.
Holding company cash and marketable securities totaled $647 million at September 30.
With lower stock price in the third quarter we stepped up our share repurchase activity and bought back $200 million in the quarter.
Which brings the total year-to-date number to $620 million.
Finally as we look to the fourth quarter we're confirming the outlook we provided going into 2011 which calls for operating earnings per share growth of 6% to 12%.
We'll discuss our outlook for 2012 at our Investor Day on November 16 in New York and look forward to seeing you there.
I'll now turn it back to Tom for his closing comments.
Thanks Rick.
In closing despite pressure in a few areas especially with our U.K.
business I'm generally pleased with our overall results and the 9% increase in earnings per share.
Our investment portfolio and capital position remain significant assets in this environment and position us well for what is likely to remain a very difficult environment.
Operator this completes our prepared remarks and let's move to the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions]  We'll go first today to Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> So just jump in I guess to the U.K.
The higher loss severity there the paid incidence that was described can we get more color around what's driving that.
And is that the result potentially of lack of return to work ability by workers there? Good morning Randy.
Jack do you want to pick up on Randy's question? Yes it really wasn't a result of a lack of return to work.
In fact during the quarter our recoveries were very solid so the return to work -- it was around the initial claim decision.
We get claims in the door.
We go through the process of deciding whether the claim meets our definition of disability or not.
As we went through that process we had an abnormally high level of approved claims and a lower level of declined claims.
So it's sort of mix of approved and declined.
And the average size on the approvals was elevated whereas the average size on the declines was abnormally low.
So we think it's pure volatility.
It's not a reflection of the economy or any claim trend that we can see.
We'd liken it to throwing 4 coins in the air and they all show up on tails.
It doesn't happen very often that all the variants go in the same direction and it doesn't really say much about what we expect in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
But it's not I guess just to be clear it's not an issue of increased claim incidents.
It's just same number of claims that skewed more towards high cost non-denial situation? Yes.
In fact year-to-date our submitted claim incidents or the incidents of claims coming through our door is down year-to-date.
In fact in every quarter of 2011 submitted incidents has been below the year-ago quarter in 2010.
So the submitted claim volumes are behaving very well.
It's just a fluke around the ones that were provable versus declinable? We'll go next to Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for Kevin.
If you could maybe talk about pricing trends.
We've heard from several of your competitors that they intend to raise prices in the disability market.
I'm wondering if you have actually seen pricing improve? And then second for Jack if you could just talk about how competitors are behaving in the market.
You've obviously been raising prices.
Have you seen competitors follow through or have you not seen that because your sales results sort of suggest that other companies might still be at lower price points than where you guys are? Thanks Jimmy.
Kevin take the first piece of that? Yes I'd say prices seem to be maybe hardening a bit particularly in the core markets.
A number of carriers have expressed the need to either adjust their discount rates or to raise their rates to adjust for claim volatility.
And I think we've seen some of that coming through during the third quarter.
I wouldn't say it's a significant element but it's at least I think useful to us in terms of maybe some hardening in the marketplace making it a little bit easier to place renewals and to maintain existing business.
So yes a little bit harder in the core market I'd say.
Thanks Kevin.
Jack do you want to pick up on the U.K.
piece of that? Yes I think it took a while to happen but I think we're showing some signs of hardening in the market although our sales were down for the third quarter they were pretty much in line with what our expectations were.
The other positive note is we're continuing to accelerate our renewal program.
Since it's getting stronger and so has improved throughout the year and you've seen that reflected in our earned premium line.
We've also heard of a couple of different competitors that have recently announced to the brokerage community that they're rolling out their own renewal programs so there are signs that the pricing environment in the U.K.
is reacting to the economic environment and improving.
Research Division</strong> And then if we think about -- I think you've just recently started an ad campaign but penetration rates in the U.K.
market are actually pretty low.
Are you expecting that to move up over the next few years and have you seen any move in that direction as you've started to like raise awareness of the product? We just started the ad campaign It's been very favorably received by the market.
If people haven't seen it it's on backup plan Unum on YouTube.
We have seen -- we have been deepening penetration a larger portion of our sales coming -- is coming from deepening penetration on existing customers which is consistent with our strategy.
We're also encouraged by our interaction with the brokerage community because more and more of our key brokers are talking about that as a key growth strategy for 2012.
We'll go next to Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to see if you guys could comment just a little bit more in terms of lowering the discount on the new claims.
I guess given the margin you guys still have and the cushion relative to the target? Rick do you want to pick up on that? Yes when you look at what we did on the quarter one of the things that we would've talked about this last quarter we do have a pretty significant margin.
It gives us a lot of flexibility in terms of how we go through that.
When we look at pricing in the marketplace we have to be reflective of the environment that we're in.
And we chose this quarter to actually lower the discount rate by 25 basis points notwithstanding the fact that we still maintain a significant margin.
In fact on the quarter it went up by a couple of basis points.
But as we take it into our new claim discount rates and as we ultimately take it into the market we do need to reflect what's going on in the environment with regard to interest rates.
So the flexibility has not changed at all but I think that we are reflective of the severe drop we saw even since the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I guess in terms of interest rates in sort of the ILTC book you guys pointed to sort of persistency remaining high loss trends higher.
I mean how should we be thinking about the reserves you have set aside for that book of business a potential need to maybe strengthen those or write-off back? And then along those lines what's the opportunity given that you're not writing any more new business there to maybe move that to a closed block? Rick you want to take on that? Sure.
Just a few thoughts in LTC.
I think it's important to paint the whole picture.
I think we've been pretty open about the challenges in this business.
Like the rest of the industry we have seen low loss rate in the product.
It caused us to build reserves faster than we would have initially thought.
And that is mostly in the individual LTC product line which I think you did specify.
We stopped selling that a few years ago and we've been taking pricing actions as I mentioned to stabilize that loss ratio and I gave you through those details in my prepared comments.
What we have been seeing over the last couple of quarters there's some pressure on the loss trends which we'll handle in the same way with regard to pricing actions.
But it will take time for those pricing actions to take hold.
I think the bigger change we saw in the quarter was the sharp move down particularly 30-year treasuries dropped almost 150 basis points.
In this line like any line that makes it more tough on a long-tailed insurance-type product.
So the product is still profitable but I think we've been clear it's going to be a difficult product to manage in today's environment.
We'll go next to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a few Jack I guess maybe this is a semantic issue but I'm just trying to figure this out.
I mean you're talking about severity being up.
That's -- in my mind that's usually an indicator of just being one of those things.
You take claims submission the acceptance is -- the actual submissions are down the acceptances are up.
I mean like I said maybe it's semantic but that to me would seem to indicate that frequency is actually up.
What could drive that difference? I wouldn't suggest actually that frequency was up.
Severity was up this quarter.
Year-to-date our acceptances are down.
Our paid claims are down and our submitted claims are down.
So we had volatility this quarter.
The severity was a combination of just as you're working through the claims more of the claims were medically justified.
We had a lot of cancer claims during the quarter that are pretty clear cut.
And actually I'd suggest that it's just the opposite of what you would expect with an economically-driven trend because if you had an economically-driven trend you'd expect submitted claim volumes to rise as economic pressures rose.
You'd expect more of the claims that you've got were actually declinable and not medically justified.
So although your submitted claims would rise your paid claims would rise less quickly and your acceptance rate would actually lower.
What we saw in this quarter was just the opposite of that.
Submitted claims were down year-over-year and our acceptance rate was up because the claims that we did make decisions on in the quarter were justified medical claims.
So I do think a lot of it is just a lot of things lined up against us in one direction.
Some of them go back and forth.
It's unusual to have them all point in the same direction like that at once.
And we saw that begin to subside toward the end of the quarter and don't expect it to continue into the fourth quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then if I could add just a couple of more quickies.
Rick maybe you could talk about what should we be thinking about the tax rate on a go forward basis or at least for the fourth quarter? And maybe Randy I think you touched on -- there was a benefit that you had in some older policies that you no longer have.
Was that unlimited chemo? Rick why don't you pick up on the tax rate and then maybe I'll do the question about the Colonial one we may move that to Randy which ever I'll let you handle that.
Yes.
On the tax rate in the quarter we reported just over 30%.
We did benefit from a tax rate that was affected in the U.K.
which had an impact on our deferred tax liabilities which brought that down.
So the 30% if you back that out right around 32% I think is probably a reasonable number.
That's down from where it's been in the past because we do have some low income housing tax credits but 32% is a pretty good range as you look going forward.
And then your question specifically around the policies affected yes and that was correct.
It was the unlimited chemo and those type of products.
We'll go next to Mark Finkelstein with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a clarification in the U.K.
I guess based on what you're seeing in early Q4 and I guess Jack how you're describing the claims.
I mean is it your expectation that the U.K.
normalizes and we should be thinking about loss ratios kind of in line with what we've seen in the past or is there anything that you're seeing whether its severity or what have you that maybe it's going to be elevated? That would be my expectation.
Research Division</strong> Okay so normal then.
And I guess the only -- just a clarification I know -- I mean you're relatively new to the U.K.
you've obviously kind of made some changes over there.
Is there anything that's changed in the claim handling practices that may have driven that ratio of accepted versus submitted claims to change at all? No there really hasn't.
In fact -- I think we've made changes in our claims organization that has gone in the other direction in terms of shoring up the claims organization.
We actually for the quarter had a pretty strong recovery quarter.
So our ability to get people back to work was actually  pretty solid for the quarter.
This was all around that initial decision about accepting or rejecting liability.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally one follow-up on Long-term Care.
The interest adjusted loss ratio on kind of a rolling fourth quarter average has trended up pretty meaningfully.
And I know you're putting in place rate increases.
I guess the real question is are the rate increases that you've been filing are they enough and what is the strategy around that if they aren't? Rick do you want to pick up on that one? Sure.
When you look at where our loss ratios interest-adjusted loss ratio is in the quarter it is a little bit higher than what we expected going into the process.
I think the expectation was certainly around the persistency causing some pressure and that's really what the pricing actions were targeted towards.
We'll have to continue to look at what the right pricing level is for these policies given what we're seeing both on persistency as well as the loss trends and reflect that going forward.
I think it's going to be an ongoing discussion when we look at this block of business.
Research Division</strong> When would be the next opportunity I guess to try to submit additional rate increases if the decision was that it's not purely a persistency issue but also an incidence issue? In case we have to breakdown every specific stay.
I think there's a regular process with each day that are actually going through so I don't know Mark what's the real theme around that.
There's an ongoing strategy I think Rick as you said and I think Kevin has said in previous calls they just continually move through the book and almost once you've been through it you start again actually.
So I think that strategy I think remains the right one with that individual Long-term Care block.
We'll go next to Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
You're still using a 6% to 12% EPS range for the full year which is very wide given that we've had 3 quarters in and suggests if my math is right sort of a $0.68 to $0.84 range for Q4.
I mean $0.84 seems challenging.
In prior years you targeted like lower middle part of the range or give us some color.
Plus the fact that you haven't suggested that there are a lot of wildcards going into Q4 and you just want to make sure the visibility -- the signal at the visibility is a little murky going into the fourth quarter? I would say -- Rick why don't you pick up on that.
I think less than that and actually I think as you know Bob really a couple of years ago we began the practice of getting off a quarterly guidance and getting to an annual guidance.
So every Investor Day as you know we break down our business into component pieces and share some outlook for the component pieces as well as the bottom line.
So I think what you're seeing is a continuation of staying with an annual sort of set of target.
And really I don't think you should interpret that as being having lack of confidence in the fourth quarter.
I think we've got some pretty good visibility into the fourth quarter.
Okay but one follow-up could you just expand on what the claims incidence increase was within Long-term Care? Sure Rick you want to pick up on that? Yes.
I look at it in terms of the lost trends that it did increase.
So incidence is one piece of that.
We've had a couple of quarters of building incidence.
I think we've also had lower mortality in that block which goes back to almost a persistency-type element.
So it was really multiple areas nothing specific that I'd point to.
I would note that this is a block of business where we actually have very low amounts of claims that come through.
It's still fairly early in the block particularly as you get to some of our newer policy years.
So we're dealing with the data that we are seeing today.
We'll take our next question from Jeffrey Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> A clarification.
I think Rick mentioned something about [Indiscernible] voluntary and I didn't catch that.
What was that the case and [indiscernible] amount please? Sure.
Rick why don't you pick...
The dock and lock [ph] that we saw was involuntary in our Interest-Sensitive Whole Life business FAS 97 unlocking was roughly $5 million in the quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Was that pretax or? Pretax.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Pretax okay.
And then elsewhere in the company where there are any other that kind of balance sheet-type adjustments like that in the quarter? There was actually I should mention in that line in the same -- supplementary and voluntary line IDI block recently issued also given some higher persistency in the block we actually had slower amortization in there.
And that was $4 million to $5 million as well.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> $4 million to $5 million okay.
And I'm wondering in terms of what should be the expectation for U.S.
group disability in other words we had a number of years where there was a clear guidance about loss ratio improvement and you delivered on that.
Then we transitioned to a period of kind of a flat loss ratio expectations and you delivered very clearly against that.
I think last year the loss ratio was flat as a pancake.
We seen a couple of quarters now very slight sequential deterioration even if you x out the change in the discount rate.
Are we entering into a period now where we should expect a little movement there or are we still in the flat period? Rick you want to pick up on that maybe ask Kevin also to supplement of that? Yes I think that what you said is right.
The discount rate was the biggest move that you saw in the quarter.
I think we've been saying all along there has been volatility so we saw a little bit of that in the quarter.
We'll have to see how that settles back down as we head into the fourth quarter.
But that slight uptick is probably something that we'll continue to see in that range.
But we're still talking about pretty small movements within the overall loss ratio.
And Kevin you might want to pick up on that too because I think the big difference today versus where we were in the past was that the profile of our book of business is very different and obviously with a lot more core market business in there.
All right thanks.
Jeff yes I think our expectations around the loss ratio is still fairly flat in an -- plus or minus in around the 85% range.
We're a little bit above that now primarily because of the discount rate move.
We'll be moving prices up in the mid single-digit range on both in-force and new business and that will mitigate that effect and actually get back some of the cost of the discount rate.
For 3 consecutive years we've had kind of a submitted incidence spike in the third quarter than then has flattened out and declined during the subsequent fourth and first quarters.
And that happened in third quarter of '09 third quarter of '10 as well.
And so as we saw it happen here in third quarter of 2011 I think we felt it appropriate to bake into our price increases and renewals for next year not only the discount rate change but also the expectation that we might see that same flow.
We've also had a little bit of volatility upward volatility in incidence and prevalence on the STD line.
And although we haven't seen much of that change in terms of flow through to the LTD line we're cautiously watching that as well and we think right now in this marketplace is a good time to move our rates upward much in the same way that our competitors are.
So you put all that together and I'd say we're really effective at placing our renewals as you know.
We're effective at adjusting our sales forces' attention towards where we go hunting if you will.
Making sure we pay attention to sales and lower volatility segments.
And also as you know we've been ramping up our voluntary sales which don't have the same economic impact or risk as the LTDs.
So all in all I think we're well-positioned both on the growth front and mix of business front as Tom mentioned.
But also I'd say the loss ratio ought to stay it's pretty stable in and around that 85 plus or minus range.
.
And we'll go next to Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question relates to the U.K.
I'm trying to understand still I mean we talked a lot about it but I'm still trying to understand the outlook here and the reason that I don't fully understand yet is that I believe Rick said we'll have to take a wait and see attitude.
And I believe Jack expressed optimism about a return to a lower loss ratio.
I guess my first question is which one is it.
Are we going to take a wait and see attitude or are we thinking we've got to go back to normal in the fourth quarter? And relatedly if you are optimistic about a return to a lower loss ratio what's the basis for that optimism? In other words I understand that you sort of ruled out the economic considerations.
But because it may be something else maybe there's a morbidity issue that you're not fully understanding.
Why is it the right answer here we're just going to have to wait and see and it's too early to declare victory? Let me make a comment then I'll ask actually Rick to pick up a little then.
I think both of you have heard Rick and Jack as they spoke about the performance in the U.K.
use the word volatility.
And I think you can't ignore that actually.
This is -- the U.K.
business is our smallest of our 3 businesses whether you measure that by capital whether you measure that by premium whether you measure that by earnings contribution.
And what that means is obviously you can have months quarters and weeks obviously given the nature of this business which just simply affects your overall results for the quarter because of the relatively smaller block of business that operation is.
And so again I think what you're hearing us say first and foremost is when you have a quarter like this and as Jack went through some of the assessment in that quarter I think we clearly view it not being sort of systemic.
We clearly believe it's not a carryover to some of the European issues.
We clearly don't see any significant trend here.
And for the moment we stated that more of volatile issue which again I think as Jack alluded to we began to see the October results begin to tap back quite nicely actually.
So I guess I want to put this whole thing in context which is when you see a smaller business like this our business does have elements of volatility from time to time.
Some of our bigger operations like the Unum US for example you're not going to see as much because it's a bigger base of business as opposed to the U.K.
which is dramatically smaller.
So with that I'd ask maybe Rick or Jack if anything you'd like to add to that? Well I'll actually probably clarify because this is my comments which I think was off.
And I think that I share very much what Tom and Jack was saying and I do believe it would be volatility and that volatility I expect -- it's not a wait and see attitude I expect to see that come back again in the fourth quarter.
So I'd be very clear about that.
We'll take our next question from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions if I could.
You've talked to us in the past about the natural growth of your business normal employment reasonable wage growth environment.
Can you just update us on what you think you're seeing in terms of pressure given sort of stubbornly high unemployment levels and I think most recently a lack of really any wage growth? Yes thank you John.
Kevin do you want to pick up on John's question? Yes.
John we're seeing the same pressure we've seen in each of the last couple of years.
I think a few years ago we said that we typically saw something in the 2-plus percent range in terms of upward help tailwind if you will on the top line from wage inflation and employment growth as well as growth in our in-force accounts from NBOC.
And during 2009 and 2010 we actually had a negative impact.
I think in 2009 it was like a minus 2% effect in 2010 it was maybe a minus 1% or so.
Coming into this year we thought we might be on the plus side.
And it started out that way but as the years gone on it's basically flat even trending slightly negative perhaps.
So we've got that same kind of effect of a loss of tailwind in -- no headwind at the moment but no tailwind either.
Research Division</strong> Okay so -- and I guess my -- I guess the way to think about that with some mid single-digit sort of price increases for next year at least on a good portion of your book and sustained reasonably strong persistency levels that we still see some premium growth in 2012 despite the lack of any help from this particular item? Yes I think we'll see some very modest -- very modest one percentage kind of earned premium growth something like that.
I think primarily driven by solid persistency.
Some effective renewal placement that gooses it a little bit and then a strong sales year during 2011 that will contribute to 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just turning to the long-term care business and the rate increases that you've gone through.
I mean you gave us some good data on the States and the percentage of expected.
Can you just remind us of how that should earn through your book of business and if 88% of what you've been filing for can you give us a sense for what that is in percentage terms on the rate? Rick would you pick that up please? Yes It is our intention though is that rate increase we expect to see somewhere in the $25 million to $30 million range of premium that will ultimately come through it's like you'd just sense that 88% is of those levels.
And we're new it's still not done yet and so we'll have to see how that actually play out.
Research Division</strong> And what's the timeframe that we should think if we're getting to -- if we've got right now 88% of $25 million to $30 million does that all come through in 2012 does it come through over a longer period than that? No it's going to be over a longer period  and it will probably come through mid -- starting 2012 and through the middle towards the end of 2013.
It takes some time.
We'll take our next question from Thomas Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a quick one on the U.K.
and then circle back on Long-term Care.
So the expectation for the U.K.
just so I'm clear is that we get back to roughly around 2Q levels call it low to mid $50 million range or is there just some uncertainty volatility expected there just based on what you're seeing more just looking out what should we expect for 4Q? Rick you want to touch the U.K.
outlook? Sure I'd just give you a sense such as as that volatility comes back in with loss ratio it'll come back down.
We're around the 70% range.
And you would see it kind of ticking up closer to that $50 million number.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And just on the Long-term Care just so I'm clear as to how we should be thinking about it.
If you look at where the interest adjusted benefit ratio has gone up to 86% now.
If we assume claims remained kind of where they are today just a natural increase in the interest adjusted loss ratio based on low lapse rates.
And assuming interest rates remain where they are today approximately I would expect the interest adjusted benefit ratio to climb toward high 80s to 90% maybe.
Is that a level with which would precipitate a reserve charge? So that's question number one.
And then question number 2 assuming that this is a potential scenario to think about are you guys still comfortable moving ahead with your buyback.
Because I assume that if there was a GAAP reserve strengthening there might also be a statutory impact.
But any light you can shed on that would be appreciated? Rick do you want to touch on that? Yes.
I think when you look at the -- where the loss ratio will trend towards and I think we said last quarter we expect kind of mid 80-type level.
I did mention we had some loss pressure.
We'll have to see how that plays out next quarter.
We don't expect that necessarily that we'll continue at that level.
And then it would be offset by the pricing increases so you've got a few dynamics going on in terms of what's going to impact the loss ratio.
That product line is still profitable.
And so as a result of that we'll have to continue to monitor how it continues to go and even as we head into the fourth quarter and go through experience studies it's one that we pay very close attention to.
And Rick I think as it relates to the share buyback I think we expect to be in the market in the fourth quarter.
Just to remind everybody though fourth quarter last year we have fewer opportunities to purchase given the staggering of Investor Day and things like that the volumes are going to be down but I think at this point we fully expect to be in the market and continue to buy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I shouldn't be thinking about this from the standpoint of being a potential large statutory drain at least not over the near term? Yes we'll lay it out at Investor Day in a couple of weeks our capital plans and even to result of all that.
But I would probably save that discussion for then but we don't expect any radical change around our statutory cash flow.
We'll go next to Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any -- do you think you'd care to venture in terms of customer end markets where you might have seen an uptick in frequency either in the U.S.
or U.K.? And then secondly any change in behavior out of the Social Security Administration in their willingness to approve disability claims? Kevin do you want to just talk a little bit about the U.S.
piece including maybe the Social Security side and then maybe Jack can connect on the U.K.? Yes will do.
Mark nothing particularly noticeable on a by industry segment basis.
This quarter manufacturing incidence rates were up a little bit transportation incidence rates were up a little bit retail was up a little bit.
Education was down a little bit.
Data processing was down a little bit.
That's the same kind of volatility we see every quarter we didn't see anything sort of radical and I don't expect really to see anything too significant either.
We always keep our eyes on it anyway we adjust our prices accordingly for those segments that seem to be behaving a little bit out of line.
We either increase rates or shift our sales  focus away from it or both.
And on the Social Security Administration no I haven't seen much change at all our offset levels continue to be at very strong levels.
Jack do you want just to talk also from the U.K.
side? Yes I think from the U.K.
side we haven't seen anything from any consumer markets.
U.K.
is a little bit different market than the U.S.
and note that we are -- we don't have the same penetration in customers that's largely senior executives and senior managers.
So our book tends to be a little bit more homogeneous even though -- even if it is split by industry because it's largely covering upper management and so I think that's one of the reasons why we have tend to seen more stability through economic downturns than perhaps the U.S.
market has.
We'll go next to Colin Devine of Citi.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I guess first for Kevin.
You had some very strong voluntary sales this quarter.
In fact I think your third quarter was a record.
But first quarter is being obviously the strongest one but very strong third quarter.
That thing's applied in the face of all the other trends you're seeing for your business and perhaps you can telling us what's selling so much? Second and I don't want to beat a dead horse here on Long-term Care.
Rick.
I appreciate you said it's profitable but I think it'd be helpful to know just how profitable it is.
We're getting really close to the line here? And following up on Tom Gallagher's question is not just reserves but it's also what's the size dock asset backing that line and how close are we getting to having to impair that because certainly I assume you're projecting we're into a period of a lower long-term rates given that the discount rate action you took on group disability.
So I'd like to understand a little bit more just the outlook on that? And then finally for Tom Watjen.
Unum there was I guess chatter in the media that you might have been a bit around the RS Life property they're just out there looking at some M&amp;A as well or do you have any comments on that? Sure.
Will do.
Kevin you want to pick up the first one on voluntary.
But maybe also if I could just maybe ask you to speak to the small commercial market too because there are pockets of growth that are quite visible in your business? Thanks Tom.
Colin on the VV side first of all I don't think it's any particular product on the portfolio.
I think it's the whole portfolio.
And I think what it reflects maybe is a combination of things.
Our strategic emphasis our continued strategic emphasis on ramping up the voluntary market given the trends that we see in employee benefits in general.
And the shift from if you will define benefits to define contribution at the employer level I think it also reflects our expanded field focus.
If you recall over the last 2 years we've expanded the portfolio of all of our core market reps to include both group and voluntary products is part of our Simply Unum initiative.
And in fact during this quarter 70% of our group sales included an attached voluntary sale.
So really strong integration and strategic emphasis on the part of our field force and I think that's for the most part what's driving it.
And you couple that with a strong 13% growth in our core market group business with -- if you think about that growth in 13% you think about voluntary growing and you think about the increasing integration.
I think that's what's driving the growth in voluntary.
Research Division</strong> What sort of ROE targets are you pricing for? It's hard to sort of parse that out given IDI and LTC within that segment? We priced voluntary low to the mid-teens.
Thanks Kevin.
Rick do you want to pick up on the Long-term Care piece of Colin's question? Sure I'll try -- Colin I'll try and give you a couple more dimensions to that when we talk about the business it is profitable.
I would tell you that the returns on that business are kind of a low single-digit type ROEs.
I think we've talked about that in the past.
And given the pressure that's -- it remains at those levels which we'll try and combat with pricing actions.
It's around the sizing of it you have a reserve balance on that line of about $4.5 billion and the deck[ph] asset is about $300 million.
And so those are all the pieces that we watch in terms of going through and analyzing the changes that we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay and that would be your most Interest-Sensitive line right now right? I would say yes the most challenging line to put new cash flows behind given the long-term nature of it yes.
And Colin to your last piece.
As you know no surprise we really can't talk about specific acquisitions.
But I do think just a couple points I'd make and certainly we look forward to embellishing these at Investor Day.
But I think first off we like the 3 businesses that they were in.
We see good growth opportunities.
Kevin talked about the growth we're seeing in the small commercial and voluntary.
Randy had good small commercial growth in his market and obviously the U.K.
is going through some adjustments.
But I want to always start when we talk about the M&amp;A was the fact we actually like our 3 businesses.
I think we've got some good prospects especially if you look beyond some of the economic challenges that I think everybody is facing right now.
Having said that as you know also we've got a pretty strong financial foundation from which to not just support our businesses but we generate a fair amount of excess capital.
And we have over the last couple of years been much more active looking at acquisitions that could fit within our framework of how we assess risk how we think about where we want to play in the marketplace and not get too far afield from the things that we know well.
Which means we're looking at things that extend our product focus extend our geographic focus and I would say especially in this environment even though there's not a lot of things out there I think the marketplace views us as one of the people who frankly are a player and therefore we do get a chance to look at some things.
As you can see though we haven't done anything which means we have a very high bar that we've set for ourselves in terms of doing things that could complement the things we do in place right now.
And frankly measure any acquisition against our existing standalone plan with redeployment of capital which creates a pretty high threshold.
But we're in the flow and it's always better to be able to look at things and say no and walk away than it is to miss something that maybe it'd be a nice complement to our business and our financial goals.
Research Division</strong> Okay and by geographic since you mentioned it.
That does mean that you would consider outside of the United States? We would absolutely yes.
Provided it's got the characteristics that we are looking for in terms of the products and the marketplace dynamics that obviously we're very comfortable with in the U.S.
and the U.K.
So it's got to have those characteristics but we would look outside the U.S.
yes.
We'll now take a follow-up from Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
The sovereign exposure the $1.5 billion or so that you have in the portfolio can you maybe just maybe break that down by geography particularly focused on Europe? We can Chris and was it with Tom scans through his document here so we can get that in a second.
Why don't you ask your second question while [indiscernible] Tom just real quick.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Tom you made some comments in terms of sort of the open window period for share repurchase in the fourth quarter being smaller than other quarters.
And if you look at you mentioned in the release the attractive share price kind of taking advantage of that in the third quarter.
Is there potential to maybe do an ASR or something like that in fourth quarter given where shares are today? Chris let me pass that to Rick and ask Rick to speak to that.
Yes I think that all tools are available to us in terms of how we buy back our stock.
It does come back to the attractiveness of where the price is.
We have the capital and the ability and as we showed  in the third quarter we'll take advantage of those windows.
I think that we prefer to be in the open market buying back our shares.
And so with a limited number of windows that may in fact be the case.
But any big movements ASRs are certainly available to us.
Chris on the international exposure looking at the aggregation of Portugal Ireland Italy Greece and Spain we have no direct sovereign exposure.
We do have on a book value basis about $545 million of corporate exposure.
And just looking through the list there are only 2 securities of the probably 20 or so that we have positions in that are below investment grade and both of those are in the BB range.
And those 2 together would be about $30 million again of the $545 million so everything else is investment grade corporates in those countries.
Our final question today will be a follow-up from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> You guys were the only ones on the docket today.
And by the way I can't tell you how much I appreciate that versus tonight.
The follow-up question I have for you is about the U.K.
Just thinking about the economic backdrop there maybe setting aside the volatility of the quarterly submitted and that sort of thing.
Just given the increasing pressure downward pressure potential for the U.K.
to fall back into recession unemployment rates seem to be rising not stabilizing just quite yet.
Can you give us a sense maybe Jack can give us a sense for the pricing environment there? I know you guys were first movers.
You said maybe you're seeing the market move now but can you give us a sense for sizing the pricing actions that you've been taking? Jack do you want to pick up on that? Yes I would.
One of the things I'd point out is that the public sector is driving a lot of the unemployment in the U.K.
currently and  we are not involved in the public sector.
We don't currently ensure it.
So we're a little bit immune to some of that driver.
From the perspective of the pricing environment the market had been softening through 2008 to 2010.
We turned the corner on it in the second half of last year.
We paid some price for that from a new sales perspective.
And initially particularly early in the year from our persistency perspective that persistency outlook has improved.
There are competitors in the marketplace with renewals as well.
People are reacting to the low interest rate environment.
And I think there are even some small signs that perhaps picked at the large case.
The market may be getting firmer there as well.
So we're encouraged by where we are.
We've accelerated our renewal program through the year.
We've had better results in the second half of the year than we did in the first.
And so I think there are some pretty positive signs going into 2012.
Not that it's going to be easy mind you and there's still pressure from a growth perspective with the lack of natural growth and salary increases.
But we're positive about that direction the U.K.
market is going.
Research Division</strong> Jack maybe just relative to Kevin's comments on mid-single digits.
Pricing in the U.S.
any ballpark figure you can give us at least in terms of the U.K.? I would say a similar level in the U.K.
Actually thank you all for taking the time to join us this morning.
And we certainly look forward to seeing hopefully many of you at our Investor Day meeting on November 9 to 16 in New York and please contact Tom White or anybody from the Investor Relations staff if you have any questions about our Investor Day meeting.
And with that operator this will conclude our third quarter call.
Thank you gentlemen.
Ladies and gentlemen we thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Unum Group Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
And now for opening remarks and the introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Tom White.
Please go ahead sir.
Great thank you operator.
And good morning everyone and welcome to the fourth quarter 2011 analyst and investor conference call for Unum Group.
Our remarks this morning will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2010 and in our subsequently filed Forms 10-Q.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website at unum.com.
I remind you that statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are being made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found on our website also in the Investors section.
Participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen President and CEO; and Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; and also our business segment presidents Kevin McCarthy for Unum US; Randy Horn for Colonial Life; and Jack McGarry for Unum UK.
And now I'll turn the call over to Tom Watjen Tom? Thank you Tom and good morning.
I want to touch on 3 areas in my comments this morning before handing things over to Tom and Rick for more details on our quarter.
These include our solid underlying operating results for the fourth quarter and full year 2011 our decision to exit the long-term care business and finally our outlook for 2012 which is as you see from our release has not changed from what we outlined at our November investor meeting.
First regarding our fourth quarter and full year operating results.
I'm very pleased with the results and the momentum that implies for 2012.
For the quarter we reported operating income excluding special items of $0.78 per share versus $0.66 per share in the fourth quarter last year or an 18% increase.
For the full year we reported operating income excluding special items at $2.95 per share against $2.69 per share in 2010 or a 10% increase.
We continue to benefit from both the solid operating performance across all of our core operating businesses including the improvement in the fourth quarter results for our Unum UK business and from our lower share count as we repurchased 25.4 million shares this past year.
It was generally a solid quarter across all of our operating areas.
At Unum US we continue to see stable risk results across all lines of business while also growing the business lines we have targeted for growth.
I'm especially pleased with the very strong sales and premium growth in our core group and voluntary businesses.
The Unum US business segment which now excludes the Long-term Care line produced solid operating earnings growth of 7% in 2011 and a 13% return on equity.
Unum UK's operating results recovered nicely from a weaker-than-expected third quarter as claims activity returned to more normal levels.
We are also encouraged by the pricing trends we are seeing in the U.K.
which has opened up more sales opportunities than we have seen in previous quarters.
New sales grew 15% this quarter in persistency which was below year-ago levels remained above our expectations.
Despite a difficult environment in the U.K.
and the third quarter shortfall Unum UK produced a 20% return on equity in 2011.
At Colonial Life results remained steady with operating earnings rebounding nicely from last year's fourth quarter.
Premium growth was just under 6% this quarter.
Sales trends remained positive with overall growth of 4% this quarter and 8% growth within the core commercial market.
Margins remained very strong in this business segment and this business segment produced a return on equity in 2011 of 16.5%.
In addition to these strong operating quarter results our investment performance in the quarter remains solid.
The credit quality of the portfolio remains strong and we continue to effectively manage through this difficult low-interest rate environment.
Finally our capital position remains very strong even after the actions taken in the fourth quarter which I'll discuss in a minute.
We closed 2011 with risk-based capital at our traditional U.S.
insurance companies slightly above the 400% level and withholding company cash and marketable securities at $756 million.
Our capital position continues to be an asset and gives us a great deal of financial flexibility.
Now turning to my second point our decision to exit the Long-term Care business.
Hopefully this is not a surprise to anyone.
As we indicated back at our investor meeting in November we've been reviewing the Long-term Care business for some time to determine if it fits with our business and financial objectives.
As you can see from our announcement last night based on our review we have elected to discontinue selling any new group Long-term Care policies and place all of our Long-term Care business into a closed block much the way we handled our older Individual Disability business back in 2004.
While there is no doubt a tremendous market need for Long-term Care coverage in an extended period of low interest rates and at a relatively immature product with difficulty in projecting future loss costs it simply does not have the risk and return characteristics we find so attractive in our other businesses.
You can see from our release that we took a $561 million after-tax GAAP charge this quarter associated with this decision.
Rick will touch on this further but I would just say that it's important to keep in mind that this action has no direct impact on our statutory capital position or the cash generation capacity of our company.
Also remember that a portion of that cost is the write-off of DAC a portion of which would have been written off with the accounting change to be implemented in the first quarter.
With the decision to exit the Long-term Care business which represented less than 5% of our operating earnings our strategy is to focus our attention on our core businesses which as you can see from our fourth quarter and full year results are performing very well.
These businesses offer both good growth opportunities and favorable profitability and have the risk characteristics we and I think the market find very attractive.
My last comment relates to our 2012 outlook which despite some serious external challenges particularly low interest rates remains the same as we discussed at our November Investor Day meeting.
That is operating earnings growth of 6% to 12% with targeted capital management levels of 375% to 400% for risk-based capital and $500 million to $800 million of holding company liquidity.
We expect capital management to remain a source of value to our shareholders and continue to plan on $500 million of share repurchases in 2012.
In summary I'm very pleased with our operating results this quarter and for the full year.
We continue to have a balance sheet and capital position which gives us tremendous flexibility.
It's nice to have the Long-term Care decision behind us and our strategic focus even more centered on businesses which I continue to believe as evidenced by our 2011 results and our 2012 outlook present tremendous opportunities for our company and shareholders.
Now I'll ask Tom to provide an overview of our operating results this quarter.
Tom? Great.
Thanks Tom.
As you can see from our press release yesterday afternoon we reported a net loss for the fourth quarter of 2011 of $425.4 million or $1.45 per diluted common share.
This compares to net income in the year-ago quarter of $225.8 million or $0.71 per diluted common share.
There are 4 items which are detailed in our press release and will be discussed more fully by Rick that help bridge from the reported net loss to operating earnings of $0.78 per diluted common share for this year's fourth quarter.
First in the Long-term Care business line we strengthened reserves and wrote off the deferred acquisition costs.
Together these 2 charges decreased fourth quarter net income by $561.2 million or $1.92 per diluted common share.
Second in our Individual Disability Closed Block line of business we've strengthened reserves which decreased net income by $119.3 million or $0.41 per common share.
Third we recorded net tax benefits of $22.7 million or $0.08 per common share resulting from a reduction of taxes from a settlement of tax issues from tax years 1996 to 2004 net of taxes paid on subsidiary dividends.
And fourth results for the fourth quarter 2011 include net realized after-tax investment gains of $4.8 million or $0.02 per diluted common share compared to net realized after-tax investment gains of $17.2 million or $0.05 per diluted common share in the fourth quarter of 2010.
So excluding these items after-tax operating income was $227.6 million for this quarter or $0.78 per diluted common share compared to $208.6 million or $0.66 per diluted common share in the year-ago quarter.
You will notice that with the fourth quarter we have reclassified our segment reporting.
The results of the Long-term Care line of business have been reclassified from Unum US Supplemental and Voluntary into the Closed Block segment.
In addition we have reclassified several other smaller insurance products no longer actively marketed and this includes the individual life and corporate-owned life insurance reinsurance pools and management operations group pension health insurance and individual annuities from the Corporate and Other segment also to the Closed Block segment.
In prior periods segment results have been reclassified to reflect these changes and we've included those in the fourth quarter statistical supplement.
So now turning to the operating segments Unum US operating income increased 7.5% to $208.6 million in the fourth quarter driven by strong growth in the Supplemental and Voluntary line of business and generally stable results in the Group Disability and Group Life and AD&amp;D lines of business.
Within Unum US operating income in the Group Disability line was $77.2 million in the fourth quarter compared to $77 million last year at a lower level of premium income and an increase in the benefit ratio were generally offset by lower expenses.
Premium income declined by 0.6% to $511.1 million in the quarter largely due to the ongoing effects of the weak economy on headcount and salary growth at existing customers.
The Group Disability benefit ratio increased slightly to 84.7% from 84.2% in the year-ago quarter due primarily to a reduction in the discount rate for group long-term disability new claim incurrals which was implemented in the third quarter of 2011.
Our submitted claim incidents and claim recovery experience was generally favorable in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to the year-ago quarter.
Within the Group Life and AD&amp;D line operating income increased 1.3% to $53.9 million in the fourth quarter benefiting from an increase in premium income which offset a slight uptick in the benefit ratio.
In the Supplemental and Voluntary line fourth quarter income increased 21.5% to $77.5 million.
The year-over-year improvement was driven primarily by solid growth in premium income 7.4% growth in the recently issued individual disability line and 8.4% growth in the voluntary benefits line and lower benefit ratios in each of these lines of business due to favorable risk experience.
Moving to Unum UK.
Operating income in this segment increased 11.6% to $53.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Operating income increased 12.1% in local currency.
While premium income in local currency declined fractionally in the fourth quarter the benefit ratio improved to 69.1% compared to 71.7% last year.
In wrapping up our core operations Colonial Life reported an 11.2% increase in operating income compared to the year-ago period driven by premium income growth of 5.7% and a lower benefit ratio.
The benefit ratio declined to 52.5% in the quarter compared to 53.4% in the same period last year due primarily to improved risk experience in the Accident Sickness and Disability line of business as well as stable risk trends in the Life and Cancer and Critical Illness lines.
Looking at the results of the Closed Block segment this quarter we reported a loss of $1 014 900 000 compared to operating income of $29 million in the year-ago quarter.
These results included the impacts of the Long-term Care reserve strengthening and DAC impairment in the Individual Disability reserve strengthening.
Adjusting for these items the Closed Block segment reported operating income of $32 million in the fourth quarter 2011.
And finally for the Corporate segment we reported an operating loss of $26.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $23.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Included in the other income in the Corporate segment is approximately $17 million of interest income which was related to the tax settlement.
But this was mostly offset by higher-than-usual level of corporate expenses totaling approximately $14 million related to increase in expense accruals and an increase in operating expenses related to corporate initiatives.
So now I'd like to turn the call over to Rick McKenney for further analysis of this quarter's results.
Great thank you Tom.
In my comments this morning I'll cover in greater detail the assumptions backing the financial actions taken in our Long-term Care and Individual Disability Closed Block businesses.
I'll also cover the operating trends in our core business operations which were quite encouraging this quarter combined with an update on our investment results and our capital strategy.
First on the actions we announced regarding our Long-term Care business.
As we discussed at our November investor meeting we have been reviewing our LTC business for some time and with the our fourth quarter release announced that we will discontinue new sales of group Long-term Care products and reclassify the entire Long-term Care business line to the Closed Block segment.
This decision recognized the difficult risk management characteristics of this product line but also will allow us to concentrate resources on our businesses with more favorable growth risk and return potential.
LTC has been a small contributor to our overall earnings.
As we strategically have moved this business to a Closed Block we also looked carefully at certain assumptions where we were seeing emerging pressure in the current environment.
As a result this reserve strengthening is reflective of areas where current conditions and future patterns have deteriorated.
First during the third quarter long-term interest rates fell precipitously with EU challenges actions by the Fed to lower long term rates and the Fed publicly stating its desire to keep interest rates low for a prolonged period of time.
While our current portfolio rate has held steady due to our interest rate hedges and limited new cash flows to invest exposure to interest rate risk over the intermediate term has increased.
As a result our best estimates now reflect how our discount rate might trend over the next 3 to 5 years.
This accounted for roughly half of the $560 million after-tax impact.
A second major factor was that new experience studies released by the Society of Actuaries mid-year in 2011 continue to show a declining trend in claim termination rates.
Long-term Care is a relatively young product and we have been a smaller player which limits our own credible experience.
So we used a blend of our own experience with industry data to set our reserve and pricing assumptions.
With this emerging industry data we modified our claim termination assumptions used in setting our reserves.
This accounts for the majority of the other half of the impact.
The before-tax GAAP accounting impact is $863 million or $290 million for the DAC piece of the impairment and $573 million for the reserve increase.
Again this only impacts our GAAP financial results and does not impact our statutory accounting which we already have on a more conservative basis.
As part of our Closed Block we intend to aggressively manage the Long-term Care business.
This will include continuing our practice of seeking rate increases on the inforce business where warranted and also exploring opportunities for capital management.
Also in the fourth quarter we increased reserves for the Closed Block Individual Disability business.
This reserve strengthening totaled $184 million or about 1.5% of the reserve base subsequent to the charge and impacted net income in the quarter by $119 million.
Unlike Long-term Care the driver of this reserve increase was very specific to this block of business.
The emerging experience we are seeing develop has shown a continued improvement of life expectancies for the older age longer duration disabled claimants which lengthens the time that a claimant will receive disability benefits.
Our claim to data has become more credible in recent periods and we have the majority of the data in these lines of business so we are now able with a higher degree of confidence to assess our own experience for older ages and our long-duration lifetime claim block.
There is very little industry experience for lifetime disability benefits as our insurance companies were the primary disability companies in the insurance industry at the time these products were offered.
By way of history these products were offered during the 1980s and early 1990s recent enough that claimants with lifetime benefits are just reaching these older ages.
As a result of these disabled claimants living longer we've adjusted our mortality assumptions.
This reserve charge only impacted our U.S.
GAAP results and did not impact the statutory results because our assumptions are already within the statutory prescribed assumptions.
So let me pause there for a second and move on to the quarter which we think was quite good and bodes well for 2012.
Moving on to operating results in the fourth quarter I'll start with Unum US.
It was a good quarter in many ways for the Unum US segment with operating earnings growth of 8% and solid risk experience as well as good sales growth in the core businesses we have targeted for growth.
For Group Disability we were encouraged by the improvement in the benefit ratio in the fourth quarter to 84.7% compared to the third quarter ratio of 85.5%.
Submitted and paid new claim incidence trends showed improvement between the third and fourth quarters and claim recovery trends remain favorable.
These positive trends offset the ongoing impact of the reduction in a new claim discount rate we made in the third quarter.
We made no additional change in the new claim discount rate this quarter and the margin between our portfolio yield and the aggregate discount rate was unchanged.
For the Group Life and AD&amp;D line results continue to remain stable and profit margins very healthy.
The benefit ratio is 70.7% for the fourth quarter was fractionally elevated from the third quarter and year-ago quarter but the earnings contribution was again solid at $53.9 million this quarter.
Looking to the Supplementary and Voluntary lines of Unum US we saw a very good overall earnings results driven by solid risk experience and premium growth.
Operating earnings increased by 21% on an 8% premium growth and the benefit ratio improved 51.9% from 54.4% in the year-ago quarter.
Unum UK's results showed a strong rebound from a challenging third quarter with operating earnings of $53.7 million or at GBP 34.2 million.
The unusual claims trends we experienced in the third quarter that negatively impacted results reverted back to more normal trends in the fourth quarter and the benefit ratio returned to a more normal level of 69.1% for the fourth quarter compared to 78.8% in the third quarter and 71.7% in the year-ago quarter.
And finally Colonial Life produced another good quarter as operating earnings increased 11% from a soft year-ago quarter with premium income increasing almost 6%.
The benefit ratio compared favorably with a year ago at 52.5% compared to 53.4% in the year-ago quarter.
Driven by improved risk experience in the Accident Sickness and Disability line and stable risk experience in the Cancer and Critical Illness lines of business.
So after what was an elevated third quarter across each of our businesses we saw risk experience for the fourth quarter settle down nicely.
Across the board we were also happy with our sales trends.
Sales trends within Unum US were quite encouraging with sales in total increasing 12% in the quarter.
Group Disability and Group Life combined showed 12% sales growth this quarter and 10% for the full year.
Within that sales in the under 2 000 life core market increased 10% for both the quarter and the full year and our mix between core and large case sales was approximately 70% core and 30% large case for the full year a very healthy mix for us.
Voluntary benefit sales were also strong increasing 11% for the quarter.
We continue to be encouraged by the pricing trends we see in the U.K.
market with a general firming of the pricing continuing to emerge.
This trend has helped our sales activity and our fourth quarter sales in Unum UK increased by 15%.
And finally new sales in Colonial Life increased by 4.2% in the fourth quarter primarily driven by higher sales activity in the core commercial sector which produced an increase of 8.1%.
Recruiting trends at Colonial Life remained positive with new rep contract growth of 10% this quarter and just under 7% for the full year.
Shifting to the balance sheet and the investment portfolio we continue to be very pleased with the results.
The credit profile of our investment portfolio remains in excellent shape with a net unrealized gains position in our fixed maturity securities portfolio at $5.8 billion at year end.
This quarter we reported net realized after-tax investment gain excluding the mod-co derivative impact of $14.6 million which was the fifth quarter in a row with gains generated and our portfolio watch list remains quite small.
While the quality of the investment portfolio remains strong the challenge remains in investing new cash flows at attractive rates.
This is nothing new and I will refer you to our November Investor Day materials for more in-depth discussion.
In short we benefit from having a low level of new cash flow to invest relative to the size of our existing portfolios as well as the hedges we have in place on our long-duration Long-term Care portfolio.
This allows us to be selective in our asset purchases and as a result our portfolio yields have held up well despite the low-rate environment.
The aggregate portfolio yield was 6.67% at year end 2011 a decline of only 4 basis points from the beginning of the year.
And we put new money to work at 5.99% in the fourth quarter.
The yields on the investment portfolio that support each of our various product lines also showed similar stability.
Our capital position remains in a very healthy position.
Statutory operating earnings for our traditional U.S.
life insurance companies continue at good levels: $178 million in the fourth quarter and $644 million for the full year 2011.
This falls in line with our capital model that is generating $500 million per year of free cash flow.
The weighted average risk-based capital ratio for our traditional U.S.
life insurance companies eclipsed the 400% mark and ended at an estimated 405% at year end above our targeted range of 375% to 400%.
Holding company cash and marketable securities were equally strong totaling $756 million at December 31.
We did not repurchase any shares in the fourth quarter but it was an active 2011 with full year repurchases of $620 million.
We look forward to being back in the market shortly.
Finally as Tom Watjen outlined our outlook for 2012 remains the same as we outlined in our Investor Day in November.
Given today's environment our higher cash level holdings at year end we would see ourselves currently in the lower end of the range of 6% to 12% earnings growth but we remain optimistic about our core business operations going forward.
And now I'd like to turn the call back to Tom for his closing comments.
Thanks Rick.
As I mentioned earlier I'm very pleased with our operating results for both the fourth quarter and full year 2011.
Our investment portfolio remains solid and our capital position remains strong and the 2 remain significant assets in today's challenging business environment.
While there was a cost in doing so exiting the Long-term Care business allows us to sharpen our strategic focus on our core businesses.
As evidenced by our recent performance these businesses are far less volatile and provide us with sustainable profitable growth opportunities and attractive returns for our shareholders.
This completes our prepared remarks and operator let's move to the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we will hear first from Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
I was wondering how sensitive your assumptions are on the charges you took to interest rates.
And specifically how many years would the tenure have to stay where it is where you might have to take another charge? Well let me ask Rick to speak.
I think you'd talked to that briefly I think in some of your comments I think Rick.
So maybe just pick up on it if you could please.
I will.
When you think about sensitivity first I'd say with regards to the Individual Disability this is not about interest rates that business actually in Closed Block status the claims are running very similar to the new cash flows so there's no interest rate sensitivity that we really see in that line of business.
On the Long-term Care side I think the way you framed it up is the right one which is to think about how many years this will run out for.
What we did is lower the discount rate keeping in mind what we see in the lower interest rate environment and how our portfolio yield might trend down over a period of time.
And we think about it we think about the next 3 to 5 years and that framing actually is quite consistent with what we hear from the Fed and outside markets.
So that's the way that you would need to think about it.
Now that's our current assumption.
Our team has done a great job in terms of exceeding expectations with regards to how they put money to work over that period of time.
We do have some cash flow hedges in that process as well which will come into play.
So think about it over a 3 to 5-year period of time that we would see that come through in the discount rate potentially.
Okay.
And just the follow up is it looks like about half of your liabilities reserves are associated with the Closed Block.
What is the capital associated with the Closed Block? Tom yes I think it's roughly about 25% 27% something like that I think Bob.
Yes Bob I think the number's 25% on a GAAP basis.
Yes.
And now we'll hear from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a question first just on pricing trends.
We've heard from a lot of companies in the U.S.
disability market that they intend to raise prices wondering if you've actually seen that in the market.
And then second on share buybacks just if you would discuss why you didn't buy back stock in the fourth quarter given your capital position.
And as you're thinking about 2012 are you going to buy at an even pace or should we expect you to be more opportunistic depending on where the stock price is? Good question.
Let me ask Kevin here to pick up the first one on pricing trend.
I would say the pricing trends in the marketplace are pretty stable.
I wouldn't say they've softened at all.
They've probably hardened a little bit.
We have a very solid fourth quarter in terms of sales very solid closing ratios persistency for the full year as well as entering 2012 is very solid.
So my instincts are based on all that data that prices have stabilized and might be creeping up a bit depending upon which company we're talking about.
And maybe just an extension too Jimmy that is as you know we've also -- we're experiencing some interesting pricing trends in the U.K.
Maybe Jack you want to pick up on that just in terms of the U.K.
pricing trends? Yes actually we too had very strong sales results in the second half of the year particularly in the fourth quarter.
We had improving persistency results through most of the year.
There's a lot of carriers that are talking about raising rates in the market not only because of aging but interest rates and other factors.
And we believe we're actually starting to see some of that.
Now we don't believe it's a going to be a steady trend every quarter going up but we do think that the prevailing trend is upward.
And then maybe Rick can pick up your question on share buyback.
Certainly.
When you think about the fourth quarter there are a couple of things going on and I think we had mentioned that in the Investor Day.
There are a limited windows.
We like to be in the open market purchasing our shares.
There are a limited windows given our Investor Day and a lot of things in the market.
Liquidity is a little bit less so that's one aspect to it.
But I think you need to this fourth quarter and given some of the strategic reviews that we were going through and understanding the different pieces of that we do not think it to be a good time to be buying back shares in the marketplace.
It was not denoted by our capital position.
We certainly had the ability to do so.
And we'll look as we get into this year to be as you say opportunistic throughout 2012.
I would not think of it on a level basis.
I think when our share price is low we tend to be in buying more.
And as our share price is higher we'll buy a little bit less.
So think of that flexing over the course of the year dependent on how our share price is behaving.
Moving on to Jay Gelb with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us some more insight on the last comment where you think you'll be at the low end of the EPS growth guidance range of 2012? What gives you confidence that you can hit the low end of the range? Rick you want to pick up on that? I certainly will.
When you think about our Investor Day we had gone out and highlighted 6% to 12% growth coming into the year.
As we got through the end of the year and looking at how our year ended up a little bit certainly higher than external expectations about our fourth quarter combined with the fact that we were sitting on a little bit more cash at year end in a low interest rate environment it put a little pressure on that range.
We're still very much in that range and committed to it so I don't want to lead anyone out of that range.
We still feel very committed to being in that range.
I just want to highlight the fact that when you think about it right now there's a little bit of pressure in the market which won't be a surprise to you and we're being reflective of the world around us but still staying in that 6% to 12% range.
And if I could add to Rick's comments.
I think as we talked about it in Investor Day too you think about the 2 sources of growth for us one obviously is operating earnings the other is share repurchase activity.
And there's no doubt I think in 2012 we'll continue to be a little more skewed to growth coming from share repurchase activity but still that doesn't undermine the fact that each of our 3 businesses are expected to grow as well in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on a separate topic.
What are your views to the ROE profile for the major operating businesses going forward? Yes I'll start it.
I think about a couple different product lines I think if you think about Unum U.S.
now it's probably a little north of the 13% ROE.
Really the principal pieces to that puzzle as you know are the strong group returns as well as some of the voluntary's returns continue to be very strong.
So that's sort of -- think of that as a 13% 14% return.
I think as you heard in my comments Colonial's operating at about a 16.5% ROE and the U.K.'s at about a 20% ROE.
So again that's why when you compare any decision like Long-term Care against your existing portfolio of businesses in terms of growth and returns it's got a pretty high target to meet and those 3 businesses continue to be producing we think some pretty good returns and expect that to continue in 2012.
And now we'll move to the next question that will come from Chris Giovanni Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question is in terms of potential for reinsurance transactions with the Long-term Care Block and maybe some of the other pieces that you moved into the Closed Block? Yes let me start and introduce it but I think Rick if you could pick up.
I think Rick mentioned in his comments Chris that once it's in a Closed Block status we don't just ignore it.
It's actually going to be very aggressively manageable in terms of rate activities as well as capital management.
You think about again go back in history a bit when we put the Individual Disability block into Closed Block status whereas we couldn't do much with rates we did a lot to manage the capital effectively in that business over time.
And I think certainly times have changed considerably since 2004 but I'd say Rick it's a big priority for us to continue to be sure that we're actively managing that block.
Yes and I'd just add to that.
There is capacity in the marketplace that we want to tap into today.
We're going to run pretty hard at it.
It's a little bit more challenging on a LTC-type block than it would be against a shared mortality-based life block but it's something that we want to look at.
And as we close it and take through price increase and things like that that we think there may be opportunities to alleviate some of that capital for reinsurance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms the reserve strengthening that you guys did.
Can you talk a bit more in terms of getting investors comfortable that there's not a material charge to come further? And then I guess somewhat of an elementary question my understanding is the reserves on a GAAP and stat basis are now comparable and with stat accounting and reserving more conservative than GAAP why should we expect that there shouldn't be some differentiation between higher reserve on the stat basis versus GAAP? Rick do you want to pick that one up? Yes let me take you through maybe it will give you a sense on the reserve structuring that was done.
I talked about the interest rate.
That should give you some perspective in terms of how we're looking at it.
It's taking a full review of how something that might happen in the interest rate side.
It was a large part of the change that we made around our reserves and we're going to see how that blends in over as I said up to the next 5 years on that front.
The second piece of it was looking at termination rates.
It's very much using industry data which helps to inform our decisions with our own data.
And these trends are actually becoming a lot more credible as the Society of Actuaries has a lot more data out there.
So it's not just something we're seeing internally it's how we're blending that with what we're seeing externally on those 2 different fronts.
When you think about the reserves the GAAP reserves are more closely approximate the stat reserves in aggregate today.
There are multiple pieces underlying that but I think that when we look at that today the actions that we took the actions of closing the block as well as looking pretty hard at the reserves on a best estimate basis take us close to those statutory reserves as well and we feel comfortable today as we've said on those 2 fronts.
And we'll now move to Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> I wanted to follow up a little bit on the difference between the GAAP and stat reserve assumptions.
The discount rate is pretty self-explanatory so I guess I'm more interested in the claim terminations and recovery assumptions but it seems like all the GAAP charges were caused mainly by emerging industry and Unum-specific experience so guess I'm a little surprised that that was already reflected in the previous statutory assumptions even though understandably those are more conservative to begin with.
Can you just walk me through that a little bit please? Sure I'll look at the -- I mean specifically I think the only one that really you should be looking at there might be the terminations.
The interest rate as you said as you go into -- they start off on a more conservative basis on a statutory basis from a discount rate.
And we've reflected a more conservative basis on our U.S.
GAAP best estimates as well relative to what we had had previously.
And so when you look at termination rates on a statutory prescribed basis those are actually established early on and trend over that period of time.
When you take all those things together and looking through it as we said the statutory reserves would look more similar to the GAAP reserves doesn't mean they're one for one across every different attribute but in aggregate they look to be about the same today.
LLC</strong> I guess what was the key initial difference between the stat assumption and GAAP in terms of terminations? Was it just more conservative morbidity assumptions was it high mortality -- I mean I guess if you're living longer I guess just looking for some more specifics.
Yes Ryan you're isolating one aspect of the total reserves and you can't really do that relative to the overall.
They look at it on an aggregate basis as opposed to attribute by attribute and comparing the 2.
So I would caution you from doing that particularly on just an isolated claim termination rate.
It doesn't really work like that.
And you need to look at the reserves in aggregate the different pieces how it looks together.
And at the best estimate reserves on a U.S.
GAAP basis are more consistent with the more conservative originally set up.
And understand there are many many cohorts that go into part of the statutory reserving process over many many years where the original assumption set up on stat has continued to run and have trended over time.
So I'd caution you from trying to isolate any particular piece to the reserves.
Just know that in aggregate they're consistent and we feel comfortable with them.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick one.
Do you know how much statutory capital is associated with the Long-term Care block of business? We need to get back to you on that one.
And now we'll hear from Mark Finkelstein Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Let me actually tackle that question in a slightly different way.
At year end you would've been subject to year-end asset adequacy or cash flow testing which would've looked at obviously the assumptions.
How meaningful was the cushion above the level at which you would've had to have taken a statutory reserve hit? Mark let me give you a little bit on that.
One is that you'd have to look at it on an entity by entity basis cash flow testing is done for each individual statutory entity.
With some netting actually you can look across multiple product lines and so we'd say in those entities where we are writing multiple product lines there's certainly a high degree of sufficiency across those lines.
Some entities you have to look at it product by product where things were tighter.
But when I take it back in aggregate in our statutory entities the cash flows associated with those statutory entities at year end netted down and you can see from our first base capital ratio up at 405% that they're in a very good position.
So it's a more complicated question than you're asking and not one that I want to get into it at this moment.
Research Division</strong> Okay let me just ask it slightly differently.
I know that there's the ability to kind of cross fund within legal entities and it's an overall testing but is your best guess that if you just isolated Long-term Care that the assets would've been sufficient based on the scenario testing or is there a lot of benefit from the LTD or what have you? Yes.
It's really not an isolation test we do on many of our entities because it is a netting across the board so I don't know if I'd want to get into isolating every specific attribute of our entities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess you talked about the reserve being a blend of your own experience but largely incorporating the most recent Society of Actuaries factors.
I guess I'm just curious if your own data isn't viewed to be credible why wouldn't you fully reflect what the industry factors are looking like and if you did that how meaningful would the difference have been in what we saw this quarter? Yes when you look at it actually a lot of the data that we're needing to use from the external world are get out into longer durations where we just don't have the data.
In the nearer term as we have more credible data we're actually reflecting more of our own experience and looking at the 2 of those.
So I think we actually are looking relying on external data for some of the long durations already and some of the shorter durations closer to the products that were originated we're using our own data.
I'm not sure if I'm answering your question but I think that credibility has come through and in some of our own data we're using that and where the Society of Actuaries now has credible data in their most recent study we'll use that as well.
So when I say blend it almost deals more with the blend over the horizon of different claim patterns.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just finally the last question is you talked about the reserve assumptions being based on kind of interest rates at where they are for a 3 to 5-year timeframe is the answer the same on stat as GAAP? So if rates stayed where they are you wouldn't really need to make an impact for that variable alone under either stat or GAAP or is that just a GAAP commentary? That was very much a GAAP commentary.
If you think about the stat those are prescribed rates and the tests that govern those reserves actually are more holistic than looking at any particular attributes on the stat side.
And now we have Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets in the queue.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm very interested in exploring this whole mortality issue just because -- I was telling Tom White last night I don't think this is the first time this has happened.
I think we're going to go back a long ways.
But I think call it 10 years ago Unum took large charges in LTD because of issues related to cardiovascular care and separately related to the effectiveness of HIV-related drugs.
Now we have 2 more mortality-related charges.
Granted a long time has passed since those last charges but because we don't hear this sort of thing a company being -- competitors being challenged by mortality.
I'm just wondering have you concluded that -- do you feel like you are keeping up with medical developments as well as you should to understand mortality or do these 4 charges that I referenced cardiovascular HIV Long-term Care-related mortality Individual Disability-related mortality do they point to an effort to perhaps improve your understanding of what's happening with life spans? Eric let me start on that and maybe ask others to chime in as well but I'm probably one of the few historians that can actually relate back to some of those times actually.
And Eric I guess as you recall back to those times when we talked about updating mortality studies I think frankly there wasn't a rigor at the company back then to do that on a regular basis.
So the mortality studies I think were outdated.
And as a result when we did put the combination of the businesses together we had a chance to make some assumption changes and update some of those mortality studies and that's what you're referring to in terms of the company strengthening reserves back there at some of those early days.
Needless to say we're actually much more timely in terms of updating our mortality studies.
So I think a part of your question was is this a brewing issue that's broader than the one we're talking about here now.
The answer is no because I think there's a much rigorous process of updating the assumptions and reflecting that not just in reserving assumptions but pricing assumptions and other things that affect that business.
But again I look to my colleagues anything you want to add to that Kevin? I think your team is very actively involved in making sure that we continue to keep all the studies that are associated with making these critical underwriting decisions current.
Yes I mean we update our underwriting processes all the time based on emerging medical data.
We update our pricing on all our products that we can at least -- on that same data and then we update our reserves as well.
The one thing I'd point to Eric is that this particular block that you're talking about was written back in the 1980s and 1990s.
It's a Individual Disability non-repriceable block and those claimants are just now in their lifetime benefits which we no longer sell and haven't sold for some time.
So this update is just as we see emerging experience based on policies that were written 20-plus years ago and they're just now reaching sort of that extended duration disabled life status and we thought it was appropriate to update it.
LLC Research Division</strong> One more quick one for Rick.
In the news release you referenced the fact that in Long-term Care in the Closed Block if you didn't have the reserve charge your interest adjusted loss ratio in the quarter still would've been higher than the year-ago quarter due primarily to an increase in active life reserves.
How could you have an increase in active life reserves if you under I guess what used to be called the FASB Statement 60 I thought the reserves are locked in and the only time you have an increase in the active life reserves if I understand the bookkeeping correctly is when you do a loss recognition study.
So what is this increase in active life reserves and how can it happen absent a formal loss recognition study? When you look at the active life reserves actually they're increasing giving the lower persistency.
That's been a trend we've seen over a number of years so that's what caused and has been causing actually the loss ratio kind of on a non-adjusted  basis to increase.
We have now gone through loss recognition so each of the assumptions across the reserving processes have been reset.
So you shouldn't see that same deterioration because we are reflecting our current experience around lapse rates on a more updated basis and we've unlocked those effectively those FAS 60 reserves as we've gone through loss recognition.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just to clarify and I'll be done at this point.
This unlocking in the increasingly active life reserves are we referring to the group business or to the closed down individual Long-term Care? It's in the -- you're referring actually to the closed down Long-term Care business which includes both individual and group.
LLC Research Division</strong> And there is a policy or active life reserve on both types of policies or only on the individual? They're on both types of policies.
Actually the group looks very similar to the individual as you go through the accumulation phase until you hit claim somewhere down the line.
And now we'll hear from Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Another question with regards to interest rates just wanted to clarify either the rate assumptions you're using for Long-term Care are the same as what you're using for all other products you offer or if not are we potentially looking at similar charges elsewhere in the organization if rates remain low.
Second with the IDI charge I understand that that reflects increased life expectancies for active claimants can you discuss why that would be -- also affect the influencing your reserves for Group Disability claimants.
I'm guessing is that group policies only provide benefits through retirement date rather than lifetime benefits but perhaps you can clarify that.
That was a little bit rapid fire the second question but certainly let me talk about the first in terms of rates in our other lines of business.
I think we've talked a fair bit about how interest rates impact our other lines.
It's actually quite different I think when you look at our LTD business we've talked about actually our portfolio yield has been above what we've seen on the discount rate side.
We would've talked about last quarter actually reflecting some of the interest rate environment that we had and decreasing the discount rate on that and we've been feeling that impact coming through.
Although I would tell you in the quarter our margin or the difference between our portfolio yield and that discount rate didn't move.
So we actually still sit with a very very large margin on that front.
And our closed disability block when you think about that new claims that are claim payments that are going out or matching up with cash flows coming in on premiums so really the interest rate risk there is reflected and it's been very stable on that front.
And those are really the 2 big pieces.
I think the difference you would have had particularly to Long-term Care is that as we've gone through loss recognition and updated those estimates we're giving a new best estimate relative to what the interest rate environment looks like today and how we see it potentially transpiring over the next several years.
Nigel it's Tom White.
On your second question I think the key thing is that we don't have lifetime benefit provisions for our other products.
We don't have it in the Individual Disability recently issued.
We don't have it in LTD.
So what we dealt with in the Closed Block is very specifically tied to that particular benefit provision which we don't have elsewhere.
And next moving to Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any opportunity for kind of the underlying in the U.S.
business the headcount the salary growth the pickup here? Any signs of life in the first quarter? You think the job market is showing some movement if it continues to be relatively healthy would you start to see more of that natural growth? Maybe I'll let Kevin speak to that.
Kevin and maybe at the same speaking to job growth also just to new case count growth which actually has positioned us well when we do see some job improvement.
A little early I think to see a sort of market and sales reflection of recent job reports but I think if those continued you'd expect to see some increase in natural growth.
As you know we were disappointed in 2011 that natural growth didn't come back where we had hoped it would.
For 2012 we're not planning on it coming back.
So any improvement in the economy in the employment economy or in wage inflation would benefit us relative to our performance and relative to our planning.
We did see some improvement in the second half of 2011 in what we call NBOC or updating of benefits by existing employer accounts.
And we did see some increase in re-enrollments in existing accounts.
Both of those would seem to reflect an improving economic environment for our customer base.
And of course we acquired over 20 000 new lines of coverage with new customers during the course of 2011.
And so any improvement in the economy across either job creation or wage inflation would definitely benefit us on the top line.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Talking to the sales strength in the quarter in the U.S.
were there more opportunities more RFPs out there more people were looking for new providers was that an important driver? I think we were pretty consistent throughout the year in terms of increasing our activity levels explaining our value proposition in terms of our ability to package both group and voluntary products together and I think that momentum just carried through into the fourth quarter.
I think our sales and service organization out in the field did a terrific job reaching out to customers and brokers and explaining our value proposition.
And our closing ratio is quite strong in the quarter but I wouldn't sort of turn that over and say it was because market activity in total changed very much.
I think it was more a reflection of the diligence and effort of our sales organization.
Maybe Kevin to add to that I think that the growth you saw was probably most prominent in your core commercial and your core group and your voluntary which have been 2 areas where you put a lot of resources and focus on the last several years.
That's right Tom.
Over the last several years we've worked hard in our field sales and service organization to what we call integrate our ability to deliver both voluntary and group products together in packages.
We've talked about that in the past in terms of our Simply Unum value proposition and I think the effectiveness of our sales organization in delivering that showed up during 2011.
Now John Nadel with Sterne Agee has the next question.
Research Division</strong> I have a question about the New York sub and the Long-term Care business there.
I know the New York sub houses maybe 14% 15% of your LTC reserves and would be subject in New York to a more stringent cash flow testing at year end.
Is there any need based on that cash flow testing to raise reserves in the New York sub? Rick do you want to take that one? Sure.
John as I was mentioning to Mark in going through that it is a sub by sub type of evaluation you need to go to.
New York you isolate it specifically.
We don't like to necessarily do that but it does have different cash flow testing.
As interest rates have dropped we have looked at that sub and it has needed some strengthening reserves given that they are not the offsets that you see in some of our other subs.
We reflected some of that through the third quarter and saw that coming.
So I think that that is -- if you want to isolate one sub I think that you can do that.
I would go back to when you looked across all of our insurance subs the net cash flows that we saw over the course of the year end actually were netted to basically a neutral number and that's why you saw the 405% RBC level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if and I know this is a big if but if the entirety of your statutory book of business were subject to the New York more stringent cash flow testing can you give us an estimate for how much higher the statutory reserves would need to be? It's a big if and I don't think we would do that.
We look at each of our entities and certainly abide by the statutory rules in each of those entities and go through that process.
And when you think about it from managing the company I think on netting basis across I mean there are pluses and minuses in anything that you look at and I think that the fact that we are able to use excess margins we have in some products relative to other products which are more challenged actually makes a whole lot of sense.
But we don't deal with that state by state.
Research Division</strong> And then if I can just to -- I saw Fitch last night reaffirm their rating no change in outlook.
As of right now I haven't seen any of the other 3 rating agencies out.
Do you have any expectations that any of the rating agencies will sort of negatively respond to the quarter's charges? Tom you want to speak to that? Yes John I hate to kind of front run what a rating agency would announce.
I would say that we went through extensive discussions with all the rating agencies and just as we've talked today talked about how the fact that this is a GAAP-only event it's not statutory it doesn't impact risk-based capital cash flow generation or in effect the credit quality of the company with the exception of our leverage ratio moving up and also the fact that we had very strong operating results.
So you see how Fitch interpreted all of that.
I think the other rating agencies are basically in the same spot but to the extent that they're going to make announcements you'll see those coming out over the next handful of days.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate that.
And then just finally with all the reclassification the 3 segments that were impacted supplemental voluntary the Closed Block and Corporate at least from a operating earnings perspective x the noise associated with the charges is there anything in those 3 segment results that you would characterize this quarter as perhaps non-trendable? No.
And now we'll move to Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> So just on the Long-term Care runoff now.
I think you had talked about re-rate plans or price increases on that block bringing in $25 million or $30 million of premiums by mid-2012 and 2013.
So it's kind of a 2-part question.
One now that that's in runoff do you feel like you could put a little bit more pressure on re-rates.
And the second question is we have kind of a confirmation of overall earnings guidance I guess should we think of the Closed Block as kind of being our plug to get to that earnings guidance or is there any update you can give us on the guide for the Closed Block going forward? Rick you want to touch the rating action the pricing action? I'll touch on both of them.
When you look at what's going on you talked about what we've actually -- the actions that have already been taken across our individual block of business.
And I think when we look at managing this and as I mentioned in my notes we're going to go after rate where it's warranted wherever that might be and I think it's something we'll continue to look at.
And if you see deterioration in these blocks we'll continue to raise rates on them commensurate with that.
So it will be an actively managed block.
It will be a closed block but when it comes to rating actions and reflecting that we'll certainly be active on that front.
When you think about the Closed Block and the earnings outlook that we've put out there 6% to 12% I don't think that it's really changed.
One of the things as we went through this process the emergence of earnings that will come out of it looked very similar than it would've looked on a run-rate basis anyway.
I think it should look stable going forward you won't see deterioration in that earnings profile and so that's why it doesn't impact our earnings outlook for the year.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
So a quick follow-up then as far as the group business goes there's no re-rates kind of specifically or implicitly baked into that guide? No.
Understand that when we go through pricing actions it takes more than 18 months for that to come through so it's not going to impact our 2012 at all.
But I wouldn't take off the table is that we would be looking at pricing actions across both books of business the individual which we've already taken multiple pricing actions on as well as the group business going forward.
So that's out there but certainly that doesn't come into play as we look at 2012 -- our 2012 outlook.
Next will be Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go first to the U.K.
You talked in the press release about some impact from implementing new claim management processes.
I'm wondering if you can give us an update on just kind of where that process stands.
I mean Jack's been there I think for over a year and a half I would've thought you're pretty far into that process but can give us a sense of whether there's still a ways to go there please? Hey Jack do you want to pick up on that? In your response Jack it would be good to remind everybody the way the U.K.
market works is a bit different than the U.S.
Yes we are pretty well into that process.
It took a long time to get up and going.
I would say that the technical aspects of the claims management process are fully in place.
We expect that there's some potential for modest improvements going forward as we fully embed the process and work on the culture and the management of the organization.
I think that's baked into our 2012 plans and it helps offset some of the pressure that we're going to feel from interest rates in 2012.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then I want to come back to the U.S.
I think Rick just touched on this if I understand correctly.
I guess I'm wondering about how the significant balance sheet charges in this quarter would impact earnings going forward? I would think at the very least the fact that you've written off Long-term Care DAC would mean that we'd have an absence of DAC amortization for example going forward.
But can you just clarify to what extent earnings will be different than if you hadn't taken the charge at this point or maybe different than earnings would've looked historically in 2011? Yes I'll give you that Jeff.
It's actually mentioned in the last -- it actually was very similar in terms of where it is.
Now it comes from different geographies.
So yes there is no DAC amortization but there are different claims costs associated with how that works in the future.
And also as I mentioned on the interest rate side we're now reflecting a lower discount rate.
So there's a restructuring effect to how that earnings profile will emerge but it actually looks strikingly similar to what it would've looked like in previous years or even as the result of our outlook for 2012 absent the charge.
And now Steven Schwartz with Raymond James Associates will have the next question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just about everything was asked already that I was going to ask but Jeff's last question was something I wanted to ask about.
The change or the write-down of the DAC in LTC has no effect on the ASU 2010-26 charges.
I think you showed $14 million to $16 million on a pro forma basis for 2011.
Yes actually I should be clear about that with our outlook.
We have changed our outlook around the DAC change that we'll have in the first quarter as a result of this Long-term Care charge.
About $90 million of our DAC write-off would have been written off as part of the process.
So now if you went to actually our outlook for the DAC accounting change in the first quarter that impact we had previously a range of $400 million to $600 million is down to $400 million of our expected impact in the first quarter.
So that actually is a change in our outlook with regards to looking forward to what we'll see in the first quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right but there's no effect pro forma on the earnings impact of the new standard? There is not no.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the less DAC to be amortized is basically offset by I guess less commissions to be capitalized? You have that and you have interest rate changes -- oh you're talking about specifically about the DAC? Yes that would be the case.
Actually operator I think we'll just do one more question.
And that final question will come from Ed Spehar with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to clarify something on the rates that you're assuming for the Long-term Care charge are you assuming the continuation of current interest rates or are you looking at some sort of forward curve measure? When we look at that actually we're looking at the current interest rates over the next 3 to 5 years.
And what you would see in that Ed is the portfolio rate would come down effectively.
We're setting the discount rate as to how we would see that come down.
And there's a lot that goes into that it's not just about forward rates which are actually as you look out 3 to 5 years aren't that steep anyway.
But I think taking that into account you're looking at credit spreads and everything else.
So there's a lot of pieces in there but our best projection would say that as we look out 3 to 5 years that's how the discount rate would come down with our team performing at a level consistent with what they've done in the past.
Research Division</strong> Given the inherent difficulty in forecasting interest rates and I don't think anybody can do it can you just give us some sense of what the sensitivity is between if you assume current low rates for the next 3 to 5 years versus if you did follow something like the forward curve? I can't do that off the cuff and it'd be something we'd take you through but I think 3 to 5 years within that range you wouldn't see much different on the forward rates.
So we like to look at today's rates.
I mean forward rates are a tougher thing particularly as you're only looking out 3 to 5 years in terms of how that might move.
It actually can move around a fair bit.
So we more look at the overall modeling of our portfolio.
Rates we see today credit spreads we see today and take that out for the next 3 to 5 years.
Research Division</strong> And just one thing on your comment on opportunistic buybacks.
I mean even before the stock declined today you're trading below book value you talk about high returns on equity in your core business and I think that while maybe it's too early to declare victory you certainly have had some better numbers on the U.S.
economy recently.
I mean how much more opportunistic -- what's more opportunistic than right now? I think in my comments I actually said we look forward to being back in the market although I had not seen the share price where it is today.
I think even where it was yesterday we see that as good opportunity to buy back our stock below book and we're going to take advantage of that.
Well again thank you all for taking the time to join us.
We know there were certainly some complexity in our release yesterday but hopefully over the course of today's conversation we've helped separate the strong underlying operating performance from obviously the important strategic decision to exit the Long-term Care business.
And as always we stand ready.
If there's any follow-on questions please don't hesitate to give us a call.
And with that I think operator this will complete our fourth quarter earnings call.
And that will conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Unum Group First Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference.
Just a reminder that today's program is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Lisa.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Analyst and Investor Conference Call for Unum Group.
Our remarks this morning will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are also located in the section titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2011.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website at unum.com.
I also remind you that statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found on our website also in the Investors section.
Participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen the President and CEO of Unum; Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; and also the presidents of our 3 business segments Kevin McCarthy for Unum US; Randy Horn for Colonial Life; and Jack McGarry for Unum UK.
And now I will turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Thank you Tom and good morning.
While our overall results were somewhat below our expectations the vast majority of our businesses met or exceeded expectations and I sum up the quarter as follows: First we grew operating earnings per share by 4.3% with solid performance in our Unum US and Colonial businesses which was off somewhat by -- offset somewhat by the lower-than-expected performance in our Unum UK and Closed Block segments.
While this quarter's growth and operating earnings per share was below our outlook we expect growth trends to improve throughout the year and we are therefore are maintaining our 6% to 12% operating earnings per share growth outlook for 2012 though at the low end of the range.
Second our core business segments generated healthy returns on equity of between 13.5% and 17.5% for the first quarter.
Additionally we are seeing signs of improving growth trends across these businesses.
At Unum US we saw solid sales results in the 2 segments targeted for growth our core group and voluntary benefit lines which were up 14% in the first quarter an improvement over the 8.3% growth rate in 2011.
Colonial Life sales were somewhat below our expectations but we are seeing positive trends in the core commercial market a targeted market for us and our overall premium grew almost 6% in the quarter.
Finally with firming in the pricing environment in the U.K.
we are seeing better new sales opportunities in that market.
Thirdly I'd point out that our capital position remains strong with risk-based capital of 406% and holding company cash and marketable securities of $575 million.
This gives us significant financial flexibility flexibility that allowed us to repurchase $175 million of stock during the first quarter.
Since year-end 2007 we have repurchased over $1.8 billion of stock and reduced our shares outstanding by over 20%.
And lastly with our relatively consistent cash flow generation from operations as you know we have also established a pattern of returning capital to our shareholders through regular dividend increases.
You saw yesterday that we announced a 23.8% increase in our quarterly dividend which brings our cumulative dividend increase since year-end 2007 to over 73%.
So in summary in spite of the results in our Unum UK and Closed Block businesses we continue to feel good about where things stand at the company.
We are growing operating earnings per share generating attractive returns on equity and maintaining the financial flexibility needed to continue to consistently return capital to our shareholders.
I can assure you that we will be very focused on improving the performance of those areas not meeting our expectations while also building on the momentum we have established around the rest of the company.
Now I'll ask Tom to provide an overview on our operating results.
Tom? Great thank you Tom.
As we discuss our financial results this quarter I'll first remind you that prior-period results have been adjusted for our retrospective adoption of the accounting standards update for deferred acquisition costs and also for our treatment of the nonoperating retirement-related gains and losses which we now exclude from the operational performance of our businesses.
Adjusted prior-period results are available on our website in an 8-K and supplemental exhibit which we filed on April 17.
As a benchmark for full year 2011 our after-tax operating income per share -- this is adjusted for the retrospective adoption of the DAC accounting standards update and excluding the after-tax nonoperating retirement-related losses after-tax realized investment gains and losses and certain other items was $2.98 per share.
As you can see from our press release yesterday afternoon we’ve reported net income of $213.9 million for the first quarter of 2011 or $0.73 per diluted common share compared to net income in the year-ago quarter of $223.6 million or $0.71 per diluted common share.
Included in net income for the first quarter of 2012 are after-tax nonoperating retirement-related losses of $7.6 million and net realized investment gains of $8.3 million.
Included in last year's first quarter are nonoperating retirement-related losses of $5.2 million and net realized investment gains of $9.7 million.
So excluding these items after-tax operating income was $213.2 million for the quarter or $0.73 per diluted common share compared to $219.1 million or $0.70 per diluted common share in the year-ago quarter.
Now turning to the operating segments.
Operating income for the Unum US segment increased 5.8% to $205.9 million in the first quarter; and premium income increased by 4% driven by positive comparisons in all 3 lines of business within this segment.
Operating income in the Group Disability line was $74.7 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $73.8 million last year as a 1% increase in premium income helped offset a 1 percentage point increase in the benefit ratio.
The increase in premium income which is the first year-over-year increase in several years resulted from the recent favorable sales trends solid persistency and also a slight benefit we experienced this quarter from employment and wage growth in our in-force customer base.
The group disability benefit ratio increased to 84.9% from 83.9% in the year-ago period due primarily to unfavorable risk experience in the short-term disability line of business and the impact of the new claim discount rate adjustment that we made during the third quarter last year.
Within the group life and AD&amp;D line operating income increased 1.6% to $52.4 million in the first quarter benefiting from an increase of 7.1% in premium income which offset an increase in the benefit ratio to 72% from 70% last year.
The increase in the benefit ratio was due to higher incidence rates.
In the Supplemental and Voluntary line first quarter income increased 13.7% to $78.8 million.
The year-over-year improvement was driven primarily by solid growth in premium income and favorable risk experienced in each of these product lines.
Premium growth grew by 6.4% this quarter.
Moving to Unum UK operating income in this segment declined to GBP 24.7 million from GBP 30.4 million in the year-ago quarter.
The benefit ratio increased to 72.4% from 69.3% in year-ago quarter while premium income in local currency increased by 4.2%.
And Rick will examine the U.K.
results in greater detail in his comments.
So concluding our core operations Colonial Life reported an increase in operating income of 4.8% this quarter to $69.7 million driven by premium growth of 5.7% which offset a slight increase in the benefit ratio to 52.1% from 51.4% a year ago.
The results for the Closed Block segment this quarter showed a decline in operating income to $15.4 million from $31.9 million in the year-ago quarter.
The interest adjusted loss ratio for the Individual Disability block was 83.1% compared to 84.7% last year while the interest adjusted loss ratio for Long-Term Care was 91.2% compared to 83% last year.
Premium income declined by 2.9% due to the ongoing wind-down of the Individual Disability block.
For the Corporate segment we reported an operating loss of $20.6 million in the first quarter compared to a loss of $21.8 million in the year-ago quarter.
Net investment income is lower due to the lower asset levels a lower proportion of assets invested at long-term interest rates and an increase in the amortization of the principal amount invested in tax credit partnerships.
Interest to debt expense declined to $32.5 million in the quarter compared to $34.9 million a year ago due primarily to last year's first quarter debt maturity.
And expenses are lower than the prior year primarily due to decreases in expense accruals.
As previously noted our after-tax nonoperating retirement-related loss for the first quarter of 2012 was $7.6 million.
And for your modeling purposes you can expect this loss to continue at this quarterly rate for the balance of 2012.
Now I'd like to call over to Rick McKenney for further analysis of this quarter's results.
Rick? Thank you Tom.
In my comments this morning I'd like to cover the margin trends we experienced in our business segments this quarter a view on the growth trends and we'll also provide an update on our investment results and capital position.
First on operating results in the first quarter I'll start with Unum US.
It was a very good quarter for the Unum US segment with operating earnings growth of 6% and generally solid risk experience.
Sales growth and persistency trends were also encouraging and I'll cover those in a moment.
For Group Disability the benefit ratio remained within the range we've seen over the past 2 years with a benefit ratio in the first quarter of 84.9% compared to the fourth quarter ratio of 84.7% and 83.9% in the year-ago quarter.
Submitted new claims incidence trends for long-term disability were slightly higher but paid incidence trends were actually slightly lower.
Claim recovery trends continued their favorable performance over the past several quarters.
These trends were offset slightly this quarter by weaker results in our short-term disability claim experience as we experienced higher paid incidence rates and higher average weekly indemnities.
We've already begun taking action which we believe will firm up the result in short-term disability and we don't expect to see this trending through to our long-term disability results.
Additionally the new claim discount rate adjustments we made in the third quarter last year negatively impacts the benefit ratio by approximately 65 basis points.
We made no additional changes in new claim discount rate this quarter and the interest reserve margin remains stable at a spread of 97 basis points.
Overall we were pleased with the performance of the group disability line which generated over a 13% return on equity for the first quarter.
For the group life and AD&amp;D line the earnings contribution this quarter remains stable at $52.4 million up 2% from a year ago.
Premiums grew by 7% this quarter due to the recent improvement in sales trends as well as higher premium persistency.
The benefit ratio at 72% was higher than we've seen in previous quarters primarily due to higher incidence in group life.
The overall margin for this line remains very healthy generating an ROE north of 15%.
Moving to the Supplemental and Voluntary line within Unum US we saw very good overall earnings results again this quarter which increased 14% due to solid risk experience and strong premium growth.
Premium growth was 6.4% in total and 9.2% for the voluntary benefits product line.
The benefit ratio improved to 50.1% primarily driven by favorable risk experience in the voluntary benefits life product line and the Individual Disability recently issued product line.
The ROE for this business line stands at 13% and it remains an attractive growth opportunity for the company.
Turning to the U.K.
results were lower than we expected with operating earnings declining to GBP 24.7 million with lower net investment income and unfavorable group life experience.
We attribute the results in our group life business this quarter to volatility as the increased claims are not concentrated in any single customer or time period when the business was underwritten or sold.
To give some context this is a relatively small block of business at roughly GBP 130 million of annual premium income so it's subject to variations in claim activity.
We anticipate that these results will return to more normal levels of profitability as the year progresses which would be more in the GBP 30 million of quarterly earnings and an ROE of around 20%.
Colonial Life produced another solid quarter as operating earnings in the first quarter increased 5% with premium income increasing almost 6%.
The benefit ratio was slightly higher this quarter at 52.1% compared to 51.4% in the year-ago quarter and was up slightly in each of the lines.
The ROE for Colonial Life remains a very healthy 17.4% for the quarter.
To round it out this is the first quarter after loss recognition that we’ve reported our Closed Block with the inclusion of our Long-term Care business.
The results came in lower than a year ago and below our expectations due to higher claim incidence in Long-term Care.
We attribute this to volatility this quarter but we still need to establish a firm run rate in this business under its Closed Block status.
So turning to our sales trends we were very pleased with trends we're seeing across our business lines.
Sales at Unum US continued the strong trend we've seen for the past few quarters with total sales for the first quarter increasing 12%.
For the group disability and group life and AD&amp;D combined sales increased 11% with sales in the under-2 000-life core market increasing 11.5% and comprising just under 70% of the sales mix.
Voluntary benefit sales were also strong increasing almost 16% for the quarter with positive contributions across all product lines and market segments.
And persistency for Unum US was also strong at 91.7% for Group Long-term Disability and 91.3% for group life.
Given these strong trends along with a very slight benefit from the improving employment picture in the U.S.
we produced 4.4% premium growth for the Unum US segment its highest growth rate in several years.
In the U.K.
we also continue to see better pricing trends in the U.K.
market.
And as a result new sales activity has rebounded strongly against relatively low sales volumes from a year ago.
In addition persistency is firming up for the Group Long-term Disability line at 86% compared to 83.5% last year as price is absorbed into the market.
Given these trends premium income in the U.K.
in local currency increased just over 4% in the first quarter.
Finally in Colonial Life premiums grew 6%.
New sales in Colonial Life were relatively flat with new accounts increasing 3% but a smaller average case size impacting the total new account sales volume.
Moving on to the balance sheet and the investment portfolio we continue to be pleased with the trends we're seeing.
The credit quality of our investment portfolio remains excellent with a net unrealized gain position of our fixed maturity securities portfolio at $5.5 billion at quarter end and our watch list of potential problem credits continuing at historical low levels.
Net realized after-tax investment gains and losses excluded -- excluding the embedded derivative in the reinsurance contract was essentially breakeven this quarter.
The ongoing low interest rate environment continues to be challenging.
And additionally the tightening of credit spreads throughout much of the quarter made for an even more difficult quarter to put money to work.
By being selective in our asset purchases we were able to achieve new money rate which is hedge-adjusted for 5.4% for the first quarter.
As a result the overall portfolio yield held up relatively well at 6.62% comparing to 6.67% at year end.
Given the environment we saw in the first quarter we did run a cash balance higher than usual which creates a drag on our net investment income.
Given lower amounts of cash flows in the second quarter we'll look to catch up in the second quarter while continuing to be opportunistic.
Our capital position continues to be strong.
While statutory net income for our traditional U.S.
life insurance companies was down slightly from a year ago our run rate continues to support our capital model that generates about $500 million of free cash flow per year.
The weighted average risk-based capital ratio for our traditional U.S.
life insurance companies remains at approximately 406% above our 2012 target range of 375% to 400%.
Holding company cash marketable securities total $575 million at quarter end.
And we continue to expect it to be within the range of $500 million to $800 million by year-end 2012.
During the first quarter we took advantage of a lower share price and our share repurchases totaled $175 million of our planned total of $500 million for the year.
We also announced yesterday that we increased the dividend for the fourth straight year and this year notably at a more rapid rate.
We see this as reflective of our cash flow characteristics and a positive way to return money to our shareholders.
In closing with a comment on our outlook.
Despite the volatility we have described and pressure on the investment side we continue to see 2012 operating earnings per share growth in the lower end of the range of 6% to 12%.
Now I'll turn the call back to Tom for his closing comments.
Thanks Rick.
In closing despite the unfavorable results in a couple of areas which we recognize we must address we continue to grow operating earnings per share generate solid ROEs in our core business segments grow our business in our target markets and generate capital which has allowed us to continue to buy back stock and raise our dividend.
And as Rick said we're maintaining our outlook which continues to call for operating earnings per share growth at the low end of our 6% to 12% range.
This completes our prepared comments and operator let's move now to the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Chris Giovanni Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see -- regarding Long-Term Care and the incidence levels that you guys talked about I believe your book is at a relatively younger age maybe versus some of your peers.
So curious if we should be worried that this higher incidence levels this early on could lead to the need to maybe strengthen reserves in the future.
Two questions embedded in there Chris.
Why don't we sort of ask Kevin to speak a little bit just to some of the incidence and claims trends? And obviously Rick can speak to our confidence in the reserves.
Yes you're right.
Our average age is probably lower than our competitors primarily because we have about 50% of our book of business in the group Long-Term Care business.
And that average age is in the mid-40s.
The expected levels of incidence at that age would be quite low so even small upticks in incidence would generate the appearance of a fairly significant higher percentage.
That said the block of business isn't sizable enough to not have volatility and I think this kind of volatility that we experienced in this quarter isn't atypical of this kind of business.
Rick you want to speak to the financial side of that? I will.
As I noted in my script what we saw in the higher loss ratio in the first quarter is a reflection of the quarter.
With regards to claim incidence we saw in LTC and not what we would expect longer-term in these businesses as Kevin just referenced.
So if you look at the Closed Block in aggregate we were running around $30 million if you look over last year.
It's come down a little bit as we look into this year and we're running in probably the $25 million to $30 million range.
And we were lighter than that by $10 million pretax.
So I would chalk that up to volatility.
You mentioned the reserves.
We did take action at year-end but those actions were much more about our long-term assumptions.
And as Kevin said this incidence we saw in the quarter is not our long-term expectation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Kevin the commentary in the release was pretty positive around the competitive environment in group disability and you talked about some pickup from employment and wage increases.
So I wanted to see one if you could talk about sort of -- expand on the competitive environment.
And in the past you've talked about sort of $80 million in premium from sort of natural growth from expanding wages and payrolls.
So wanted to see how much of this you think you're capturing today.
First let me address maybe the competitive pricing environment.
I would say that generally speaking a number of companies over the last year have announced in one way or another either price increases or renewal programs.
I think we've seen some uptick in premium for life across the industry which is a good solid trend.
I mean there are always a few competitors that that's not the case.
But in general there's been an uptick in PPL [ph].
And in general we've seen fairly stable pricing especially in the smaller case end of the marketplace through the end of last year and into the first quarter of this year.
In terms of a 4% of earned premium growth overall in Unum US very little of it is from natural growth.
I think there are encouraging signs in the economy other than maybe this morning's payroll -- unemployment report.
But in general I think the signs have been encouraging.
But that only accounts for sort of less than 0.5% of the overall growth.
The primary driver of growth was solid sales here in 2011 and really solid persistency levels.
Research Division</strong> Okay then one just last quick one on capital management.
Back at the 2010 Investor Day you talked about potentially being able to do up to $900 million of share repurchases a year and you backed away from that last year due to some of the economic headwinds.
But curious if you would be willing to upsize your buyback this year in order to achieve your EPS growth target? Rick you want to take that one? Yes I would like to talk about that one.
I would agree with those numbers we laid back out in 2010.
We got off of that track last year as we saw challenges over the course of the summer with what was going on in the Eurozone et cetera.
As we came into this year our 2011 investor day we talked about $500 million of repurchases over the course of the year.
We did a little bit more than that run rate in the first quarter but we're sticking to the $500 million for the full year.
And to your last point we don't think about it from an EPS perspective.
We think much more on the capital management side as returning capital to our shareholders doing it as a good use of the excess capital that we've generated and we'll continue to do it that way.
The last point I would make is a lot of the numbers we put out back in 2010 still hold.
So when you think of the excess capital that we still have out there on the balance sheet both in terms of cash as well as RBC in excess of our expectations over the longer term that dynamic still exists but we're going to wait until we see a better market and a better environment on the horizon before we bring out some of that capital.
Up next we'll hear from Mark Finkelstein Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> To get to the low end of the range of 6% to 12% does that assume full recovery in U.K.
and LTC earnings? Rick? Sure.
When you think about the lower end of the range the 6% to 12% we've talked about 2 dynamics there.
We’ve really mostly talked about one which is the pressure we've seen from the lower interest rates and the higher cash balances that we're holding.
I think our expectation as we've said in our earlier comments is that over the course of the year that the volatility that we saw in both LTC as well in the U.K.
will dissipate.
So when you take those together and a whole lot of other things that will happen over the course of the year it leads us to the conclusion that we're still within our range of 6% to 12%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess just going back to the incidence on LTC I mean the interest-adjusted loss ratios really did pick up quite a bit.
Are there any metrics that you can give us that just show that it really was a blip in incidence and just not kind of a continuation of a negative trend albeit much more magnified this quarter? I mean are there any sequential actual expected type metrics or anything that can kind of tell us just how much of an anomaly this was? Kevin you want to talk about it a little bit because you guys obviously monitor the business on a fairly regular basis? We've seen this kind of hiccup in incidence before in disability lines and Long-Term Care lines.
The claim volume was a little bit elevated in the first quarter.
We've seen other quarters that were somewhat similar.
We typically see some seasonality in the business as well particularly after the holidays in the first quarter.
But like I said earlier this kind of volatility we track it and we see it from time to time.
From a claims management standpoint though we're pretty active about making sure that we understand where claims are coming from and what we can do about it.
I mean we can't do much about the incoming mail but from there we can actively manage the claims.
And we've taken a couple of actions since the end of the year to shore up and strengthen our Long-Term Care active management.
I'll give you a couple of examples.
We did appoint a new senior financial executive to oversee the business.
We did put in place sort of an internal regular internal audit-type peer review of claims activity.
And we did put in place an inventory management system around claims similar to what we executed in long-term disability that's served us so well in that line of business.
So I think as Rick said we would expect this volatility to happen from time to time and we would expect it to dissipate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally with you Kevin.
I think Rick made an opening remark suggesting that the STD incidence shouldn't travel over to LTD.
I guess what gives you that confidence? A couple of things.
We track something that we call the flow-through rate the rate at which STD claims become LTD claims.
That's not moving at all.
In fact if anything it's slightly declining.
Secondly duration days the length of time that STD claim would stay on-claim it has been incredibly stable over a long long period of time.
So when I take a look at what's going on in STD I think again we've got an uptick in incidence.
We're addressing that with pricing actions and we don't see any flow-through to LTD.
Up next we'll take a question from Ed Spehar Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
I guess the first would be if the earnings run rate continued for Long-term Care at the 1Q level so I think you said about $10 million less than what you thought what if anything would that imply for reserves? Rick? Yes well I think that what you're talking about though is and it is a little bit speculative that that higher incident rate persists for a long period of time.
And so if it's a long period of time it's something you have to address.
But I'd very quickly say that we don't expect that as Kevin said and as I've said.
And so I think that it does not have the impact on reserves.
It is more volatility intra-quarter which is an income statement issue and not a balance sheet issue.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
But if there's -- I mean if it did I mean just sort of sense as to how big of a deal it would be if this number was $10 million a quarter worse than what you're thinking.
I mean is it a reserve issue at all? I guess my point is is it a reserve issue at all or is it just that earnings would be coming through $10 million less a quarter every quarter going forward? Well I think we're speculating a little bit here so what we're… Research Division</strong> We have to do that though unfortunately Rick.
What we're talking about is short-term trends versus longer-term trends.
And we're saying this is a short-term trend and it will be earnings impact in the current quarter which we've shown you.
If it happens again it will be earnings impact in that quarter.
And then longer-term if we see that as a trend we'll have to reflect that into our reserving processes.
But that's a long way out from where we sit here today.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then a related question is have you considered that there's any possibility that there was an acceleration of submitted claims in Long-term Care simply because of your decision to exit the line? Is there any reason to think that from either a customer or distributor standpoint that you might have had some upfront-ing of claims? Kevin you want to take that actually? Because we've looked at that right there… No I think -- first of all I think it would be way too soon.
We didn't make the announcement until the first week of February something like that.
So it would be way too soon for that sudden influx of mail to sort of come in.
So no I don't think there's any evidence to that.
Like I said we do a lot of internal review of incoming claiming volume.
We want to make sure whenever we see an uptick in incidence that there's nothing -- there's no sort of new thing happening to us.
And we didn't see any evidence of that.
Like I said I think it's just volatility.
Research Division</strong> Is there any reason to think that that could have an impact in subsequent quarters just the announcement that you're getting out? I don't think so.
I mean when you think about the definition of disability I am hard-pressed to see people deciding that they've got multiple ADL losses activity of daily living losses just because we made an announcement.
I mean either they have it or they don't.
I think Kevin you mentioned too one of the things we have done since the announcement is shore up a lot of our resources actually supporting this business made a number of adjustments in personnel and things like that.
So to the extent we do get a higher level of claims we've got the resources to be sure that we're only paying the ones that should be paid.
Absolutely.
Our next question will come from Jay Gelb Barclays.
Research Division</strong> What's the sensitivity to Unum's sales in the U.S.
from a pickup in improving wage numbers and employment? Kevin do you want to take that one? Sure.
I don't know if I could quantify it for you Jay but I mean certainly an uptick in wage inflation if you will would increase covered payrolls which in turn would increase the dollar volume if you will of sales pretty linearly.
And then I think an increase in employment would be similar.
I mean we start -- if companies started to grow instead of covering 100 people in the company we'd be covering 105.
So I think it's a very linear relationship.
And if we see an uptick in wage inflation and we see an uptick in employment we'll see an uptick in the dollar value of sales in premium.
Jim I might say that we're not expecting significant improvement in the economic environment actually.
So the growth that you've seen in the last year or 2 which we reported here in this past quarter is more driven by basic fundamentals.
It's either a combination of competitive dynamics improving.
Obviously our reach and touch in the marketplace continues to expand.
We've had great stability in this company in terms of our sales and service organization.
I think Kevin which actually is probably more behind the growth that we've seen and probably what we're expecting the rest of this year.
The other thing I'd say Tom is that any improvement in the economic environment with respect to wages and employment probably reflects itself more in what we call NBOC in-force customers beginning to grow again.
And we did see an increase in NBOC during the end of last year and into this quarter.
And it reflects confidence.
Research Division</strong> On a separate issue the drop-off in Unum UK net investment income quarter-over-quarter was pretty significant.
Was there any specific driver to that? Or is that the right run rate going forward? Tom you want to take that one? Yes.
Jay basically what happened is in last year's first quarter we had a bond call.
I think it was about GBP 2.7 million.
And actually it's a little unusual for us to have that.
So we had that working against us.
We didn't have any on-call premium this year.
So about a $2.7 million swing year-over-year because of the bond call last year.
Research Division</strong> It was down from $50.5 million in the fourth quarter of '11 so… The other thing is we'll get some adjustments and some noise with the inflation.
Keep in mind with our group disability policies over there about 30% or so have an inflation rider so as inflation moves up and down we'll have some movement in the net investment income which actually gets offset on the reserves and flows through the benefit ratio.
So it doesn't have any impact on overall income but we can get some noise with how inflation moves around in the U.K.
Their indexing guild [ph] so we're invested in over there.
Research Division</strong> So what do you feel the right run rate is for net investment income in Unum UK? It's going to move around.
You have to -- we can probably -- I can take you off-line and we can kind of talk through what some of the trends have been.
But it's going to be heavily dependent on the direction of inflation and how that kind of flows through the investment income line.
Tom maybe also to point out too that that also affect -- the movement in the rates in inflation affect also the benefit cost.
So there's a linkage sometimes.
So actually just focusing on the investment income is a piece of it but it's also a benefit cost connection as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Closed Block the impact of the Long-term Care business going forward I know you're trying to figure out what the run rate is there but maybe you can give us a bit more sense in terms of how we should think about it.
We are trying to establish a run rate there as I mentioned.
But I think I also mentioned in my earlier comments we'd expect that 25% to 30% range is probably more realistic for this Closed Block going forward.
As I mentioned that's slightly down off of the run rates we were seeing last year as we've taken the entire business through the Closed Block process.
Research Division</strong> And that would be considering no other unusual impacts correct? That's our expectation.
From Crédit Suisse we'll hear from Tom Gallagher.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to come back to Long-Term Care for a minute.
And Rick I just want to make sure I'm doing the math correctly.
So if I take -- if I kind of overlay your interest-adjusted benefit ratio with what I think is reasonable other expense line it looks like you lost a slight amount of money in Long-term Care in this quarter and you made money in the Closed Block Individual Disability.
Is that correct? I think that's pretty close.
We don't split out those results but I think that’s directionally correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I sort of extrapolated and again I know this is assuming -- making an assumption but if I assume that claims do remain elevated and I had just a moderate loss on a GAAP basis for the next 3 quarters heading into year end would that precipitate another reserve charge to kind of get back to Ed's question if you had -- if you strung together 4 quarters in a row? Or is that still too early to determine that the reserves are inadequate? Or you just can't make a determination? I'm just curious how you would think about that.
Sure.
I think I'd point you back to the underlying causes that brought that into a lower-earning position over the next 3 quarters.
And then we have to take those causes which in this quarter would be claim incidence and whatever that cause might be.
And you’d take those new levels and put that through the reserves and see if you're adequate on that basis.
And there's other offsets going the other way that will change over the course of the year as premium -- new premiums come in from pricing and things like that.
So you take all that together and then evaluate your reserves in that process.
But I think you have to go to the underlying causes not to what the earnings run rate is.
The earnings run rates can differ from what your long-term expectations are of claims incidence or any other factor behind the business.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess my other question would be on a related note.
Even though you did take a Long-term Care reserve charge on GAAP there wasn't much of a statutory impact from it last year.
So it really has had minimal impact on capital management which you've been able to still do in a fairly robust way.
If there was a Long-Term Care issue on claims incidence would that also be a stat issue? And would that potentially change the outlook on capital management? And then just a related question has there been a corresponding statutory impact now that you've seen some softening on GAAP on Long-term Care this quarter? Okay.
Lots of questions in there.
If you take what happened in the quarter from a statutory perspective we did see higher incidence.
We're paying on more claims and so we'll have a little bit less of a run rate on the statutory side.
Once again we don't expect that to continue.
So we'd expect our statutory earnings to go right back to our model that we're expecting longer-term in the company.
We mentioned at year end that our GAAP reserves are similar to our stat reserves today but those are 2 fundamentally different bases of accounting.
So you’d have to build up from the underlying assumptions and how that might change your view around both GAAP or stat.
So if we do see pressure in this business ultimately we could see pressure on the statutory side as well but we don't see that today.
And so we'll have to see how that plays out.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Last question just on the U.K.
I think last time we had a blip in the U.K.
you guys had talked about in the month following the close of that quarter things had gotten a bit better.
Do you have any early read on how things are playing out thus far into 2Q in the U.K.? Jack do you want to cover that? Maybe even just step back a little bit and just sort of again in your own words describe a little bit what we saw here this past quarter.
Yes.
It is different that the blip in the U.K.
in the third quarter was a disability blip.
This is clearly a group life and dependence blip.
So we don't have a read on where it is in the second quarter.
It is more volatile.
To kind of put it in context our entire group life block in the U.K.
is smaller than 1/4 worth of group life business in the U.S.
And actually average sizes because the standard plan design here tends to be 4x salary tends to be even higher.
So we expect volatility in it.
We don't have a good read but we've had blips.
In the past the first quarter tends to be a little worse than other quarters.
And we put some solace in the fact that we had very good group life quarters in the 3 quarters leading up to this one.
Our next question today will come from Steven Schwartz Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A lot of follow-ups but thanks for that on the U.K.
in April.
I'm wondering if you could talk about maybe April and if it's possible to talk about April in Long-term Care and STD.
And also with regards to STD you're raising prices.
Is that going to take a couple of years to get through like it might in Group Long-term Disability? Kevin you want to pick up on both of those? Obviously...
Yes I'd hesitate to say anything really about the second quarter right now.
I mean just as we say the first quarter's volatility and one quarter doesn't make a trend I'm reluctant to speculate on one month being a different trend.
So I think we'll just have to let it play out.
As Rick said and as I said earlier we expect volatility.
It's happened before.
We expect it to dissipate throughout.
But I'd rather wait to sort of see it happen than speculate about it.
With regard to STD in terms of renewals yes it'll take -- it would take about roughly 2 to 3 years to have it run through the block as long as [ph] that business has either 2- or 3-year rate guarantees.
We're talking about a mid-single-digit kind of rate increase.
But of course new sales would flow through right away and we're raising prices on new STD sales as well also in the mid-single digit range.
And so as sales flow through that'll help the block as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll leave that dead horse there.
If I could a couple more questions.
Rick you mentioned cash drag in the quarter.
I was wondering if you could possibly put a number on that since it sounds like you'll be fully invested at least some point during the second quarter.
That seems to be the plan.
And then I was also wondering a competitor mentioned this and I was wondering if you had seen this.
Social security administration delays maybe a lengthening in the time it takes for a decision.
And if you'd seen that how that affects you.
Rick why don't you take the cash piece and then Kevin on the social security offset piece? Sure.
On the cash side what we saw in the quarter is a few hundred million.
So you're looking $300 million-ish type range of excess cash that we wanted to put back to work.
As we look out at how much we actually did put to work it was a fair bit.
Second quarter is a lot lighter in terms of incoming cash flow that we have coming in.
So even if we do slightly less than we did in the first quarter we'll be caught back up.
But sitting on that cash even for a short period of time does cause a little bit of drag.
And we'll just have to work our way through that.
But we expect to be caught back up mostly because of the volumes that we see of cash coming in in the second quarter and our expectation that our team will continue to be opportunistic and get that out over the course of the second.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on social security? With respect to social security there's been a trend of higher rates of approvals by Social Security over the last several years and that's reflected in our strong offset performance.
We haven't seen really anything with respect to generally delays in awards and the recognition of those awards.
And in any event from a pricing and reserving standpoint we plan for that anyway.
So even the awards were delayed they would be awarded retroactively.
And as long as that occurred according to our pricing assumptions it would make no impact at all on our financials.
Our next question today comes from Randy Binner FBR.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to hit on STD again.
I guess I haven't heard in all these questions if there was an explanation of kind of what the dynamic was with the higher claims there.
And then also I was curious beyond raising pricing if there's any actions you're taking on the claim side to try and mitigate whatever the trend there is.
Kevin? Yes.
A couple of things.
What we've seen is a general creep in incidence and prevalence in STD over the last several years.
So it was a little bit more visible this quarter.
As I said the length of STD claims hasn't changed at all.
Flow-through to LTD has not occurred.
And so I guess what I would conclude from that is that it's maybe a higher volume of very short-term short-term disability claims.
Those -- that makes it somewhat harder to manage because we're not trying to manage recoveries.
A lot of times we get short-term disability claims that are so short that by the time we find out about them the person's already back to work.
That said we are taking a look at whether or not we can do something around the very very front end of short-term disability claims to monitor the incoming to see whether we can get our arms around whether or not there's anything we can do about that.
At the same time I think the more practical answer is we just need to raise prices to reflect the incidence and prevalence level we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's kind of across job classes across geographies? There's no trend in that? No.
No trend that I can point to at the moment.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then just one more kind of higher-level question on net investment income.
I think people have hit it in different areas.
And it was a little bit light versus our model and I appreciate the comments on putting cash back to work.
But I guess there's -- just to kind of clarify or make sure there's no -- there's nothing you're going to do in the portfolio to take additional action kind of different investment strategy different asset allocation? It's the same asset mix and strategy you're looking for in the portfolio just trying to get more cash to work.
Is that right? That's absolutely the case.
I think we know the asset classes that we like and on a relative value basis we'll shift from one asset class to another whether it's private placements or corporate bonds or commercial mortgage loans and we'll go where we see relative value.
But you won't see a move in the overall portfolio.
It's been stable over the last several years and you can expect it to stay there.
It'll be marginal moves in each of those product lines or those asset classes depending on what the environment looks like.
From Barclays we'll take a question from Eric Berg.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually I used to be at Barclays.
Now we’re at RBC.
All joking aside I wanted to return to the Long-term Care area.
And I guess my first thing is I wanted to clarify that the incidence the pickup at incidence that you experienced in the March quarter is different from the issue that you addressed fundamentally in the large reserve increase that you took to exit the business.
In particular my understanding is that when you booked the large charge to exit the business that was fundamentally about how long older people are living in or remaining in nursing homes -- essentially they’re staying alive -- before the claim ends due to death in the nursing home that this was really about the length of stays in nursing home.
And so my question is first are we really talking today about a new aspect to the claims? People entering nursing homes the number of claims as opposed to the length of claims? That's my question.
Rick? Sure.
We think about -- I'll take you back to year-end.
There were 2 fundamental things that we highlighted: one which you referenced which was termination rates how long people are staying on-claim and what our long-term view is of that.
The second is interest rates.
So we did adjust for what our perception is of interest rates drifting down here over the next 3 to 5 years and those are the 2 big aspects of that.
What we saw this quarter is different than those items on the incidence side and it's different than what we've seen over the last several years.
So if you look back to some of the increasing loss ratio we had in the past it was much more about lapse-ation or persistency of people staying on their parts [ph] as opposed to the utilization and incidence which we're seeing here.
So we did see that blip up in the quarter and we'll certainly keep a close eye on it.
But at the moment we think it's volatility.
LLC Research Division</strong> And let me just ask a second and final question on this topic.
It is sort of the same question but asked differently from the one that was asked I think by Ed and Tom and it's this.
Let's say you continue to experience elevated incidence.
I know you don't.
You've said that repeatedly.
You're calling this volatility.
But let's say you did experience it.
My question what would be the case -- what would cause you not to have to take a reserve charge in the face of ongoing elevated incidence? Others -- the other fellows asked you wouldn't that lead to a reserve charge? I'd like to know what would be the set of facts and circumstances under which faced with higher incidence on a continuing basis you wouldn't take a reserve charge? Sure.
I think that incidence is one attribute of the product line and so we’d have to look at all the other pieces including the ones we adjusted at year-end to see if they play out that way.
And the other thing that's important is we are able to increase prices in this line.
And so we are actively continuing to raise rates in this line to reflect the characteristics of that block.
And certainly an increase in incidence and utilization is brought [ph] would correspond with us continuing to raise rates.
And so I think that's -- you mentioned what's the one offset.
I'd probably highlight that as an important factor.
And Rick bringing into that the fact that we've really brought in some people into this exercise to be sure we've got resources behind this including a very senior addition to the team.
So Eric I mean we just aren't taking this issue of how we reprice and rethink that block of business casually.
There's an active process in place as Rick said to be sure that we're being as aggressive and as appropriately aggressive as we can be on pricing and repricing.
From Sterne Agee John Nadel is up next.
Research Division</strong> I guess to beat the Long-term Care horse to absolute death can you just update us -- Rick you mentioned pricing.
Can you update us on where you stand with respect to the pricing actions? Maybe guys give us an update on state-by-state approvals the expectation for impact to premiums over what period of time again.
So I'll take you through what we've seen with regard to our filing process on individual Long-term Care.
The plan's still on track.
I wouldn't give you much more update than take some time to implement those once they've been approved and they have to go through the process of notification et cetera.
I would say going forward we're going to see where price stands.
But it'll be on a much more -- on a continuum.
These aren't going to be initially weighted to pricing.
These will be ongoing to be ongoing discussions that we have with states with regard to the particular block of business that they have there.
And so to go through a process of kind of an update and a status check I think will be different.
We'll certainly let you know as the premium starts to flow in and what our expectations are around that going forward.
But so far we're still on track.
I'd take you back to the metrics we saw in the fourth quarter and they look very similar to that.
Research Division</strong> Okay helpful.
I guess separately the change in your definition of operating earnings and treating these I guess pension-related costs as nonoperating item could -- I'm just curious what precipitated that? And why are you making that adjustment? I'm just trying to understand the theory.
When you look at the operations of our business we certainly try and be consistent across the board.
And I would say this item that we're talking about -- we're not talking about our total pension expense.
We continue to have the service cost running through which reflects the increasing level of our pension.
What we're talking about here is the movement in the actuarial gain or loss which is very similar to capital gains and losses in the portfolio in that it will get marked and it will change and we'll see gains.
And that today comes through the income statement although over a longer period of time.
But we think it looks much more like capital gains and losses.
And we have seen other companies out there that do something similar and we thought that was appropriate for our business.
Research Division</strong> Can you give an example of couple of companies that you've seen do this? GE IBM.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So nobody in the peer group though? I don't believe there's anybody that I cover who has done this.
No.
I don't believe there is.
And so we're looking at it but I would say there's an awful lot of folks out there that do look at capital gains and losses or things that are similar to that as nonoperating items and we put this in that category.
Research Division</strong> Understood okay.
And then 2 quick ones then.
Did you see any benefit in the quarter from prepayment income? Was it in line with expectations above below? Yes.
I think John it was pretty consistent with what we saw on the first quarter last year and relative to the fourth.
Actually it was a little bit lower than last year and pretty much in line with what we saw with in the fourth quarter.
The thing about it it varies by line of business.
It just depends on the bond that's called and what product line portfolio that we're holding it in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last one is more for Tom Watjen.
Just looking at the sales results in Unum UK.
And if I go back in time when you made the management changes there I think at least in part one of the things that you highlighted was you weren't all that pleased with the mix shift that had been occurring in the U.K.
away from disability toward group life and yet this quarter I see dramatic increase in group life sales year-over-year not that disability didn't grow either.
But is there anything we can take away from the quarter's results in that regard? No I don't think so John.
I think we said across all of our businesses we -- obviously there are parts of our business that are opportunistic.
And occasionally we're going to see things that if we can price the business properly we're going to be opportunistic.
And I think you saw that to a degree in the U.K.
results in the quarter.
There are a few cases for example that were reasonably large but ones that again we could obtain on a very attractive price.
And as Jack mentioned in his comments other than this quarter we've had a pretty good run of 3 quarters of pretty good results in the group life line in the U.K.
So I think that discipline you referred to we're very much staying with.
Across all of our businesses we can see opportunistic things come along which can cause spikes.
In Unum US for example you'll see the spikes in large case when you see those kinds of opportunities.
So nothing has really changed there.
Again our fastball and our presence in the U.K.
is dominated by our disability franchise and we really have with Jack's leadership I think really brought more focus to that.
We're very engaged in the public policy debate in the U.K.
about the role private disability can play in the broader sort of public policy arena.
So please don't misread that quarter in terms of a shift back to some things that I think as you rightfully point out we were trying to move away from.
Up next we'll hear from Sean Dargan Macquarie.
Just following up in the U.K.
I think the consensus now is that the U.K.
is in full-blown double-dip recession.
Does that change either the top line or bottom line guidance that was given for 2012? No.
And Jack maybe you can speak a little bit again to just how if at all you're seeing the recession impact your business.
Yes clearly the interest rate environment is having an impact on our business.
Natural growth is weak in the U.K.
as it is in the U.S.
and isn't -- we didn't get the 0.5% lift in natural growth in the U.K.
I think a full-blown double-dip recession is a little harsh.
There was a small 2-quarter decrease but it was like 0.2% dips.
They expect low but growth for the remainder of the year.
But actually in kind of getting back to John's question as well I think the recessionary pressures are more than offset by a better competitive environment in the U.K.
We felt much better about the 40% increase in our GIP sales than we did about what happened in group life which was opportunistic.
But those sales were actually across the board in all size levels.
We've seen in the U.K.
particularly in the financial services industry several major banks come out and request proposals to insure all of their bank employees which is something that is new to the U.K.
and a very positive sign for our business because that's the direction our strategy is going.
And a lot of companies look to what the banks and other major employers in the U.K.
do as they're thinking about their own benefit design.
So we think that's a positive movement.
We’ve begun to have some success in selling additional -- in selling and convincing in-force customers to insure additional employees under their schemes which is a really positive sign again consistent with our strategy.
And so in the U.K.
our growth story isn't necessarily as focused on the economy growing as it's focused on expanding the number of employees that employers choose to provide coverage to in the U.K.
Okay.
And then just one quick one on Colonial Life.
The sales in Accidents Sickness and Disability were maybe a little lighter than I was expecting.
Is there some change in the competitive environment in that line? Randy you want to pick up on that? And even just maybe as Sean indicated just talk a little bit on the environment in addition to that one particular product.
Not seeing any significant change in the competitive environment.
I mean it's been intense for some time now.
And our real issue in the first quarter was on the new account sales side of things where we just had smaller average case size on average.
We were very pleased with our sales in all of our product segments in terms of existing account sales.
So those were up nicely.
So we're staying very focused on our core commercial market and in public sector we have excellent opportunities there Sean.
And really not seeing anything new there that's causing us not to be optimistic about the future in those lines.
I think actually operator we'll maybe move to our last question.
I think we're bumping up against our time limit.
Our final question today will come from Ryan Krueger Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> Sorry to ask yet another question on Long-Term Care.
I'm not sure if you said this on the call.
If so I missed it.
But was incidence elevated in both the group and individual businesses? Or was it more pronounced in just one area? Rick you want to take that one? Yes certainly.
It was actually on the individual side which you would expect.
We talked a little bit earlier about the age differential in 2 blocks so that's what you’d expect.
And it was primarily on the individual side.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a general question on statutory reserving.
Outside of New York when you look at reserves at the end of the year and run cash flow testing for any business do you then always compare on a holistic basis the reserve adequacy of the company taking into consideration shortfalls in some businesses and redundancies in another? In other words if you could just confirm [ph] at the end of the year that you maybe should add to Long-Term Care reserves but then you thought some of the other businesses were redundant would that necessitate a reserve increase on a stat basis? Rick you want to pick up on that? I don't want to end on that but I think there's -- let me talk a little bit about that which would be very similar to what we talked about at Investor Day which is this is an entity-by-entity view of the business.
In some entities and the practices are slightly different some of the entities you are able to look across the company and when you do cash flow testing as you would expect because there are offsets that obviously happen.
And some entities you do it product-line-by-product-line in cash flow.
So you would come up with different answers in terms of how you go through that.
But I think as you look at our year-end results and how we go through we're certainly feeling good about -- our statutory earnings are flowing across the board and we expect that to continue.
LLC</strong> And just to clarify is New York the only subsidiary where you do look at it on an exact line-by-line basis versus consolidated? I hesitate to be sure in aggregate.
But that's certainly one of the entities that they do look on a line-by-line basis.
That's the regulation.
That would be true of everybody.
Thank you.
And thank you all for taking the time to join us this morning.
And this will complete the first quarter 2012 earnings call.
And again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
We would like to thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Unum Group's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead sir.
Great.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call for Unum.
Our remarks this morning will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause the results to differ appears in our filings with the SEC and are also located in the section titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors on our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2011 as well as our subsequently filed Form 10-Q.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website at www.unum.com.
I'll remind you that statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found on our website also in the Investors section.
Participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen our President and CEO; and Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; and also the presidents of our 3 business segments Kevin McCarthy for Unum US; Randy Horn for Colonial Life; and Jack McGarry for Unum UK.
And so now I'll turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Thank you Tom and good morning.
As you saw from our announcement last evening operating earnings per share grew by 3.9% this quarter and despite the headwinds I'm pleased with the performance of most of our businesses.
Let me highlight a few points.
First Unum US and Colonial continued to generate solid results striking a good balance between growing the businesses while maintaining strong predictable profitability.
The Unum US premium grew 4% as we continued to see strong sales growth especially in our core markets and voluntary benefit lines and persistency was solid across most of our product lines.
When combined with a stable benefit ratio this business continues to generate a consistent ROE of between 13% and 14%.
At Colonial premium grew at about 5% this quarter.
And while sales were relatively flat year-over-year the margins in this business continue to hold up quite well and the result is that this businesses continues to generate a consistent return on equity of between 16% and 17%.
You'll see that the earnings for this business are down slightly year-over-year and this is due to extraordinary high investment income last year and not a weakening the underlying business.
Next with all that said I am generally pleased with our operating performance but more exceptionally with our Unum UK business.
While it remains solidly profitable and generated a return on equity around 12% this quarter the level of profitability and the volatility of our results in this business are below our expectations.
While this is our smallest business it is a business and marketplace we like a great deal and I am confident that we can over time improve the performance of this business through pricing actions rebalancing our mix of business and more consistent operating performance and Rick will touch on that further in his remarks.
We you'll also -- you will see too the results for the quarter in our Closed Block segment improve somewhat over our first quarter results.
That was the case for both our Individual Disability business as well as our Long-term Care business which as you may recall was added to our Closed Block segment in the fourth quarter of last year.
New claim incidence in Long-term Care returned to more normal levels this quarter from the spike we saw in the first quarter.
We said at the time that it would take a few quarters for the Long-term Care block to settle down and that seems to have been the case.
That block will continue to be a challenge though and Tom and Rick will both touch on this further in their remarks.
Now turning to our investment results.
This past quarter was another strong quarter despite what obviously remains a very challenging investment environment.
Today's extremely low rates will continue to pressure our investment income results but we are working to mitigate this impact by implementing rate increases on new sales and renewals.
While interest rate pressure will likely persist for some time our credit quality remains strong and we are not going to deviate from the disciplined investment strategy which has served us so well through these difficult financial and economic times.
We will sacrifice yield as need be to maintain a solid high-quality investment portfolio.
And lastly our capital position remains in very good shape with our risk-based capital level at 404% above our target range of 375% to 400% that for the year and all-in company cash was at $564 million.
We continue to buy back stock repurchasing around $125 million this quarter which brings our total repurchases over the past year to $550 million.
You saw that our board approved a new share repurchase authorization and Rick will touch on that in his comments.
I might add that in addition to repurchasing stock dividend actions remain a part of our playbook as evidenced by the 24% dividend increase we announced in May the fourth consecutive year in which we have increased our dividend.
So in summary I continue to feel good about our position.
Our overall operating trends are solid; our business unit returns are well above industry averages; our investment portfolio remains in excellent shape; and our capital position exceeds our long-term targets providing us with significant financial flexibility.
And looking ahead we expect cash flow to remain healthy allowing us to continue to return capital to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividend increases something I continue to believe has great value in these unsettling times.
Given the weakness we have seen primarily in our U.K.
business we are adjusting the outlook we provided last year at the Investor Day meeting.
We now believe that it will be slightly below the target range of 6% to 12% growth in operating earnings per share and Rick will touch on that more in just a moment.
Now I'll turn things back over to Tom for an overview of our operating results.
Tom? Great.
Thank you Tom.
As you can see from our press release yesterday we reported net income of $216.4 million for the second quarter of 2012 or $0.76 per diluted common share compared to net income in the year-ago quarter of $227.6 million or $0.74 per diluted common share.
Included in net income for the second quarter of 2012 are after-tax nonoperating retirement-related losses of $7.5 million and a net realized investment loss of $1.4 million.
Included in last year's second quarter are nonoperating retirement-related losses of $5.2 million and a realized investment loss of $2.2 million.
So excluding these items after-tax operating income was $225.3 million this quarter or $0.79 per diluted common share compared to $235 million or $0.76 per diluted common share in the year-ago quarter.
Turning to business segments operating income for Unum US segment increased 3.5% to $212.7 million in the second quarter with premium income increasing by 4.2% and both the expense ratio and benefit ratio showing improvements relative to the year-ago quarter.
Operating income in the Unum US Group Disability line was $70.4 million dollars in the second quarter compared to $78.7 million last year.
While premium income increased 1.7% over last year due to favorable sales and persistency trends total revenue did decline fractionally or by 0.2% as net investment income declined 7.5% due to a lower level of miscellaneous investment income lower assets allocated to this line and a slight drop in the investment yield.
The benefit ratio was 84.7% in the second quarter up slightly from the year ago 84.4% but down slightly from the first quarter of 84.9%.
In the Group Life and AD&amp;D line operating income increased 10.2% to $57.3 million in the second quarter benefiting from an increase of 7.2% in premium income and higher net investment income due to a higher level of miscellaneous net investment income.
And this offset an increase in the benefit ratio to 71.9% from 70.3% in the year-ago quarter.
In the Supplemental and Voluntary line second quarter income increased 13.5% to $85 million.
The year-over-year improvement was primarily driven by solid growth in premium income which increased 5.7% as well as favorable risk experience.
Moving to Unum U.K.
operating income in this segment declined to GBP 19.1 million from GBP 34 million in the year-ago quarter.
The benefit ratio increased to 85.4% in the second quarter from 69.8% in the year-ago quarter while premium income in local currency increased 1.5%.
Results in both the Group Disability and Group Life's business lines were below year-ago levels.
Concluding our core operations Colonial Life reported a decline in operating income up 6% this quarter to 67.6 million.
Premium income increased by 5.3% which is generally consistent with the rate of premium growth we've seen at Colonial Life over the last several quarters.
In addition the benefit ratio of 52.5% is in line with our expectations for this business segment.
The results of the Closed Block segment showed a decline in operating income to $25.7 million from $30.4 million in the year-ago quarter with a strong improvement from the first quarter operating income of $15.4 million.
Premium income declined by 1.4% due to the ongoing wind down of the Individual Disability Block.
For the Corporate segment we reported an operating loss of $25.9 million in the second quarter compared to a loss of $17 million in the second quarter last year.
Net investment income is lower due to lower asset levels a lower portion of assets invested at long-term interest rates and a decrease in investment income attributable to tax credit partnerships.
The interest in debt expense was stable at $32.2 million in the second quarter compared to $32.3 million in the year-ago quarter.
And finally the tax rate in the second quarter is lower this quarter due primarily to the release of an $11 million tax liability related to unrecognized tax benefits.
So now I'll turn the call over to Rick McKenney for further analysis.
Rick? Great thank you Tom.
This morning I'll cover the margin trends we experienced in our business segments this quarter a view on our growth trends and we'll also provide an update on our investment results and capital position and outlook for the second half of the year.
First on our operating results in the second quarter I'll start with Unum US.
It was another very good quarter for the Unum US segment with operating earnings growth of 3.5% and generally solid risk experience.
Sales growth and persistency continued their positive trends as well.
Starting on risk results for Group Disability the benefit ratio was in line with the average of the past 2 years at 84.7% in second quarter.
This quarter compares to the first quarter ratio of 84.9% and 84.4% in the year-ago quarter.
Submitted new claim incidence trends for long-term disability were slightly higher but with an average smaller claim size and higher claim recoveries the financial impact was neutralized.
These favorable trends in LTD continue to be offset by somewhat weaker results in our short-term disability claim experience.
We again saw higher paid incidence rates and higher average weekly indemnities.
We believe the actions we are taking with pricing will firm up these results in STD over time.
Importantly we have not seen these trends in short-term disability claims trending through to our long-term disability results.
On the investment side the interest reserve margin for this line declined 91 basis points -- 90 to 91 basis points this quarter from 97 basis points in the previous quarter.
And we expect this margin to continue to gradually decline over the next several quarters given today's extremely low new money yields.
Given the environment it's also likely that we will work in reductions to our new claim discount rate like we did in the third quarter of last year.
We'll balance this against a very healthy margin that we built up over the past several years on our inforce block and our ability to adjust pricing as business renews.
Overall we remain very pleased with our Unum US Group Disability results and the strong consistent profitability that this business line continues to generate.
The Group Life and AD&amp;D line was a very strong earnings contributor this quarter at $57.3 million up 10%.
Premium income increased by 7% and net investment income benefited somewhat from a higher miscellaneous net investment income this quarter which together produced revenue growth of almost 8%.
The benefit ratio was 72% in the second quarter consistent with the first quarter but up from a year ago level of 70%.
Due to higher average claim size which was somewhat offset by lower submitted claim incidence.
The Supplemental and Voluntary line within Unum US produced its highest quarterly earnings this quarter with earnings of $85 million an increase of 13.5% from last year's second quarter.
Premium growth this quarter was 5.7% driven by almost 9% growth in the voluntary benefits line.
Risk experience was also very good with a benefit ratio of 49%.
In the Individual Disability recently issued line we saw a stable risk experience with lower paid claim incidence rates and higher claim recoveries.
In the voluntary benefits line we experienced lower claims and a lower average claim size for the voluntary disability line.
The Supplemental and Voluntary line remains an attractive growth opportunity for our company as well as a significant source of earnings.
Turning to the U.K.
our results were weaker than we expected with operating earnings declining to GBP 19 million with unfavorable risk experience in both the Group Disability and Group Life lines.
For Group Disability the unfavorable risk experience was driven by a combination of higher average claim size and a lower average size of claims recovered -- claim recoveries.
New claim incidence trends were generally flat but we did experience a lower level of declines.
Group Life experience was driven by both higher volumes and average size of claims.
Clearly these results are well below what we believe this business segment can generate and what it has historically generated.
Again in this quarter we saw different types of volatility which added to the challenge.
But there are underlying pricing challenges we have seen in recent years that we need to address.
We've talked about our pricing on the Group Disability side in last year and we continue to take price to return to profitability to the levels we've seen.
The Group Life business has been more challenged in most recent quarters.
It can inherently be more volatile given the size of the policies we write.
But to restore the baseline profitability we have come to expect it comes back to raising prices.
Overall our outlook for the U.K.
remains positive but we do have work to do over the next several quarters and years to restore ROEs back to the 20% level from our current level of 12%.
In the near-term we expect quarterly earnings targeting a range of GBP 20 million to GBP 25 million but we may continue to see volatility outside those bounds as we work to improve performance and contain this volatility.
Moving to Colonial Life this segment produced another solid quarter.
Results were lower than last year which benefited from unusually high miscellaneous and investment income but in line with our expectations.
The loss ratio was slightly elevated in this year's second quarter but they also are in the range of expectations.
This is a very solid result that produced a 16.5% ROE for this quarter.
Concluding my comments on margins we're pleased to see the results of the Closed Block Long-term Care line of business improve from the result of the first quarter.
New LTC claims return to a more normal level this quarter after the spike we saw in the first quarter and the interest adjusted benefit ratio declined to 87.8% in the quarter from 91.2% in the first quarter.
The contribution from our Long-term Care line remained below what we feel this line can generate over the longer term but this quarter's performance was a strong improvement from the first quarter and indicative of what we expect from the Closed Block in total over the near-term.
Moving on to our sales trends we remain very pleased with the trends we're seeing across our business line.
Unum US continued the strong trend we have seen for the past few quarters with total sales for the second quarter increasing 9%.
For the Group Disability and Group Life and AD&amp;D combined sales were also up 9%.
With sales in the under 2 000 life core market increasing 11% and comprising about 3/4 of the sales mix.
Voluntary benefit sales were also good at increasing 8% for the quarter.
Persistency was also very high for Unum US at 91.7% for Group Long-term Disability and 91.6% for Group Life for the first half of the year.
Given these strong trends we produced 4% premium growth for the Unum US segment again in the second quarter with minimal help from the external environment or natural growth in the marketplace.
In the U.K.
we continue to see somewhat better pricing trends in the market and with that we are seeing better sales results particularly in the Group Disability line.
Group Disability sales increased by 10% in local currency with positive trends in both the core and large case markets.
You'll note that our Group Life sales were flat this quarter as we firm our pricing in this line as part of our strategy to improve the profitability in this segment.
And finally premium increased 5.3% in Colonial Life this quarter consistent with the growth trends we've seen in recent quarters.
New sales in total were essentially flat and we are slightly more encouraged with the core commercial market sales increase by 2%.
The sales trend this quarter were consistent with the trends we've seen in the recent quarters.
Sales to existing accounts remain generally strong while sales to new accounts are more of a challenge.
Moving on to the balance sheet and the investment portfolio we continue to be pleased with the excellent credit quality of our portfolio.
The net unrealized gain position for our fixed maturity securities stands at $6.4 billion at the quarter end and our watch list of potential problem credits remains very low.
Net realized after-tax investment gains and losses on our portfolio was essentially breakeven on the quarter.
Currently in the investing world the challenge continues to be the low interest rate environment there is no question it's difficult to put money to work at attractive yields.
We continue to be selective in our asset purchases and as a result the overall portfolio yield continues to hold up relatively well.
The portfolio yield now stands at 6.59% compared to 6.67% at year end.
Similar to the first quarter we continued to maintain higher-than-normal cash balances for our product portfolios as we search for the best possible investments.
We think that is the right decision but it does create a drag on our net investment income relative to our expectations coming into the year.
We would like to catch up and be fully invested in the second half of the year but we will remain selective and be opportunistic as possible.
As such net investment income for the balances of 2012 is likely to run below our initial outlook coming into the year.
With regard to the balance sheet our capital position continues to be very healthy.
Statutory net income was $158 million for our traditional U.S.
life insurance company this quarter.
Our run rate remains very solid and continues to support our capital model that generates about $500 million of free cash flow for the year.
So weighted average risk-based capital ratio for our traditional U.S.
life insurance companies is approximately 404% above our 2012 target range of 375% to 400%.
Holding company cash and marketable securities totaled $564 million in quarter end in line in the first quarter level of $575 million.
During the second quarter we repurchased $125 million of our stock.
So for the first half of the year we have completed $300 million of our $500 million plan.
We also announced yesterday that our board has authorized a $750 million share repurchase program.
Our previous repurchase authorization is due to expire on August 2 today and this new authorization will cover our expected repurchases for the balance of 2012 and give us flexibility as we develop our capital management plans for 2013.
And closing with a comment on our outlook as we included in our earnings release and Tom mentioned earlier we now believe that growth in operating earnings per share for 2012 will be below the range of 6% to 12% we originally discussed at our Investor Meeting last November.
The primary driver for the lower outlook is the underperformance of that Unum UK segment that has emerged in 2012 and likely will continue for the balance of the year.
Our outlook for Unum US and Colonial Life has not changed.
Now I'll turn the call back to Tom for his closing comments.
Thanks Rick.
In closing and before we take your questions as I said earlier I'm generally pleased with our results this past quarter.
We have continued to generate strong profitability and growth in Unum US and Colonial Life and have maintained a solid investment portfolio and capital position and continue to generate good cash flow that we can continue to return to our shareholders with dividends and additional share repurchases.
There is no question that we work to do to improve our Unum UK performance.
But I'm confident that our team has the solid plan in place that will lead to gradual improvement in the performance of this business.
Operator this completes our prepared remarks let us move to the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jamminder Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions.
First on the U.K.
business you've been expecting a recovery on the business but the margins have actually progressively declined.
So what gives you the comfort that results have bottomed and if you just talk about how long it will take you to reprice the book and if you're seeing competitors repricing as well as you're doing it? And then secondly on Long-term Care just talk about your comfort with Long-term Care reserves.
Part of the reason you took the charge was low interest rates have declined further since the last time you took the charge.
So just your overall comfort level with Long-term Care reserves? Let me start to answer the first and then ask Jack to certainly pick up.
But it think it is important to -- as you're alluding to put the U.K.
business in context because there have been some questions raised in the past.
And I think that there's no doubt we have a lot of confidence in that business in that market over the long term and again even in a quarter when frankly it didn't meet our expectations.
We still generated 12% ROE in that particular business.
But I'll come to that in a second we certainly have some work to do and Jack will talk further about that.
But I think this past quarter has caused a few of us just to step back and look at the performance actually of that business over a little longer-term for example the last 6 quarters.
If you look over the last 6 quarters what you see actually in our BTA and you probably know this is unfortunately a fair amount of volatility in our performance where it ranges -- a high BTA of about $34 million all the way down to a low of $19 million that we saw this past quarter and frankly that will level the volatility in BTA is very inconsistent with what we've seen in other parts of our business and so again that's why if we step back a little bit just a look at that business again each quarter each issue is explainable as Rick mentioned in his comments.
Sometimes it's around incidence sometimes it's around recovery sometimes it's around one product versus another.
But again that level of BTE volatility in my opinion isn't consistent with what we want to do on the rest of the company.
So again we've actually taken a hard look at a few actions that we can take in that market which Jack can expound on in just a second.
Some of those actions relate around pricing increases some of those actions relate around rebalancing our business in terms of the product selection the segmentation of the market the capital allocation we have to put in those products.
So we will have some room to improve in terms of just adding more consistency in our operating performance.
And so we think we got a good game plan to address those performance issues.
Again is not just about this quarter but it's about looking at this as a trend that we've seen here which again on one hand for us is a 12% ROE at a low point.
On the other hand it's got more volatility than we'd like to see in over the long term.
I'd also put this business in context as well.
Again very important strategic is us we see growth opportunities.
But if you look at just this past quarter the BTA in the U.K.
is about half of what we produced in Colonial.
It's actually less than any one of the 3 operating lines within Unum US so again to give a sense of context.
So with that Jack maybe just talk a little bit more about just some of the things that we're doing and why we have confidence in our ability to turn the ship and create less volatility in this business.
Great we are confident in the business.
We are already implementing significant price increases in the business.
The U.K.
business renews generally has a 2-year rate guarantee so it takes 2 years to go through the block of business.
We started renewals in the Group Life block in the first quarter and ramped them up.
In the second quarter we'll continue to ramp them up through the remainder of the year.
We're targeting double-digit rate increases in the block.
Through the first half of the year we've achieved a 9.5% rate increase and that has improved quarter-over-quarter.
The market is taking very similar actions to us.
They've seen the same increase in underlying mortality that we have.
Double-digit 10% rate increases in the life market are common.
We're being successful in implementing them.
So we're very positive about that the competition is reacting similarly they have reacted similarly by the way on the way down as prices went down and admitted commitment I believe to restore prices.
We're also looking at other things to control volatility looking at our business mix the relationship between income protection and Group Life the size cases that we write retention limits upon cases that we keep.
So we're going to continue to implement actions to improve both the overall results with rates the volatility that we see and try to lessen that and the effectiveness of our operations to implement actions to correct it.
Rick if I could turn to you on the Long-term Care.
First I think it's important Jimmy to talk about the context of the interest rate environment in the broader business.
As you heard from Jack and I mentioned in my comments we do have the ability to reprice much of our business to reflect the very challenging interest rate environment that we're seeing.
We're taking very aggressive action across all of our product lines to reflect the environment that we see ourselves in today.
More specifically to your LTC question around reserves I'll take you back to year-end in terms of the process that we went through.
At year-end when we look at the business and we will talk about at the time we saw the adjustments that we were making reflecting the interest rate environment and the go-forward of that will take us kind of about 3 to 5 years.
In terms of that I'd tell you in the current environment although the first half we did a pretty good job on that front as we sit here today.
And the real challenges is that it probably takes you to the shorter end of that range but I think we're still out there in that type of time horizon how interest rate impact as is in the our GAAP reserves and Long-term Care.
Our next question comes from Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Question for Rick if I could on the discount rate.
I just kind of want to understand how you're thinking about that because I think you said on the one hand you have a pretty healthy margin.
I guess it ticked down a little bit this quarter but it's still above your target.
But then you also suggested in your comments given the sort of the challenge in terms of new money rates you might be looking at a discount rate reduction at some point later this year.
So I was just hoping if you could maybe frame that up a little bit in terms of order of magnitude and then update us on any guidance in terms of what a 25-basis point change in the discount rate would do to sort of I guess annualized earnings or EPS.
Sure.
Let me put a little more color on the commentary I gave.
I think we're working with a couple of different items here.
One is the challenging investment environment we have.
And we want to in the market reflect that challenging environment in our pricing on a pretty rapid basis.
We're balancing that with over -- over different times we actually let that margin build up quite a bit.
So we're balancing those 2 items.
But as we did last year I'd point you back to third quarter of last year we were early in that process to actually reduce our discount rate.
We did it by 25 basis points and those were the kind of things we were looking at as we get in towards the end of this year because we have seen the all-in invested rate has come down pretty precipitously not just treasury yields but our investment yields at the kind of credit quality that we like to invest in.
So we're looking at that with no prediction as to exactly what the timeframe would be.
But I'm just pointing back to third quarter in terms of the type of actions we've taken the type of size and looking into the future on that.
And by the way we referenced 25 basis points as it was last year is about a $3 million impact to the overall company.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I think you told us your portfolio yield was -- I think I wrote down 6.59%.
Can you just tell where you're investing new money what rate today and I don't know if you mentioned which actual asset classes you're investing in.
If you could do that as well that would be terrific.
Sure.
When you look at that portfolio that does reflect a fair bit of what we've been able to do over time.
In the longer end of the curve it certainly support of that.
Putting money to work today is quite difficult especially on the short end of the curve as you look at spreads of the 10-year treasure rate we think A BBB type investment.
You're looking right around 3% 3.25% maybe.
Where we've been putting money to work today where we can most effectively has been in other asset classes such as commercial mortgage loans and private placements.
And so we've actually done that reasonably effectively.
As you get up to the long end of the curve those types investments that you make would be more opportunistic.
Different deals come to the market at different times and so it's hard to really give a general rule of thumb there as you get out towards the 30-year end of the curve but we're still being opportunistic on that front.
But very very challenging.
Actually maybe if I add to actually anywhere talking about the parallel pricing actions we're taking too because certainly the discount rate and the interest rate environment is certainly piece of the equation.
But we don't believe sitting on our hands either because there's a set fair amount of activity going on to be sure that we reflect this lower rate in a business where there are certain parts of our business that are interest-sensitive but there's also a lot of parts of our business that are actually not interest-sensitive either.
In the case of the discount rate change 25 basis-point discount rate change affects LTD rates by about 2%.
We were in the process of putting mid-single-digit rate increases into the LTD market place during the course of this year to reflect both the interest rate environment and the sort of slight but steady volatility that we've had in incidence.
As we look into 2013 in our renewal program I expect it to be pricing in the mid- to high single-digit range increases for the LTD again to reflect those same claims trends and also the expectation that low interest rate environment will continue and that we might need to take a change in the discount rate.
So we are going to price ahead of that.
Most of our other lines don't have that kind of interest rate effect at all.
STD and Life don't really get hurt at all by interest rates.
When we will look at that in the STD line of business though as a deterioration of industry-wide experience.
So we're are placing 10% to 15% price increases on STD.
But basically we'll offset this deterioration on STD prevalence.
So a lot of pricing activity going on and we think on the pricing side we're ahead of the curve in terms of low interest rates.
It's Rick again.
If I come back around on the interest rate side so I gave you some benchmarks of spot rates.
I think it's important to look at what happened with actuals too in the second quarter.
We actually put money to work at about 5.3% including some of the hedges that we have out there as those hedges roll off.
So those spot rates are tough.
I think in the first quarter as in the second quarter we've actually done a pretty good job of finding the right investments out there to back our portfolio.
I don't want to leave you the sense that everything we putting out there today is at 3%.
Our next question comes from Ed Spehar from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just had a follow-up question on the U.K.
Group Life business.
And I'm just wondering I believe April is the big renewal season and it seems like the recognition that you need to make some significant changes in Group Life has happened pretty recently.
I understand that you're putting rate increases in but I believe as recently as early May you had been looking for the U.K.
business to be sort of flattish in terms of earnings this year.
So I'm wondering if you could help us understand how quickly you're going to be able to sort of get the profitability back to targeted levels given that we kind of missed I think the big renewal season.
Maybe I'll ask Jack to start with that.
It's not just the renewals I think Jack will speak to but there's also certain segments of the market where you can change.
I think you are doing some work to change your strategy.
We don't need to get into too much detail there it's not just rate I think in Group Life that's sort of entering in the picture.
And maybe Rick if you could follow up just a little bit with just some of the outlook commentary.
Yes we are looking to change the business mix.
There are segments of the market that we pulled away from in selling new business.
On the renewal piece we were responding to this trend before it actually emerged so we were already doing rate increases they were a little bit lighter in the first quarter but we -- and during the second quarter which would include that renewal cycle we put double-digit rate increases into the market.
As I said we're right at the edge of double-digit.
Now we expect that by year end we'll be well into double digits.
We expect to continue that through the 2013 renewal season and we'll be optimistic from there going forward as the marketplace and competitors allow.
So I think we got a good jump on it.
We didn't wait until May or June before we started to do renewals.
A part of that is because the marketplace actually I think saw the blip in claims experience last year that we saw in the first half of this year.
And so the marketplace had already begun to respond with rate increases last year and we followed suit on that.
So I think we're -- excuse me we're in a better spot than you might otherwise think.
In addition even though April is the big month it's not like January in the U.S.
Things are much flatter in the U.K.
There's a good -- there's probably 40% of your renewals are still outstanding at midyear going forward.
So we're optimistic that we caught the curve.
And I think just Rick in terms of outlook I don't think we're making -- we're assuming it takes some time to get back to the levels.
But that's the thing I add to that.
I'll sort of just take you back to our comments we expect the second half of the year will be starting to run right between GBP 20 million to GBP 25 million which is down as you know relative to what we would have thought coming into the year.
That reflects really more of the volatility coming out of the book and just the natural fluctuations we've seen.
Pricing will take some time and so that's where -- even the actions Jack has taken thus far is going to be a process that works out really over the next couple of years although we are on top of it right now.
Research Division</strong> So should we assume to get back to the 20 ROE we're looking at 2 years out? I think that's probably a fair assumption.
We'll come back and talk about it again next quarter but I think that from what we see right now that's probably a fair assumption.
We'll take our next question from John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Most of my more technical questions have been asked.
Just wondering if you could give us an update on your view of the M&amp;A landscape.
I mean it sounds like most of the activity at least that we're all pretty well aware of that's out there is sort of outside your core.
But I'm just wondering if what the outlook looks like what the opportunity set looks like within your mix? Maybe Rick I'll start and ask you to supplement a little bit it too.
But I think John we really don't see a lot in our core.
I want to come back to you with core is we very much just stay in to the focus of the things we do well and not getting too distracted by obviously some of the other things which as you point out there's an awful lot of activity in some of the better areas.
There's enough places where obviously we want to play and have the characteristics of the things we can add value in.
So again we're staying very close to the marketplace I think if there are things to happen that are close to our space in the marketplace we're aware of them but it's a pretty quiet period of time right now because we don't see a lot of things that sort of fit within our sweet spot in terms of where we are as a strategy.
But I do think Rick again we're very much viewed I think both in the U.S.
as well as maybe even the other markets around the world as a potential buyer for properties which is a good thing.
But that patience is very important.
I would just add to that when you look at the processes there we're pretty much involved with anything that's -- and it's going on.
We're certainly introduced to most situations that are out there.
It's true that much of it does not meet our core.
I think the business line that we're in are very much favored by the markets today and so I don't think we'll see that much in the near term it's something we'll keep an active eye on.
And the second is as we look at M&amp;A it's relative to purchasing our stock.
It's a very very high hurdle to actually go and do there and relative to where our stock is.
So I think that's still our primary choice although we'd want to see a good acquisition that fits.
Research Division</strong> Certainly.
And then just a quick one on Colonial.
So I think your commentary has been and it's been pretty consistent now for it seems a couple of quarters.
But sales to existing accounts has been -- it's held in there pretty well.
Maybe we could even characterize it as reasonably strong.
But new client creation has been extremely difficult.
Would you characterize that pressure on the new client creation as still primarily economically driven? Or do you see that as more competitively driven because it appears  at least from my vantage point that Aflac is doing a little bit better on the U.S.
side and maybe I'm wrong.
But I'm just wondering if Aflac and Allstate and a few others are becoming a bit more competitive in that respect? Randy let me ask you to on touch that but maybe just to sort of set the framework a little.
Just -- we didn't go into in-depth in our remarks but glad you raised because certainly Colonial as Rick said in his comments has been a steady contributor to the results of the company.
But as you know we think about the market really in 3 segments our core commercial it is a small business was actually up about 2% or 3% for the quarter.
Our large commercial actually is up pretty nicely for the quarter.
The decrease was really more on the public sector.
So as always there's a segmentation process that applies to our core when it comes to market and I think some of the work that's been done certainly has improved our positioning.
For example in the core commercial marketplace we continue to see good results there.
But with that Randy maybe you could add a little color to the market and what we're seeing because I think sometimes the headline result doesn't necessarily translate into what's really happening in the market place.
Sure Tom.
From an economic standpoint there certainly are still some headwinds out there for everyone.
There is no question about that.
I mean one of the key things we look at is consumer confidence and levels of discretionary income and that type of thing.
But we're working through that just fine.
So that's not a huge and not a new issue for us by any means.
There is rising levels of competitive intensity out in the marketplace with a lot of different carriers getting into the voluntary space.
But as Tom said overall we feel comfortable with the activity levels and the success we're having in our core commercial markets.
The real pressure this quarter was on new public sector sales and we just had a couple of real tough comparisons with the second quarter last year where we had a couple of larger cases on the public sector side.
So really John no fundamental concerns.
We feel like we're getting the right products and services out into the marketplace.
We have good steady growth in our agent account and new offices that we're opening new sales offices et cetera.
So we feel pretty good about the fundamentals and in the market overall and where we can take things.
So again economy is still not our friend but we can overcome that and feel like we have good prospects going forward.
Our next question comes from Christopher Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question just on capital management I guess I was a little surprised by the buyback activity in the quarter.
I guess one just given where the shares were trading.
And two just given the smaller window you guys have in 4Q so should be thinking that you guys kind of get through the rest of your $500 million authorization in 3Q? Rick you want to pick that up? Certainly Chris.
Actually when you think about the buyback activity we've done $300 million year-to-date.
Our second quarter actually looks quite active.
When you think about the rest of the year another $200 million to deal.
I won't tell you exactly when we'll do it.
We certainly see value in our shares today and where they're trading so we will be active.
But right now we are sticking to our $500 million for the year so that is our expectation.
We still look back to our capital generation model and say in still quite an uncertain environment that we want to spend excess that we're generating and we also keep some pretty healthy capital levels behind that.
So I think that's how the layout plays out between third and fourth quarter.
I'd love to see how that goes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the tax rate was lower due to the tax accrual.
Curious as we look to the back half of this year is there any other kind of onetime tax items that kind of are on the horizon? There's always a lot going on in the tax line.
And so we -- there's still some of that.
I think as you look out to the year probably lead you to an overall tax rate for the full year of right around 30% which we'd say is a little bit lower in the third and fourth quarter than our expectations.
We think there may be some couple of small onetime items that come through which bring that tax rate down maybe in 29% to 30% type range.
Research Division</strong> And then just quickly for Jack on the U.K.
book.
I guess the Group Life I wanted to see if it's at all possible to kind of split out the legacy kind of your older Unum clients in the U.K.
versus the book of business that grew a bit more substantially when AEGON maybe exited the business a few years back.
Yes.
One of the things in the U.K.
is the entire block tended to be priced on a consistent basis.
And so as rates in the marketplace fell and we followed that trend we were renewing old cases as well as younger cases.
So if you look at the cases rating is pretty similar across the block similar opportunities for rate increases across the block.
So it's not like in the U.S.
where you might get more aggressive on new sales and have a higher rate on your existing cases.
We'll take our next question from Ryan Krueger from Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> I had a follow-up on the discount rates.
Rick I wasn't sure if I correctly heard the earnings impact from a 25 basis-point change because I think in your investor presentation last year you said $14 million annually is that correct? That is correct annually.
I gave you a the quarterly number of $3 million.
LLC</strong> And then you also made some discounted changes last year on the newer Individual Disability Block and I think you also made some changes in the U.K.
Should we be expecting some adjustments there as well? I'm not sure what you're referring to on the Disability Block in the U.K.
Hard to predict and will reflect the interest rate environment there as well.
But we don't see the same kind of pressure we see in the U.S.
for similar pressures on new money investing.
But in terms of adjustments and discount rates it's not of the same magnitude as in the U.K.
LLC</strong> And then just lastly when I look at the reserve real forwards in your supplement the group disability recoveries has been pretty favorable now for a few years and then this quarter was even better and I think probably the best you've had.
Can you just talk a little bit about what factors are driving this if you can continue around these levels? In the recoveries as you said we've been outperforming on the recoveries for quite a number of quarters now.
But even there you get some degree of volatility.
You quarters you are running at 110% actual expected recoveries.
Some quarters 113% other quarters 108%.
I think for the most part we're right on the money pretty consistently in terms of number of recoveries that we expect to occur but you always get sales volatility around the average size of the claim.
With the [indiscernible] you see bounce around this quarter.
I think we had a little bit more favorable performance on the recoveries side both in terms of price of recovery and number of recoveries.
But I do expect it to continue.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Just what's changed versus a few years ago? When I just look at the disclosure seems like there's a significant improvement relative to what it was a few years ago.
Is it that you're making more conservative upfront assumptions on recoveries or is it that recovery rates have actually improved? I don't think there's much of a process change or anything like that.
I think we've got a very seasoned and well-oiled organization and that organization consistently performs.
I think I don't want to speculate but the economy begins to put consistent pressure.
And the economy probably baiting just people to return to work a little bit more aggressively perhaps but that's pure speculation.
But I don't think we've made any internal process changes.
We'll take our next question from Mark from Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I guess just to Ryan's question I had similar thoughts why shouldn't claim recovery patterns start to taper off over time? I mean they've been very strong for a fairly prolonged period of time and just it's just things revert to the mean and you price for some of the improvement over time.
Why shouldn't it start to taper off? Yes I can turn around and say why should it taper off? Yes I guess recoveries are about sort of consistent disciplined management of your claims processes consistent and disciplined interaction with the claimants with the claimants' employer with the claimants' physician.
And so it's a process and I just don't see any reason that we should expect it to move.
Okay I think you touched on it but we made a very consistent steady investment in that part of our business.
I mean that's maybe stating the obvious but that is at the heart of what's stepped to this more consistent performance once the claim comes into our hands.
Yes and I mean exactly right.
And I do think Mark you're talking about reversion to the mean.
We've been performing at these recovery levels for 20 quarters 16 quarters whatever.
But it's a long time that we've been performing at this level.
And I think back 5 6 years ago when we started to put a lot of these properties in place we ramped up our organization for a lot of inventory control standard control all properties in place to measure we could have consistent performance and we've delivered on it but don't see any reasons for it to move.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Rick you made an interesting comment in your opening remarks and it related to the Long-term Care business and I'm not going to get the words exactly right but you kind of alluded to longer-term improvement in LTC.
Near-term this is kind of a sustainable level of earnings that we should be looking for.
And I guess when I look at that business loss ratios have been trending higher obviously despite rate increases.
Interest rates are obviously lower who knows what happens to those 3 4 years out? But I guess what gives you the confidence in making the statement about margin improvement in a business that has really only gone one direction for you and pretty much everybody else? That is a fair.
I think Mark when you look at it -- this is Rick.
When you look at the LTC business that statement really stems from the fact that we're very active in terms of raising rates in that business.
Been talking for that now for a couple of years but those premiums are just starting to flow.
So as you go back to when we started to raise rates the process of actually getting premiums to start to flow will take some time.
We'll be starting to see that now.
All the pressures you talked about are still challenging.
I mean when I talk about improvement it's slight improvement over time.
It's nonmaterial improvement.
But that will come from the repricing environment.
And Mark if I could add to Rick's comments I think I just would underscore the importance of having chosen to get out of that business completely put it into Closed Block and the focus that brings in our organization.
So I think to your point Rick and Kevin it's involvements as well.
Once you make that decision and put into a Closed Block it doesn't just sit there.
There's an awful lot of focus on many things including rate increases.
And I can assure you Mark that we recognize this as a substantial portion of our capital supporting that part of the business.
And there's not many new levers but there are levers that we can use to as Rick said slightly improve the performance there.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just one final question in the U.K.
I mean if you look at this business historically obviously very high returns 20%-plus you benefited from acquisitions you made a while ago that you put them on your own claims platform they performed well.
Obviously the last few years or the last couple of years have been much more disappointing.
I guess my question is how do we think about the true returns of this business longer term? I mean is this really a 13%- 14%-return business similar to kind of maybe what you'd expect in the U.S.
Or is there reason to think that it should structurally be higher in the U.K.
over the long term? Maybe I'll speak maybe I'll ask Rick to speak too.
I don't think Mark that we we've been saying actually for the last year or 2 -- those rates of return in the upper 20s and sometimes even into the 30s were not sustainable for any number of reasons.
I think obviously we've been trying to bring people’s expectations about the returns in this business.
I for one I think we believe as a management team this is still a business produce well above industry sorts of ROE.
That's why it's not going to get to those kinds of levels we saw before.
But you have to -- Jack and his team too.
The hope is that we're also doing is reducing the volatility of the BTA contribution as I mentioned in my comments just looking at the last 6 quarters was a low of 19 and high of 34 and bounced all round in between there.
So part of it is also just getting to the right above industry average kind of ROE.
There's also doing it at the business model that has more predictability in terms of its ability to produce a more consistent BTA performance as well.
Rick I don't know if you'll add anything.
I'll just add that when we look at that business we see things we can improve.
I think that's a key thing.
We've gotten to 12% ROE we see action items we can take to improve the business.
We see ability to take price into the marketplace and make risk selection and that differs from where we are today so I think that gives us confidence.
We can be higher than here today.
Jack I don't know if you have a follow-up on that.
My view too is that the market is different in the U.K.
There's only 4 major players in the business.
That business tends to be a very small part of what they do overall.
And there's a kind of market expansion opportunity in the U.K.
So the dynamics of the business in the U.K.
aren't the same today as they are in the U.S.
where you have 25 carriers you have deep penetration and there's a lot of fighting back and forth between carriers.
So as long as those dynamics are still in place I think you should still be able to get above industry returns on it.
It looks like from the queue we've exhausted our questions.
And so let me just thank you all for taking the time to join us.
I think as a couple of you mentioned there's an awful lot of reporting companies here in a relatively short period of time.
So we appreciate people taking the time.
Obviously we're all available for any follow-on questions.
And operator this will complete our second quarter 2012 earnings call.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Unum Group Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Senior Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead sir.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the third quarter 2012 analyst and investor conference call for Unum.
Our remarks this morning will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the SEC and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2011 as well as our subsequently filed Forms 10-Q.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website at unum.com.
I remind you that statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found on our website also in the Investors section.
So participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen President and CEO; and Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; and also Kevin McCarthy for Unum US and Unum UK; and Randy Horn for Colonial Life.
So now I'll turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Thank you Tom and good morning.
Overall the third quarter was a solid one for the company with operating earnings per share growing by 6.7% and I'm generally pleased with the results around the company and let me touch on a few of those here just to start the call.
First we continue to generate solid results in our 2 largest operating businesses Unum US and Colonial Life.
In both business segments we again experienced positive year-over-year growth in premium income and operating income.
The Unum US premium income grew 3.5% this quarter as we can continue to see positive sales momentum in our target markets and strong persistency across our major product lines.
Rich results also remain generally stable helping to produce a 3.4% increase in operating income for the third quarter.
At Colonial Life we saw similar results this quarter with 5.5% premium growth and operating income growth of 3%.
While Colonial sales results were down somewhat which is an area of focus for our team we continue to enjoy strong persistency across most of our market segments.
The return on equity for both of these businesses is very strong in the 13% to 14% range for Unum US and in the 16% to 17% range for Colonial Life and I'm very pleased with the consistency of performance of these 2 businesses.
Results of our Unum UK operations continue to underperform our expectations in the quarter.
The business in general remains very profitable and has produced a 12% return in equity so far in 2012 with our Group Disability business continuing to generally meet our expectations.
Our Group Life results though are disappointing and we are taking aggressive pricing actions and repositioning our Life Block to address this issue.
We've done this before and I'm confident that we will see gradual improvement here as well as we execute on this plan.
Rick will touch on this further in his comments.
Next the results of our Closed Block segment were in line with our expectations as the more favorable result from our Individual Disability line offset the somewhat weaker results in our long-term care line which not surprisingly continues to somewhat -- be somewhat more volatile quarter-to-quarter.
Rick will cover the performance of our Closed Block in his comments.
Now moving to our investment results.
We continue to generate very solid investment performance this quarter.
Today's low-interest rates though continue to put pressure on our net investment income and on those products which are more interest rate sensitive.
Since we are not expecting the rate environment to improve anytime soon nor willing to sacrifice investment quality in order to stretch for yield we are taking the actions needed to maintain our solid profit and reserve margins particularly in our Unum US and LTD business.
This includes adjusting our discount rate and increasing our pricing in the market.
You'll hear more about this in Rick's comments.
And finally our capital position remains in very good shape.
Our quarter end risk-based capital level of approximately 407% remains above our target range of 375% to 400% and our holding company cash position is $762 million providing us with significant financial flexibility.
We continue to balance maintaining a strong capital position with our goal of returning capital to shareholders.
In the third quarter we repurchased $100 million of stock which keeps us on pace to complete our plan of $500 million of repurchases for full year 2012.
When completed we will have repurchased over $2 billion of our common stock or almost 25% of our shares over the past 5 years.
While operating earnings growth in this environment remains challenging we remain committed to maintaining our consistent steady program of returning capital to our shareholders.
So in summary I continue to feel good about our company's position in what remains a tough environment.
We have been able to maintain a strong investment portfolio and capital position grow our businesses in several strategically important areas and generate consistent solid profitability across the majority of our businesses.
We've also continued to consistently return capital to our shareholders through our share repurchases and dividend increases while maintaining a solid credit rating and I would note that 2 of our rating agencies recently upgraded the company's ratings.
I'll now turn things over to Tom White for a review of our operating results this quarter.
Tom? Great thank you Tom.
As you can see from our press release yesterday afternoon we reported net income of $230.2 million for the third quarter of 2012 or $0.83 per diluted common share compared to net income in the year-ago quarter of $202 million or $0.68 per diluted common share.
Included in net income for the third quarter of 2012 are after-tax nonoperating retirement related losses of $7.6 million and an after-tax net realized investment gain of $13.8 million.
Included in last year's third quarter our nonoperating retirement related losses of $5.2 million and a net realized investment loss of $15.9 million.
So excluding these items after-tax operating income was $224 million for this quarter or $0.80 per common share compared to $223.1 million or $0.75 per diluted common share in the year-ago quarter.
Turning to the business segments operating income for the Unum US segment increased 3.4% to $216.3 million in the third quarter with premium income increasing by 3.5%.
The expense ratio improved on a year-over-year basis and risk experience was generally stable with the benefit ratio for the segment at 73% this quarter compared to 72.8% in the year-ago quarter.
Operating income in the Unum US group disability line was $74.5 million in the third quarter compared to $72.7 million last year.
Premium income increased 7/10 of 1% over last year due to recent favorable sales and persistency trends but total operating revenue declined by 9/10 of 1% as net investment income declined by 6.6%.
The benefit ratio as we'll discuss later was 84.9% in the quarter down from the year-ago level of 85.5%.
In the Group Life and AD&amp;D line operating income increased 7.3% to $56.1 million in the quarter benefiting from an increase of 6.9% in premium income as well as higher net investment income and lower operating expenses which offset an increase in the benefit ratio.
In the supplemental and voluntary line operating income increased 1.8% to $85.7 million with solid growth in premium income of 4.9% offsetting a slight increase in the benefit ratio.
Moving to Unum UK operating income in this segment declined to GBP 17.3 million from GBP 21.5 million in the year ago quarter.
Results in the group Life Line of business were significantly weaker than the year ago quarter while income in the group disability line improved over last year's third quarter results.
So concluding our core operations Colonial Life reported an increase in operating income of 3% this quarter to $68.7 million.
Premium income increased by 5.5% and the benefit ratio was slightly higher than a year ago.
Results in the Closed Block segment this quarter showed a decline in operating income to $25.6 million from $30.8 million in the year-ago quarter.
For the Corporate segment we reported an operating loss of $27.4 million for the third quarter compared to a loss of $20.8 million in the year ago third quarter.
Net investment income is lower due to lower asset levels a lower proportion of assets invested at long-term interest rates and a decrease in investment income attributable to tax credit partnerships.
Interest in debt expense was higher at $33.9 million in the quarter compared to $32.2 million in the year ago quarter reflecting our issuance of $250 million of 30-year senior notes during the third quarter.
It's important to remember that the negative impact on net investment income from the tax credit partnerships is offset by a lower income tax rate due to the tax benefits recognized as a result of the tax credit partnerships.
And finally the tax rate in the third quarter is also lower due to a reduction of $9.3 million in our income tax expense in the third quarter to reflect the impact of the U.K.
tax rate reduction on our net tax liability related to our U.K.
operations.
The reduction in our tax expense from a similar rate reduction was $6.8 million in the year-ago quarter.
These were driven by reductions in U.K.
income tax rates that were enacted in both the third quarter of 2012 and 2011.
So with that I'll turn things over to Rick McKenney for a further analysis of this quarter's results.
Great.
Thank you Tom.
This morning I'll cover the profit trends we experienced in our business segments this quarter a little more detail on our sales and growth trends and I'll also update you on our investment results and capital position.
First on the operating results of the third quarter I'll begin with Unum US where we had another strong quarter for the overall segment.
Operating earnings growth was 3.4% and risk experience was generally solid across the segment.
Focusing on risk results for group disability the benefit ratio remained generally stable at just under 85% for the quarter compared to 85.5% in the year ago quarter and 84.7% in the second quarter.
In the third quarter we lowered the discount rate for new claim incurrals on the Group Long-term Disability by 50 basis points.
While our interest reserve margin remained at a very healthy level of 86 basis points we continued our measured pace of new claim discount rate adjustments given the extraordinarily low interest rate environment.
This is particularly true for 10-year public and private bonds our primary assets backing this line.
As we've outlined in the past a discount rate reduction of this magnitude reduces quarterly earnings by about $6.5 million.
The impact of the discount rate change was largely negated by several factors related to risk trends this quarter namely stable paid incidence trends a lower average size of new claims and continued very good claim recovery experience as well as our ongoing price discipline on new sales and renewals.
Our profit margins continue to remain at healthy levels for the Group Disability business.
The Group Life and AD&amp;D line was also a strong earnings contributor this quarter at $56 million up 7.5% from last year.
The benefit ratio was 72.3% in the third quarter higher than the 70.2% in the year ago quarter due to an increased volume of large claims in the quarter.
Margins also remained very strong in our Group Life and AD&amp;D line.
The supplemental and voluntary line within Unum US continues to produce a very strong level of earnings for us with earnings of $85.7 million for the quarter.
Risk experience remained generally stable with a benefit ratio of 51.5% compared to 51% in the year-ago quarter.
These lines of business continue to be attractive growth opportunities for us with strong margins and consistent performance.
Colonial Life also continued to produce solid results with third quarter earnings of $68.7 million an increase of 3% from a year ago.
The benefit ratio remained relatively stable at 52.9% this quarter compared to 52.6% in the year ago quarter with higher mortality in the Life Line of business but favorable experience in the cancer and critical illness and accident sickness and disability lines.
Solid consistent results once again generating ROE in the 16% to 17% range.
Moving to Unum UK results continue to be challenging with third quarter operating earnings at GBP 17.3 million compared to a year ago quarter of GBP 21.5 million.
Results in the Group Life Line of business were negatively impacted by higher claim volumes and higher average claim sizes.
On the other hand results from the Group Disability Line improved on a year-over-year basis due to favorable claim incidents and claim recovery rates.
As we have discussed with you in recent quarters results in Unum UK can be inherently more volatile than most of our other lines of business because of the size of the policies we write and the relative size of this block of business.
In order to restore the profitability of this business we'll need to aggressively raise prices particularly with our Group Life policies.
We're working to do so with double-digit rate increases and expect to see improved results looking out over the next several quarters.
Concluding my comments on margin overall results in our Closed Block were in line with our expectations at $25.6 million this quarter.
Results in the Individual Disability line of business were stronger than normal with favorable risk experience as indicated by the interest adjusted loss ratio at 82.5% this quarter compared to 84% -- almost 85% in the year-ago quarter.
Long-term care results were slightly under our expectations with the interest adjusted benefit ratio at 91.3%.
Our year-to-date results of 90% are slightly above our expected range.
We experienced higher claim volatility this quarter with higher new claim incidence and a higher average claim size.
We continue to watch this closely but our experience to date has not changed our longer-term views.
As we look to our growth trajectory in Unum US we continue to see positive momentum in our sales results again this quarter with 4% overall sales growth driven by 10% growth in our Group Disability Line and 5% growth in our Supplemental and Voluntary Lines.
The sales mix was also encouraging with over 80% of this quarter's group product sales coming from the core market segments.
Premium persistency remains at a strong level for Unum US at 90.7% for group long-term disability and 91% for Group Life on a year-to-date basis.
With these positive trends we continue to produce good Premium growth of about 3.5% in our Unum US segment a good result given today's competitive market conditions and continued weak employment trends.
In the U.K.
sales results for the quarter were down about 20% in local currency with a sharp drop in Group Life Sales which are down 39% offsetting a 6.6% increase in the Group Disability Line.
We're aggressively pushing price increases into the market and clearly this is having a negative impact on group life sales.
You'll also note that the persistency for our major group lines in the U.K.
have declined this year with the Group Life persistency declining to 80% for 2012 today from 88% in the first 9 months of 2011 and we're pleased with the rate of increases that we're beginning to realize in the Group Life Line but as we've previously it will take several quarters to improve the profitability in this line.
Finally premium income increased 5.5% in Colonial Life in the third quarter in line with the premium growth trends we've seen in recent quarters.
New sales in total were down this quarter by 5.8% while new sales in our core commercial market segment were down less than 2%.
We experienced large declines in the large commercial market and in the public sector market.
We didn't see any dramatic changes in the market in the quarter just a continuation of decent sales trends within existing accounts but challenging trends with new account sales.
Moving on to the balance sheet and the investment portfolio this is very much a story similar to what we've experienced in the past several quarters.
A very good credit quality experience but a very challenging environment for new money yields due to the low level of interest rates as well as the tight corporate bond spreads available in the market.
Briefly on credit quality the net unrealized gain position on our fixed maturity securities portfolio stands at $7.3 billion at quarter end.
And our watch list of potential problem credits remains very low.
The net realized after-tax investment gain from our portfolio was slightly positive on the quarter.
The low interest rate environment continues to present a challenge though and the overall portfolio at the end of the quarter was 6.54% a reduction of 5 basis points from the prior quarter.
Our strategy for managing through this environment is centered on being selective in our asset purchases.
With tighter spreads in our core asset category of investment grade corporate bonds we've found better value and yield in other asset categories such as private placements commercial mortgage loans and below investment grade bonds.
We also continue to benefit from the hedges we have in place for our long-duration LTC portfolio that cover about 1/3 of our cash flows.
With selectivity comes a higher level of uninvested cash in our product portfolios.
We did make progress in the third quarter by reducing the amount of uninvested cash to less than $300 million at quarter end from over $400 million for much of the first half of the year.
The other important element of our strategy for dealing with low interest rates is to make adjustments to our discount rate assumptions such as we did with our Group Long-term Disability line this quarter and look to offset that higher cost by adjusting pricing on new sales as well as renewal business.
Moving onto our capital position we continue to be very pleased with the company's overall capital.
Statutory net income was $138 million for our traditional U.S.
Life insurance companies this quarter consistent with the year ago quarterly results and our run rate continues to support our capital model that generates above $500 million of free cash flow per year.
The weighted average risk-based capital for our traditional U.S.
Life insurance companies is approximately 407% remaining slightly above our 2012 target range of 375% to 400%.
Cash and marketable securities in our holding companies totaled $762 million at the end of the third quarter and we benefited from the debt issuance we completed in the quarter.
We issued $250 million of 30-year debt at a coupon of 5.75% taking advantage of today's low interest rates strong investor demand for corporate bonds and our own recent rating upgrades.
With this issue our leverage remains a very comfortable 25% and our coverage ratios are very healthy.
Our share repurchase activity in the third quarter totaled $100 million which brings us to $400 million for 2012 to date.
We expect to complete our planned $500 million of repurchases for the year in the fourth quarter.
Closing with a comment on our outlook we believe that growth in operating earnings per share for 2012 will be in the range of 3% to 6% based on full year 2011 operating earnings per share of $2.98.
We plan to discuss our 2013 outlook for operating results and capital management plans on December 17 when we'll host a meeting in New York.
Details of that meeting will be released soon but I'd ask you mark it on your calendars and join us that afternoon.
Now let me turn the call back to Tom for his closing comments.
Tom? Thanks Rick.
I'll close by saying again that we're generally pleased with our third quarter results.
Unum US and Colonial Life continue to generate solid premium growth and margins and we have continued to maintain a solid investment portfolio and strong capital position.
This certainly remains a very challenging interest rate environment but we are taking the actions necessary to effectively manage through a sustained period of low interest rates and the one area not meeting our expectations Unum UK I feel good about the plan we have in place to gradually improve our performance in this business.
While we remain focused on generating strong operating results we are fortunate that our cash flow and capital position remains strong allowing us to supplement our operating results with a consistent return of capital to our shareholders.
And operator this will complete our prepared remarks and please let's move to the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a question first on long term care.
Obviously you took up a pretty large charge last year and part of that was related to low interest rates.
Given the decline in rates and just corporate bond yields being lower what's your comfort with overall long-term care reserves and at what point would you need to consider taking another charge? And then secondly just on -- if you could talk about some of the things that you're doing in the U.K.
market as you mentioned you were raising prices but your persistency has declined and then I'm assuming it's because of that but does that imply that competitors are not following suit or maybe if you  could talk about the competitive environment in the U.K.
market as well? Well this Rick you want to pick up on Jimmy's first question on long term care? Yes Jimmy had a specific question on long-term care around interest rates and the impact on that line.
If I take you back to the year-end process we went through we adjusted our reserves and based that on an outlook that we had at that point in time of a difficult environment of a very low rate environment looking out in the 3 to 5-year range and adjusted our interest rate assumptions and our discount assumptions accordingly.
The world has gotten a little bit tougher in the investment grade market but what I would tell you as opposed to changing that outlook over the 3 to 5-year range it probably has brought it in at the current moment to the shorter end of that range and we'll have to continue to look on that but I would also caution there's a lot of other elements you have to look at though when you look at that line of business we isolated that element at year end last year but you also have to think about the things that we're doing in terms of price increases that we're taking actions that we're taking in line and continuing to do that.
So for that particular element we still feel fine with that assumption that we made at year end.
We did look out over the horizon just a short bit and doing that and it continues to be the case but it is a broader line that we'll continue to watch and go through and measure and manage.
I may Rick to that point I think since you mentioned that we are actively managing that business even though it's in a closed block it might be because I know it's on the people's minds as well.
Kevin if you could just take a minute to talk about just some of the actions that we have underway because we have really put quite a few resources behind being sure that even though it's closed that we're actively managing that business.
Thanks Tom.
Good morning Jimmy.
In long term care maybe the most important thing is our rate increase process.
That process is proceeding as we've mentioned in prior quarters it's not a one-time event it's kind of a dynamic renewal process.
We've filed to nearly every state at this point and we're so far at least achieving our objectives with approvals.
Some of those are full approvals some are phased in approvals and some are partial approvals.
It was a fairly wide range I guess of rate increases but ranging from the teens to upwards of 50%.
In total though those increases are very consistent.
The assumptions that we rolled into our models at the end of last year and into the first quarter when we took the charge and closed the block we'd expect those premiums to emerge in 2013 and into 2014.
Beyond the rate increased actions we have made a number actions in terms of shoring up management further increasing our claim management control processes quite similar to what we do in long-term disability.
So I think from an actively managed standpoint we have the right things in place.
Thanks Kevin.
Jimmy the other question was on the U.K.
and before I ask Kevin to pick a bit let me just again just come back to a couple of comments I made.
As you know that business continues to be very profitable it continues to generate over 12% return and frankly the LTD business in that market continues to perform reasonably well.
I think it's come out this morning very clearly the issue there is Group Life.
And you may recall when we made some changes actually a bit ago in terms of who's -- the leadership team and the structure of how we're running that business we did talk that under Kevin's response broad shoulders actually because some of the issues were confronted with in the U.K.
we find are very similar to ones that we went through in the U.S.
and I'm specifically talking about the actions we had to take around repricing and repositioning the Group Life business.
So when you talk about persistency and the cause and effect between pricing actions and persistency I say Kevin we're very familiar with how to sort of keep a good eye on how to balance those different things and maybe just speak to a little bit about what we're doing now in that marketplace.
Thanks Tom.
And I think this is kind of a straightforward problem and a straightforward solution.
We've got some issues in Group Life Line of business primarily driven by some previous underpricing some deterioration in mortality reflecting increased levels of incidence and higher average-sized claims.
What we're doing is putting in place an aggressive renewal program double-digit rate increases on average with some rate increases upwards of 30% depending upon the segment or the account.
In that process I would say it's still early in the game.
It'll take us a renewal cycle to get all the way through that.
I would expect some pressure on persistency both from customers who don't want to accept the rate increases and/or from some purging of the block that we'll do similar to what we did in the United States back several years ago.
As far as competitors go I would expect in general that they will follow but also in these kind of environments just as it happens in the United States sometimes companies take steps to back off of their renewal increases if they think that they're under persistency pressure or too great an amount of persistency pressure.
And so I would expect there to be a follow on from competitors but I wouldn't accept -- expect it to be sort of wholesale.
The other things that we're doing there in addition to rate increases are we are changing our mix of business much again like what we experienced in the United States.
Our larger case Group Life business has not performed nearly as well as our core market Group life business and so we'll be changing our mix of business and we're also tightening up some underwriting guidelines by segments and also reducing or eliminating some richer product features so all in all I think it's the same process we went through in the United States where we had significant success.
We'll go next to Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on long term care.
I guess Rick in response to Jimmy's question you spent some time talking about the interest rate exposure and the underlying assumptions there.
I guess I wanted to ask the same question as it relates to the claims experienced.
I think in your prepared comments you said the loss ratio kind of just north of 90 was a bit higher than your expectations so I was just wondering first what are your expectations in terms of loss ratios in that business and then how many quarters of north of 90% would we need to see before you might have to think about taking a reserve charge not necessarily for interest rates but for higher claims? Rick you want to take that one? Okay Suneet.
It is a broader question so I appreciate you bringing that back.
What I would say what happened in the quarter and what's happened year-to-date really is much more about what's happening in the short-term and volatility in claims experience.
We do not see that necessarily is a trend today and what's reflected in our reserves are much longer term trends.
So when you talk about -- this isn't about quarters we're looking at it it's about years in terms of looking at those trend lines.
And so I think it's hard to extrapolate off of anything in the quarter.
You've mentioned the expectations I -- we would expect actually the loss ratios in this line to be more in the high 80s than in the low 90s and so that's really where that's predicated from but it's one we continue to watch.
It is a line that we've been focused on and continue to focus on as Kevin's comments it's about actively managing that block as well as we go through that and so when you think about all our broader range of assumptions we'll go through a process as we are now at year end of looking across all of our lines of business not just long term care and looking at all the assumptions we have driven there but this is a much longer term process when you think about it and the claims experience that we have seen year-to-date a little higher than we'd expect but we don't necessarily see a trend there that would need to be reflected throughout the longer tail of the reserves.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So high 80s versus low 90s it doesn't seem like it's wildly out of your expectations just slightly kind of at the higher end? That's right and this is a line which will see volatility so I don't think we're overly concerned.
We don't -- we obviously don't like when results come in lower than our expectations but it's nothing that causes us necessarily longer-term concern.
I think your calibration about how far it's off is appropriate as well.
Research Division</strong> And my second question relates to the capital generation model.
That's a slide that you typically use in your presentations.
So I'm just kind of wondering where we sit today with this because it looks to me like the U.K.
the last time you did this slide you're talking somewhere the order of magnitude $100 million to $150 million of statutory net income.
Yes I'm not sure where we're running year-to-date but my guess is that we're a bit below that.
And then in terms of capital required to support growth your slide shows plus or minus 50 given the growth that you're seeing in the U.S.
my guess is that it might have some upward pressure.
So I guess my question is as we start to think about next year and I acknowledge that you're going to give us more guidance on this but should we expect that $500 million number given kind of these moving parts that I just mentioned to possibly have some downward pressure? Sure and let me answer that in some of the detail you had there because I think it's a good question and we will address that more as we get through the year-end process.
I'll tell you that capital model is very much intact even when you look at the U.K.
which you specifically asked we had $100 million to $150 million in dollars that we had there so if you look at the after-tax earnings on a U.S.
GAAP basis you're just slightly below that range and when you think from a statutory perspective it runs a little bit differently than that then so I think we'd probably be at the lower end of that range today where as we were probably at the upper end of that range as you look at it last year but it still hasn't broke through that.
And so we'll actually be looking for as we've seen over the last several halves I guess dividends coming out of our U.K.
companies which we've continued to take.
So that piece of the model's still intact.
We talk about our U.S.
statutory earnings continuing to be very good across the line and then in terms of capital consumption of the business we are certain to see the business grow.
We're happy about that and in terms of the Premium line break it to you the capital if you think about our product lines and that -- those that are growing are not heavily capital-consumptive.
So when you think about that that 50 is probably -- still much intact even though we're starting to see growth in the lines which do require a lower amount of capital.
So we think about the model a lot I'm glad you're focused on that and I'd say it's still very much are -- on track and we'll give you some more detail to that as we get to our Investor Day in December.
We'll go next to Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> This is Dan Altscher on for Randy.
Particularly as it relates to the sales environment the sale trends in Colonial kind of slowed down a little bit and then also in U.S.
in Group Life.
So can you talk a little bit about if anything in the competitive environment's changed or maybe just some tough comps or one-off sales from last quarter that slowed the trajectory down? Sure.
Actually maybe I'll ask -- we'll break it 2 pieces actually.
Maybe Kevin you want to talk a little about the Unum US sales trends again I think we feel pretty good actually about where things stand and the sustainability of that.
Yes I mean -- good morning.
Group Life sales this third quarter in general is the smallest quarter of the year in terms of sales so you're going get a little bit of volatility.
Also it's -- particularly in the larger case end of the market place in the quarter we didn't see anything particularly attractive at least in terms of the way in which we approach disciplined pricing core.
Core sales were still up so no I don't see anything really going on unusual in the Group Life marketplace.
I just think you can get a little bit of that kind of volatility in the third quarter because it's the smallest one.
And I say too Kevin your year-to-date sales are up about 9% actually across all lines and so I think the beauty of our Unum US platform is we have a whole breadth of offerings in the marketplace and the places actually we have targeted for strategic growth we are seeing a fair amount of strategic growth.
Lot of that is just because we happen to be we've got a good offering and we're -- we got a good connection with the marketplace.
And year-to-date Group Life sales are up 7% and into the core market they're up 8%.
So like I said I think it's more just quarterly patterns more than anything else and maybe a little bit the lack of attractive large case.
And then Randy maybe you can speak a little bit about to the Colonial sales results.
I mean I think it as everyone knows we really had 2 entrées into the voluntary marketplace.
One is through the MUS offering which is primarily our brokerage model.
That's kind of the marketplace where that gives us a different sort of more diverse way to come to the market with a more integrated offering the Colonial offering is a more limited offering but yet one that gets certainly to wide a certain -- very important segments of the marketplace.
And Randy you may just want to talk about some of the dynamics you're seeing there and again I would add as I mentioned in my earlier comments frankly I'm very pleased with the 5.5% premium growth we saw in the quarter and the continued ability to maintain very strong margins and returns actually.
And the one place we do recognize we're a little behind perhaps where we'd like to be is in sales.
I think Randy you can talk to some of the things we've got underway to try to improve those results.
Sure Tom thanks.
Yes overall we continue to see the primary pressure in our sales on the large case side of things as Rick pointed out and also sales to new accounts.
We are pleased on a year-to-date basis with our sales to existing accounts and very very pleased with our strong persistency of our business that help generate that 5.5% premium growth.
We still are experiencing some economic headwinds in our core markets.
Things have been well-documented in terms of continued high unemployment and just general level of uncertainty for businesses but we're not seeing any fundamental gaps in our capabilities and we believe very strongly that we can overcome the market pressures with disciplined execution of our sales strategy.
We're taking a number of actions to improve our sales results we've recently combined our sales and marketing areas under new leadership.
We feel that's going to enhance synergies and our speed to market we're continuing to stay focused on growing our agency distribution system and enhancing their overall capabilities.
We've rolled out a number of new products and services over the last few months and through those combined actions we feel very confident we can regain sales momentum going forward.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick housekeeping item.
With the U.K.
tax change going into effect is this kind of a -- that 28% kind of effective tax rate number kind of the right way to be thinking about it across the entire complex going forward? No actually those are one time and they so because of the tax legislation that went in in the U.K.
that actually accelerates some of the tax benefits by releasing deferred tax liability.
So you'd have to take the overall entity would be just up over 30% on a going-forward basis.
We'll go next to Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
I'm just wondering about the interplay between the macroenvironment and unemployment and perhaps the better claim recovery you've seen in U.S.
group disability.
I mean is that a function of people finding work or feeling more secure that there's a job for them? Kevin you want to pick up on this? It's awful hard to pinpoint it to anything sort of related to the economy.
I haven't -- I don't think the employment picture in general has gotten all that much better.
I do think it's a difficult economic environment to be on a fixed income and so I think there's probably motivation to recover.
But I also think the diligence and hard work and efforts of our claims management people in establishing customer relationships working with claimants employers and physicians and working to accommodate them and help them get back to work are all factors as well and we've had consistent strong claim recovery performance over the last off number of years and it just continues.
And I have one follow-up question about the investment portfolio.
Given the NAI actually taking a different view of capital charges around mortgage-backed securities I'm wondering if you think that would have any impact on your RBC? Yes so no I'll take that.
Our mortgage-backed securities they're actually very highly-rated government backed so a lot of the things that they've been talking about were more to the structured securities that they've looked at and we actually don't have any of those in the portfolio so we don't see any impact from that.
We'll go next to Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to come back to the U.K.
and try to get a little bit better perspective on what's happening now and kind of what -- how we got to this point.
I think Kevin said this morning that you're still fairly early in this process of implementing rate increases but if you go back 2010 couple of things happen.
Margins slipped a lot and yet Group Life pings are up 18%.
You made a management change I think one of the issues you mentioned was maybe taking a closer look at Group Life.
2011 Group Life it pings up another 15% local currency margins slipped some more there was some talk about taking rate.
2012 it pings up another 11% and we're kind of hearing about starting a process of taking rates.
So have you been taking rates the last couple of years? Or is this a more recent phenomenon? And then I'm wondering how we get comfort kind of looking at U.S.
Group Life where you have this very strong growth of 7% and wanting to get some comfort that that's quality growth.
Yes let me start that up and then maybe just ask Kevin to pick up.
I think you certainly Jeff you raised a very valid point.
As you look back over a couple of years you can -- and with the benefit of hindsight I must say we probably would have gone and approached the Group Life business a little differently.
I can assure you though that I think as Kevin said actually the rate increase actions probably began more on the first of the year I think.
So we're into this rate action pretty substantially at this point.
Could we have started that more aggressively maybe a year before that? I think let's think again it's always an interesting -- the benefit of hindsight look back as you can probably conclude that.
Part of what you struggle with when you're going through a period of time like that is trying to ascertain what's volatility and what's real results.
And I think at times with a smaller business you tend to think that's a little more around volatility and therefore a little more hesitant to do the aggressive things with rate increases.
I think again when you look back you realize that wasn't volatility maybe there's a more fundamental issue with the margins there.
So I would certainly state it as we look back maybe we could have been more aggressive sooner.
Having said that now that we are aggressive we are being very aggressive and we're using a very consistent model to what we used in the U.S.
to go through the same kind of issue a number of years back and as you may recall we were very very disciplined about doing what had to be done to get the right rate and let the business leave if fact we can't go those kinds of rates.
I think Kevin that's what you talked about in your comments actually and so I think again looking back maybe we could have done that sooner but I think we're on a very rigorous -- so we have a very rigorous plan in place to make up for lost time if you will.
Yes.
I think that's right on the money Tom.
I think probably we were slow in adjusting to the fact that mortality was deteriorating and moving our prices up but at this point in time we're moving prices up more aggressively in greater volume as well across our renewal programs.
The other thing that I think affected results was that we had a somewhat substantial swing in mix of business towards larger Case Group Life in 2009 2010 2011 and what we're doing now is basically peering back on that reshifting our focus so when we compare Jeff to the U.S.
the growth we have in the U.S.
is almost completely sort of core market growth.
That's where it's coming from.
A lot of our Group Life Sales are successful in across-the-board but especially in the core marketplace and I think that's the shift that we'll make in the U.K.
both raising prices and shifting to the core.
We'll go next to Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A question maybe for Kevin.
Can you talk some about kind of the process right now for getting rate increases through on the LTC block? Because many of your competitors have talked recently about having a more difficult time getting rate increases through as insurance departments are now sort of inundated with rate increases given sort of the of mass exodus of this product line? I think this line of business it's natural that you're going to have some give-and-take process with regulators.
I mean you are talking about our product line that at least from an image standpoint focuses on the elderly.
It's not actually the case when you look at our book of business a substantial part of our book of business is actually below the age of 60.
So that said we're going to work through the process state-by-state.
We've filed in virtually in every state.
There's a moratorium with approvals right now in New York but the rest of the states we're sort of moving forward and we're either getting a full increase or we're getting a partial rate increase or we're getting a sort of a compromise process around being able to phase it in over a multiyear period but I think it's a difficult problem for regulators in the sense that they know that the interest rate environment is low.
They know that the industry is under pressure they know that the rate increases are needed for effective liability management so at the same time they want to be careful about pushing prices too high based on assumptions.
And so you just go through that process and I think we're doing very well right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no real change over the course of the past 6 to 12 months in terms of approval process? No.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe following up on Jeff's question kind of on the U.K.
So I guess with Peter now running the business over there I mean what's going to change versus what kind of Jack was focused on because again I thought his main focus was taking kind of the practices that were done on the disability line in the U.S.
and kind of bringing those over to the U.K.
to improve the profitability? Chris let me -- in fact we can.
Let me start and remind everybody when we made the changes actually Jack had been over there for a couple of years and we again it was we had -- sort of sort have an understanding that sort of bringing him back at a certain point and I think as we look forward just to set the stone for why the changes were made is is that we were on a good pathway with Jack but on the other hand we wanted to get some stability at the CEO level as we thought about this this is a couple of year process to rehabilitate that block of business Chris and so at the same time as you know we also had a significant need as we talked about earlier to really bolster our resources supporting our Closed Block.
So all things pointed to making a change at the time so I want to be sure we put that in the right perspective because some of those seeds were already sown with some price increases and things before Jack actually came back.
Now again as I mentioned in my comments actually at the time we made that change we did recognize at least I recognized that maybe getting just a little closer to Kevin's organization because that would help accelerate the ability to make some of those changes and implement some of the things that have been done in the U.S.
in the U.K.
that was done more effectively by tucking it under Kevin's wing which was another piece to what we did at that point.
I'd say Kevin we're already beginning to see some of the benefits of having done that in terms of being able to bring greater resources to bear on what's obviously a challenge but also one that frankly we've successfully navigated through in the past.
I wouldn't expect in general you're going to see a significant amount of change in what we did in the U.K.
now versus previously under Jack other than that because the Group Life results continue to deteriorate during the middle and second half of this year we've had to ramp up our focus there around mix of business and renewal pricing actions and new business pricing actions.
I think probably we've ramped up a little bit the number of actions and type of actions that we need to take in Group Life but all of the activities that Jack was leading and involved in in terms of driving increased capabilities in terms of group income protection claims management under writing management those continue.
And I do think as Tom said we just have put it in a place where we can provide maybe a greater volume of supporting resources whether it be in Group Income Protection or Group Life or actuarial resources or whatever from the U.S.
to the U.K.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly just quickly on the buybacks.
I think 4Q you've typically been pretty light in terms of share repurchase activity and I believe some of that has been due maybe to the timing of the analyst meeting.
So I guess with the push back now at December are you comfortable that there's enough liquidity and open periods that you can get that done? And then this $500 million still sort of the run rate that we should be thinking about going forward in terms of the free cash flow and then i.e.
the buyback opportunity? Rick? Yes.
So actually Chris when you think about the buybacks fourth quarter I think you're absolutely right.
If you look back over the last several years our Investor Day was kind of a mid-February so it's a couple weeks from now so our windows were really -- oh I'm sorry mid-November and so actually our windows were actually quite short and it was difficult to buy back a fair bit of stock at least in an open window-type time frame.
We don't have that constraint this year.
I mentioned December 17 will be the date put it on your calendars and we actually have plenty of opportunity to buy back stock through the fourth quarter.
The $500 million they talked about with another $100 million in the fourth quarter will be on track for that.
We'll talk about more next year and the capital plans in December but I think as I've reiterated talking on the capital model with Suneet as well we still see the free cash flow in the company of around $500 million.
And in the current environment given opportunities that we have out there we still think that buying back stock particularly at these prices is very opportunistic for the company.
So I think everything you said is correct.
We'll take our next question from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of questions.
Maybe just going back to U.S.
Group Disability for a moment.
I think it was mentioned that the 50 basis point discount rate reduction would typically impact quarterly results by about $6.5 million.
I just wanted to make sure that's pretax number correct? That is pretax yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay and so if I think about the results this quarter if everything had been sort of constant right which -- it never is of course but if it remained constant versus the second quarter that 50 basis point reduction in the discount rate that would've -- that would typically cost what the benefit ratio about 120 130 basis points? Something like that yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay so claim recovery is really the primary quarter-over-quarter improvement and I guess the question is or it sounds like that was the case anyway and maybe you can just confirm that and just help us understand how sustainable you think that might be? Sure.
The different pieces of that so actually Paid Incidence was quite flat and has been so if you're looking on a sequential basis Claim Recoveries are quite good as you mentioned sequentially.
And also the average claim size was down a little bit.
And so in terms of how that persists we'll have to -- we'll continue to watch that.
And so I think what you saw this quarter was a very good quarter although there's nothing really in there that we'd say won't -- doesn't have the opportunity to continue to persist as we look out into further sequential quarters and so we'll have to continue to watch that loss ratio.
So I think what you saw is a -- it's a very good quarter we took -- have some good actions I think to reduce our claims discount rate by 50 basis points to reflect the environment and we'll have to see how that plays out.
Research Division</strong> And then just back to the U.K.
just thinking about it for more of 50 000-foot perspective.
I think last quarter maybe the quarter before you were characterizing your expectations over the near-term as being sort of a GBP 20 million to GBP 25 million  of quarterly earnings.
Obviously this quarter little bit light to that.
It sounds like mostly on the Group Life side.
How quickly do you think you'll recover to that range? Do you feel like results in the U.K.
have found the trough? John I'll actually say we're still in that range.
I think what we said last quarter was GBP 20 million to GBP 25 million but we might see volatility around that.
That's what we saw this quarter and unfortunately to the downside but I'd say GBP 20 million is still probably a pretty good anchor number when you look at it.
And as we look to take price we'll look to watch it price in and block management so it's not just about price it's about risk selection and customers that we're continuing to work with.
As we take that forward we look to see it improve from there.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then the last question I have is just on the investment portfolio on the residential mortgage-backed security allocation.
It looks like over the last couple of quarters that the actual level of holdings there has been sort of consistently declining maybe $100 million $200 million a quarter.
I'm wondering if that's a proactive move on your part or if that's more a function of prepayment activity and if it's the latter can you give us some sense for how much that's contributing to current net investment income but perhaps some incremental pressure we have to think about as we look out to 2013? Certainly.
I'd like to think that everything we're doing is proactive but in reality in that block is what we're doing is we're not buying more residential mortgage-backed securities.
We just don't see the value in terms of what we'd be taking in there and these are actually ones that we've initiated a number of years ago that actually had good rates.
I can't give you a good number offhand in terms of how much deterioration that has caused because it then effectively rotation out of those assets into others but when you think about the general investment income pressure we will -- we'll feel we've grown our front.
Yes John this is Tom white.
Just on the prepayments what to the extent we get prepayments we include that in our definition of miscellaneous investment income.
And actually miscellaneous investment income for this quarter was very consistent with what we saw in the second quarter and actually down probably $2 million or $3 million from a year ago but we just haven't bought a mortgage-backed security in years and so you've seen a gradual decline in that exposure for several years as a matter of fact.
We'll take our next question from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James and Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a few I think follow-ups from some comments.
There was a mention that vis-à-vis the U.K.
the need to get through a renewals cycle.
If you could remind us how long your renewal cycle is in the U.K.? Kevin? Given where we are it'll now be about another 1.5 year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Another year and a -- but generally speaking are we talking 2 3 years? Two years I would say would be typical.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right good.
And then just a follow up on the LTC expected ratio discussion.
Ricky indicated that high 80s presumably what you're referring to is kind of today with today's rate on line as rate increases pile through I assume that you would think that would come down over time? That would be an expectation over time yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay just wanted to make sure on that.
And then kind of a theoretical question I guess.
There's -- you didn't discuss it in your script at least I didn't catch it but it was in the release a discussion of improvement in the loss ratio in the U.K.
which is counterintuitive given the fact that earnings in the U.K.
went down.
I guess what I want to ask you is how meaningful are those numbers that were in the press release given the fact that you also have this issue in investment income with regards to the inflation adjustment factor which can really screw up the ratios if that's not accounted for? It is a challenge.
Tom why don't you go walk him through that.
Steve I think you described it well -- but essentially what happens is we've got an RPI adjustment and inflation adjustment on roughly 1/3 of our Group Disability business over there and so when we have swings and inflation that will flow through and I think in this quarter the RPI came down a little bit.
So -- and we buy index link gilts in the investment portfolio so as inflation comes down you'll see a drop in investment income that we report but also a drop in the benefit ratio and they offset each other.
So there's really no impact in the quarter.
So you're right when you look at just kind of the pure benefit ratio in that business it can distort things a little bit and there's probably some additional disclosure that we can look at to kind of help you see the underlying risk trends.
But I think as we've tried to describe on the call the underlying risk trends and group disability business actually got a little better so that benefit ratio improved and on the Group Life side it was deteriorated.
Now the adjustments that we look at internally would have had our benefit ratio at about 76% in both the second and the third quarter so the underlying benefit ratio stripping out the RPI adjustment again was pretty stable again a little bit of improvement on the Disability side but a little bit of deterioration on the Group Life side.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's good.
And then maybe something can be worked out for the December 17 I think it was Investor Day.
We'll take our next question from Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-ups actually.
One is what is the dollar value of Premium that you expect to get between 2013 and 2014 in LTC relative to the current annualized premium level on rate increases? Kevin? Kevin you want to take that one? Yes I mean we have to let these the approval process sort of play its way out and then we're going to let the implementation process play its way out and then from there as we implement it we'll have to see what the persistency effects are et cetera.
So this is a -- I'll give you a number but I wouldn't like bank it.
I would say right now based on what we're seen so far we're at about the $50 million to $60 million range in terms of annual premium effects and then as we get more approvals and as we phase things in that number will get bigger but we'll just have to wait and see how it plays out in terms of persistency.
Research Division</strong> Okay and that's an annualized number I assume? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess a broader question.
If I look at operating expenses this quarter they were fairly low and obviously the trend if you go back a few years has actually kind of gone down in terms of the operating expense ratio but this quarter in particular seems awfully low.
I'm just curious if there was anything that was driving that and is -- if this level is sustainable? Rick do you want to take one? I would.
Actually when you think about our operating expenses we're a company that's -- we don't talk an awful a lot about our operating expense ratio but our entire team all of our associates are focused on efficiency and how we drive business through the process.
So our operating expense ratio was low in the quarter and if you look at a number of our lines that is action that we've taken over time to really be efficient and as we start to see growth come back in on the Premium Line making sure that we hold that the overall expense level and keep there.
So it is an ongoing process.
It's something we spend an awful lot of time working on.
I'll tell you from quarterly perspective there's nothing really in there that you'd highlight that was a big adjustment which would influence that operating expense ratio.
So it's something that we'll continue to beat at as a core driver as part of how our company operates.
Operator are there any other questioners in the queue? We have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn it back for you for any additional or closing remarks.
Good thank you.
And thank you all for joining us today.
As Rick said we have our discussion of outlook coming up December 17 so please do put that on the calendar and more details will be coming out on that but again thanks for joining us for this morning's call and this will complete our third quarter 2012 earnings call.
Thank you for your participation.
That does conclude today's conference.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Unum Group Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you Kim.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the fourth quarter 2012 analyst and investor conference call for Unum.
Our remarks this morning will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the SEC and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2011 as well as our subsequently filed Form 10-Qs.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website at unum.com.
I also remind you that statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found on our website in the Investors section.
So participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen President and CEO; and Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; and also Kevin McCarthy speaking for Unum US and Unum UK; and Randy Horn for Colonial Life.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Thank you Tom and good morning everybody.
Our fourth quarter was another solid one with operating earnings per share growth of 5.1% and for the full year our earnings per share grew 5.7%.
This represents the seventh consecutive year of operating earnings per share growth at the company.
In the fourth quarter we saw a continuation of many of the positive trends we discussed with our Investor Day meeting in December.
First our operating performance remains solid.
We continue to see premium growth in our target market and continue to generate solid operating results across most of our businesses which allowed us to maintain our strong profitability and returns.
For the fourth quarter our return on equity was 12.2% and full year return on equity was 12.3%.
Second our investment performance and asset quality remains strong.
We have not deviated from our investment strategy to chase yield but are continuing to take the actions we discussed with you at our December meeting to manage through this low interest rate environment.
Third our overall balance sheet remains in very good shape and our book value per share excluding AOCI grew by 12% this past year to $29.55 per share.
Our past 3 years even with our restructuring actions last year our book value has grown by an annual rate of 8.4%.
And finally our capital position remains strong and we have maintained our financial flexibility.
We continue to generate strong cash flow from operations with statutory net income for the total year totaling $625 million from our traditional U.S.
insurance companies.
For year end 2012 we are estimating our combined risk-based capital ratio to be 396% and holding company cash at just over $800 million.
We are continuing to return capital to our shareholders and in the fourth quarter we repurchased another $100 million of stock bringing us to $500 million for the full year and $2.2 billion over the past 5 years.
At our December meeting we also discussed 2 areas which represented some challenges for us and I'm pleased that we saw some improvement in both of those in the fourth quarter.
First results for Unum UK improved relative to the prior quarter.
While much of that improvement resulted from strong group long-term disability results our group life line of business which has been the greatest challenge stabilized in the quarter.
We are in the process of repricing the life block and while still early we are generally pleased with the results to date.
And secondly within our Closed Block segment our long-term care loss ratio was lower in the fourth quarter relative to the prior quarter and we continue to take the pricing actions we discussed with you in December.
So in summary 2012 was another very solid year for the company.
As we look to 2013 we still have a generally cautious view of the environment with continued low employment growth and low interest rates.
However we are confident we can continue to create value for our shareholders by maintaining our disciplined growth strategy delivering consistently strong returns in our ongoing businesses maintaining our solid financial foundation and returning excess capital to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividend increases.
So with that quick overview of the fourth quarter I'll now turn things over to Tom for an overview of our operating results this quarter.
Tom? Great.
Thank you Tom.
As you can see from our press release yesterday afternoon we reported net income of $233.9 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 or $0.85 per diluted common share compared to a net loss in the year-ago quarter of $369 million or $1.26 per diluted common share.
Included in net income for the fourth quarter of 2012 are after-tax nonoperating retirement-related losses of $7.5 million and after-tax net realized investment gains of $16.4 million.
Included in fourth quarter 2011 were after-tax reserve additions and the write-off of deferred acquisition costs in our Closed Block segment totaling $619.6 million net tax benefits of $22.7 million after-tax nonoperating retirement-related losses of $5.1 million and after-tax net realized investment gains of $4.8 million.
So excluding these items after-tax operating income was $225 million for this quarter or $0.82 per diluted common share compared to $228 million -- $228.2 million or $0.78 per diluted common share in the year-ago quarter.
Moving to a review of our business segments operating income for the Unum US segment increased 2.3% to $212.2 million in the fourth quarter with premium income increasing by 3.2%.
The expense ratio was stable on the year-over-year basis and risk experience was also generally stable with the benefit ratio for the segment at 73% this quarter compared to 72.7% in the year-ago quarter.
Within the Unum US segment operating income in the group disability line was $73.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to $77.1 million last quarter.
Premium income increased by 0.5% over last year due to sales growth and generally favorable persistency trends in recent quarters.
But operating revenue declined 0.3% as net investment income declined by 4.1% due to lower assets allocated to this line and a decline in the investment yield.
The benefit ratio for this line was 84.5% in the fourth quarter down slightly from both the year ago 84.7% and the third quarter 84.9%.
In the group life and AD&amp;D line operating income increased 4.8% to $55.1 million in the fourth quarter benefiting from an increase of 5.5% in premium income as well as higher net investment income and a lower operating expense ratio which offset an increase in the benefit ratio to 72.5% this quarter from 70.7% in the year-ago quarter.
In the supplemental and voluntary line operating income increased 7.6% to $83.6 million with solid growth in premium income of 5.6% offsetting a slight increase in the benefit ratio to 52.5% in the quarter from 51.9% in the year-ago quarter.
Moving to Unum UK.
Operating income in this segment declined to GBP 21.8 million from GBP 33.1 million in the year-ago quarter.
The benefit ratio was 76.2% in the fourth quarter compared to 69.1% in the year-ago quarter while premium income in local currency increased by 1.6%.
Results in the group life line of business were significantly weaker than the year-ago quarter but were stable with the third quarter while income in the group long-term disability line was generally flat with the year-ago quarter but up significantly from the third quarter.
Concluding our core operations Colonial Life reported an increase in operating income of 5.1% to $68.3 million.
Premium income increased by 4.4% and the benefit ratio was stable on a year-over-year basis at 52.5%.
In the Closed Block segment operating income totaled $28.8 million in the fourth quarter compared to a loss of $922.3 million in the year-ago quarter.
Adjusting for the impact of the reserve addition and DAC write-off operating income last year was $30.8 million.
For the Corporate segment we reported an operating loss of $34.6 million for the fourth quarter compared to a loss of $18.8 million in the fourth quarter last year.
Net investment income is lower due to lower asset levels a lower proportion of assets invested at long-term interest rates and a decrease in investment income attributable to tax credit partnerships.
Interest and debt expense was higher at $35.3 million in the fourth quarter compared to $32.4 million in the year-ago quarter again reflecting the issuance of $250 million of 30-year senior notes in the third quarter.
So with that I'd like to turn the call over to Rick McKenney for further analysis of this quarter's results.
Great.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll cover the profit trends we experienced in our business segments this quarter a little more detail on our growth trends and I'll also update you on our investment results and capital position.
First on operating results in the fourth quarter our Unum US segment again produced good results with growth in operating earnings of 2.3% and generally stable risk experience across each of our product lines.
Focusing on the risk results first with group disability the benefit ratio has remained stable at 84.5% which is consistent with last quarter as well as a year ago.
The underlying experience this quarter was again favorable with stable claim incidents continued strong claim recoveries and the ongoing benefit of price discipline on new sales as well as renewals.
These favorable trends are somewhat offset by the interest rate environment and the impact of the 50-basis-point reduction we made in the reserve discount rate for group long-term disability new claim incurrals in the third quarter.
All in all we're quite pleased with the level of profitability we are experiencing in the group disability line with a full year ROE of just below 13%.
The group life and AD&amp;D line was again a strong earnings contributor this quarter at $55 million.
The benefit ratio was 72.5% in the fourth quarter which is consistent with the third quarter level with mortality running slightly higher than previous quarters.
Margins in this line of business also remain very favorable with ROE for the year at approximately 16%.
And finally in Unum US the supplemental and voluntary line continues to be our largest earnings generator at $83.6 million this quarter an increase of 7.6%.
[Audio Gap] year and risk experience also remains generally favorable.
The fourth quarter benefit ratio of 52.5% was up slightly as both the individual disability recently issued and voluntary benefit lines similarly had slightly higher benefit ratios.
These lines of business continue to be attractive growth opportunities with very good returns generating ROEs in the 13% to 14% range.
Moving to Unum UK.
Fourth quarter results improved relative -- [Audio Gap] and back within a range of expectations of GBP 20 million to GBP 25 million.
The improvement relative to the third quarter was driven by strong results in the group long-term disability line of business as claim incidents and claim recoveries were favorable.
Results in the group life line which has been the source of much of the recent underperformance in the segment were comparable to the third quarter.
Our primary focus for this product line is to stabilize the profitability in the near term and look to improve returns and growth over the medium term.
Our fourth quarter results were a step in the execution of that plan which includes repricing and shifts in our mix of business over the next several quarters.
Additionally as we mentioned at our December investor meeting we were evaluating alternatives to reduce volatility in the group life results.
And to that end we have executed the reinsurance transaction for this line effective at the beginning of the year.
This reinsurance arrangement will have the effect of reducing the amount and relative volatility of earnings from the group life line and will also reduce the overall level of required capital.
The overall ROE was 13% for the year.
Colonial Life once again produced solid results for the fourth quarter earnings with earnings of $68.3 million showing an increase of over 5% while premium income increased by 4.5%.
The benefit ratio remains stable at 52.5% this quarter which enabled an ROE for Colonial Life for the full year of 2012 of just under 17%.
When you look across Unum's core businesses you see we had very good returns for 2012.
Concluding my comments on profitability results in our Closed Block were higher at $28.8 million this quarter.
Operating earnings in the individual disability line were higher than normal driven by favorable risk experience.
On its surface net investment income was also higher than recent quarterly trends.
This occurred primarily in the individual disability line where we received several million dollars of miscellaneous income as a result of bond call prepayment premiums.
While that bond call premium increased our net investment income results for the quarter we correspondingly adjusted the discount rate for new claim reserves.
This was done to recognize the impact of losing these higher-yielding bonds to an early call and to maintain a net interest margin in our reserves.
Aside from this adjustment underlying claim experience in the individual disability block was favorable in the fourth quarter.
Long-term care results for the fourth quarter showed some improvement over the third quarter results with the interest-adjusted loss ratio declining to 89.9% from 91.3%.
Our full year 2012 LTC interest-adjusted loss ratio was 90% at the high end of our long-term expected range.
Now I'd like to move to discussion of our sales and growth trends beginning with Unum US.
We continue to be pleased with our sales results with a 4.8% growth in overall sales in the fourth quarter and 7.5% for the full year.
This quarter sales growth was a bit more skewed to the large-case market where we remain disciplined and are happy to see this progress.
Sales in the core market were down 2.6% for our LTD STD group life and AD&amp;D lines combined impacted by the rate increases we have been implementing on sales over the past several quarters.
Our mix of sales continues to reflect our long-term growth and mix objectives from the core market in 2012.
Premium persistency has been positive all year and ended at over 90% for group life and LTD in 2012.
With these positive trends we continue to produce premium growth in the 3% to 4% range for Unum US segment a good combination of growth and strong profitability particularly in today's competitive market conditions and continued flat employment trends.
In the U.K.
sales results reflect the actions we are taking to turn this business.
Sales were down by 42% in total including a sharp drop of 72% in group life sales and a more moderate decline of 6.5% in the group long-term disability line.
We continue to push price increases into the group life market as well as scale back our -- certain sales in certain market sectors as we reposition this business line for better margins in the future.
Persistency also declined as expected due to the pricing actions we're taking from 89.3% in 2011 to 82.5% in 2012 for group life.
Persistency in group long-term disability was more stable declining from 86.6% to 84% in 2012.
And finally at Colonial Life sales showed a modest increase in the fourth quarter.
However coming off a decline in third quarter sales of 5.8% we were pleased to see this turn.
Sales rebounded nicely in the public sector market showing 8.6% growth over last year's fourth quarter while sales were slightly negative in the core market sector.
In the fourth quarter we also saw a slight improvement in sales to new accounts.
We have seen increasing sales from existing customers which we will certainly remain a focus of ours.
But we're also pleased to begin to see improvements in our growth in sales attributable to new account relationships.
Moving on to the balance sheet and the investment portfolio there is little change to our recent trends of strong credit quality in the midst of a challenging environment for new money yields.
This is due to the low level of interest rates as well as tight corporate bond spreads.
On credit quality the net unrealized gain position of our fixed-maturity securities portfolio stands at $7.2 billion at year end which is mostly driven by low rates.
However our watch list of potential problem credits remains very low.
The net realized after-tax investment gain or loss from our investment portfolio was slightly positive again this quarter and for the full year.
On the low interest rate environment while 10- and 30-year treasury yields increased slightly in the fourth quarter much of that improvement was lost to tighter corporate bond spreads.
The net result continues to be low new money investment yields which led to a reduction of 7 basis points in our portfolio this quarter to 6.47% at year end.
Our strategy for managing through this environment is centered on being selective in our asset purchases and utilizing higher allocations to asset categories such as private placements commercial mortgage loans and below-investment-grade bonds.
In 2012 we believe this provided better relative value.
We also continue to benefit from the hedges we have in place for our long-duration long-term care portfolio which will cover about 20% of our asset purchases for LTC in 2013.
The other important -- element of our strategy for dealing with low interest rates is to make adjustments to our discount rate assumptions such as the 50-basis-point reduction we did in Unum US group long-term disability in the third quarter which leads to higher pricing on new sales as well as renewal business.
As a result we saw our interest margin improve by 1 basis point in the quarter.
As we mentioned at Investor Day we estimate that the low interest rate environment will impact our earnings growth by 68% in 2013 of which we will recoup 1/3 as price increases work their way through the book.
Now moving on to our capital position which closed the year in a very strong position.
As we've discussed in the past the important driver is statutory net income which totaled $188 million for our traditional U.S.
life insurance company in the fourth quarter and $625 million for the full year.
This performance helps to support our capital-generation model that generates between $550 million and $650 million of excess capital annually before shareholder dividends.
The weighted average risk-based capital for our traditional U.S.
life insurance companies was approximately 396% at year end at the upper end of our 2012 target range of 375% to 400%.
Holding company cash and marketable securities totaled $805 million at the end of the year slightly exceeding our 2012 expected range and 3x our annual cash needs.
Our share repurchase activity in the fourth quarter totaled $100 million and completed our 2012 plan of $500 million which reduced share count by 8%.
We continue to expect an additional $500 million of repurchases for 2013.
And finally in closing we remain consistent with the overall outlook we introduced at our December meeting as we anticipate growth in operating earnings per share for 2013 to be within the range of 0% to 6%.
Now I'll turn the call back to Tom for his closing comments.
Thanks Rick.
As we move to your questions I'll close by reiterating what I said earlier.
We are generally pleased with our financial and operating results this quarter and for the full year of 2012.
Unum US and Colonial Life continue to generate strong results in the quarter while the results in Unum UK and the Closed Block segment showed some quarter-over-quarter improvement.
Our balance sheet remains strong and that along with our solid capital position enables us to continue to create value for our shareholders by supplementing our operating performance by returning excess capital to our shareholders through consistent share repurchases and dividend increases.
Now this completes our prepared comments.
And Kim let's move to the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to focus on the U.K.
and the long-term care business which surprised relative to what we were expecting.
So I was just wondering if you could comment on 2 things.
First in terms of the U.K.
and LTC how much of the better-than-expected claims experience would you say is sort of a quarterly variation that could reverse? Or how much of it is just some of the actions that you've been taking in terms of pricing? And then sort of related to that specifically on pricing can you talk about where we are with respect to the repricing of the U.K.
business maybe a percent of the way through that? And then any feedback you've gotten from the regulators as you've tried to reprice the in-force long-term care business? Let's see if I can sort of organize that a little bit Suneet.
Let's start with just the U.K.
if we can and maybe just break it down into 2 -- a couple of pieces.
One is your discussion -- your question about group life pricing and where that whole stands; and Rick maybe we can talk a little bit about the financial outlook.
But maybe Kevin starting with you back on the U.K.
pricing of the group life block and where that stands and perhaps maybe where some of the early indications of its effectiveness are.
Thanks Tom.
Suneet with respect to the U.K.
business and the group life business we are sort of in the early stages.
Probably we're about maybe 30% through the book of business in terms of placing renewal increases.
The average increases are around 12.7% so far on the renewed business.
And we have some segments as Rick mentioned that the price increases are significantly higher than that.
And we have announced some subsets of our group life business that we're deemphasizing in particular the larger end of the group life marketplace.
So it will take about -- though into 2014 before we fully get through that block.
But I would expect us to be making that kind of progress throughout 2013 on the group life side.
Maybe just shifting then if we could Rick to you just on an outlook for the U.K.
just sort of put the quarter in perspective as we go to 2013.
Yes.
So as you look at the different elements you asked about claims I think the life business running similar to what we saw and we're taking actions to move through that.
The disability line actually looked pretty good but back -- I would say it's back more in a range of our expectations as opposed to what we've done in the third quarter.
When you take that all together as we look out next year we came in close to GBP 22 million in the quarter.
We're going to see that I think stabilize over the course of the year.
So we go into a relatively flat plan as we're looking out into 2013.
But we're hopeful with what we saw in the fourth quarter that things can look pretty good there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on long-term care? Yes maybe we'll break it out into 2 pieces again Suneet.
And maybe Kevin just on operational price actions and things we talked about in December.
I think we continue to make progress on that.
Yes we continue to be pretty much what we discussed at our Investor Day in December.
We're about 60% of the way through the process in terms of filing and approvals.
As you know we are seeking rate increases in excess of 25%.
And to date on the 60% that we're through so far we're running ahead of that plan.
So good solid steady progress.
Those price increases don't actually get executed and implemented in the marketplace until the beginning part of this year and then their effects will flow through operating earnings toward the end of 2013 and into 2014.
Rick? Yes if I could pick up on the long-term care question around experience we saw that.
You would have seen our loss ratio come in a little bit in the fourth quarter relative to the third.
So we're certainly happy to see that.
But as you see our -- just under 90% so we're back within our range of expectations around that.
But certainly something to watch as we continue to move through time on that as we've done.
But it's good in the fourth quarter to be back in our range of expectations which is in the high 80s.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one quick follow-up on the long-term care if I could.
If I look at your block I think it looks like maybe half of it in terms of premium is group LTC and the other half is individual roughly.
Just as you're going for these price increases do the regulators look at individual versus group differently? Is one more likely to get a rate increase versus the other? Or is it pretty consistent across the 2 product lines? Yes I would say it's fairly consistent.
I mean the average age of the group long-term care book is much younger.
And there is usually -- there's always an employer involved and sometimes employer premiums involved.
And so to that extent I think the regulators may to some extent look a little more kindly on what we need to do in the group long-term care business because there are many options available to the employer as well as the employee given their younger ages.
Individual long-term care being a much higher sort of average age I think the regulators are probably a little tighter on that.
But so far in both cases we're exceeding expectations.
Moving on we have a question from Jay Gelb from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get your perspective on how an improvement in the economy and payrolls would essentially act as a tailwind to your overall business particularly in U.S.? Kevin you want to pick up on it? You spend a fair amount of time on that.
Yes.
Well 2 things would benefit us in the U.S.
in terms of improvement in the economy -- well 3 I'll talk to 2.
Wage inflation would be one.
The large majority of our group life and group disability lines of business are directly related to covered payroll and the benefits are tied to payroll.
So to the extent payrolls go up benefit levels and premiums go up.
Second I think a positive effect would be growth in employment.
As you know we tend to target markets in our group business toward economically less downward-sensitive industries and we try to target those that are growing.
And so to the extent that we get overall employment growth that would benefit us on the sales side.
It would probably benefit us on the in-force book of business side as well.
And so we would start to get some sort of positive uptick in terms of earned premium.
And then the third piece of the economy probably is interest rates and I'll let Rick talk to that.
Yes.
No I think when you look at -- it's certainly tied together in terms of actions that are being taken by the Fed as well as just the overall improvement in the economy.
As we start to see rates come up certainly a benefit to our business.
All of our product lines that we have out there benefit from a rising interest rate environment.
So we certainly will look forward to that although we have not factored that into our plans today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to get your level of comfort in the U.K.
business and the runoff operations are things tracking according to plan there? Kevin you want to pick up on that again? Also I think Jay too you remember we went through some of this before in the U.S.
I think as we think about what's happening there I think Kevin there's a fair amount that we can take from our experience and having been through a very similar exercise a number of years ago in the U.S.
Right right.
Very very similar to what we had to do with resetting our U.S.
block of business.
As you know we've taken a couple of different actions in the U.K.
on the group income protection side.
We're bolstering our claim management practices transferring some capabilities and skill sets from the U.S.
to the U.K.
I think some of that is starting to flow through when we had very solid group income protection claim management results risk management results during the fourth quarter and expect that to continue going forward.
On the group life side we already talked about the rate increases that we're placing.
We're also managing mix of business sort of downward toward more core market business.
And we also are putting a variety of other internal underwriting measures in place.
That would probably have a downward effect on persistency in sales at least in 2013 until sort of the market normalizes.
And we'll go next to Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can we start with the U.S.
segment for a second? When I think of the 50-basis-point reduction in discount rate I guess I was somewhat surprised to see group long-term disability new sales grow by 15% in the quarter with that.
So any additional color you may be able to offer there would be helpful.
With regard to the discount rate change that's primarily with respect to new claim incurrals.
And so on the risk side we did have a very very strong quarter because we basically were able to absorb the discount rate and keep the loss ratio basically flat.
In terms of the discount rate's effect on pricing we were already moving ahead.
It's really not a discount rate change.
It's more a reflection of what's the assumed interest rate that we assume in the pricing.
We had built that in during the course of the year and we had mid-single-digit price increases going on in both new business and renewal business in LTD throughout the year and we'll continue that in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the U.K.
segment could you -- I'm sorry if I missed this but can you provide a little more color on the reinsurance program? Does that -- you put on kind of the size or structure of it? Absolutely.
Rick you want to pick that one up? Yes certainly.
There's 2 elements to it.
And as I mentioned it's really to reduce the volatility of this business.
Our core line there is certainly our group disability side.
And so as we've had the challenges here we're taking action using reinsurance to help us mitigate some of that volatility.
Roughly we're going with a 50% quarter share on the block.
So you actually reduce capital profits premiums associated with that block.
And then we're also reducing our retention levels in terms of what we retain cutting those down to 500 million -- or GBP 500 000 pounds per life.
So actually some good restructuring there.
It's not going to have a large impact on our earnings to do that.
And we think it's a good use and also frees up some capital behind that product line as well.
So we're happy with the transaction and we'll see how that plays out over the course of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I could sneak in one more the RBC ratio came down to kind of within the target range now.
How should we think of the ability to return excess capital with the target range kind of in -- being in the target range already? Rick? Certainly.
When you look at where our RBC level is we're within our target range.
I'd take you very quickly back to our philosophy around how we're returning capital and that is we're returning capital in which we've been using to buy back stock here for a period of time based on our capital generation.
So regardless of where our capital levels are our 396% is quite high and probably higher in the long term that we'll need.
That doesn't change our outlook in terms of returning capital that we generate back to shareholders which we expect over the course of this year will look very similar as to what it did over the last several years which is why we're sticking with a $500 million share repurchase.
And if I could just add one thing too Rick.
I think we closed the third quarter with $762 million of cash and we were above $800 million this quarter.
And so there's some fluidity between RBC and risk-based capital actually.
And it's probably worth everybody keeping those 2 numbers in mind as we think about this whole capital position.
Absolutely as we were over $800 million of cash.
And so when you think of that think of roughly 10 basis points to the RBC ratio is $100 million of cash.
There's fluidity there.
And like I said I'll take you right back to what our capital-generation model looks like.
And that's really what we predicate our share repurchases on not actually the levels of excess capital we have which we do believe we have today.
And we'll take a question from Randy Binner from FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just one on the discount rate change.
The -- we look at the 10-year and then credit spreads have been tighter too.
And so the 10-year I guess is moving higher credit spreads are still tight.
But my question is I mean what would need to change in those metrics we look at as analysts before we would expect the need for another discount rate change? Rick? Well I think that the discount rate change we made in the third quarter was reflective of those rates that we see today.
And so I think that things would have to get quite a bit worse before we would change the discount rate.
Something we always look at but we made a pretty aggressive move in the third quarter.
And I take you back to the fact that we do maintain a margin in that line.
So when you think about that it can be more fluid.
It's not directly tied to how we put money to work on the quarter it's taking into account how we're putting money to work combined with the fact that we have roughly an 87-basis-point margin between our earned rate and our discount rate.
So we can manage through that.
The move we made I think was prudent in the third quarter and we'll take that out.
I'm sure we'll come back and look at that as we get out towards the end of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then on Colonial I just kind of had a couple broad questions.
And so it's really starting with the benefit ratio.
I mean it came in kind of where we thought it would maybe 52.5%.
And that's been where we've been running but it's higher than we were I guess in kind of '11 and looking back to '10.
And so the first question is should we expect that to be a little bit higher kind of at the current level going forward? And then just if you could kind of talk about how the economy and competition might be affecting the sales outlook for those products in '13.
Maybe we'll flip the 2 around actually Randy and ask Randy Horn to speak to the business and the operations in the economy.
And then maybe Rick you can just touch briefly on the outlook side of things.
But Randy just want to sort of set the stage with the environment? Sure Tom.
Good morning Randy.
Overall the economic environment does continue to provide some headwinds as Tom said in his opening comments.
But we continue to see significant opportunity in our target markets which is that small to midsize employer on the commercial side and then the public sector.
A lot of the pressure we saw in 2012 and in -- continuing into the fourth quarter of last year was in that large-case commercial account greater than 1 000 employees.
We see a lot of volatility there and it's not a strong area of emphasis for us.
So we feel by staying strongly focused on our target markets that there's still a lot of underpenetration in those markets and we see a lot of opportunity there.
We have very strong results in the public sector as Rick mentioned in the fourth quarter.
We're heavily focused on the local government and education side there.
And even though again the economy is still not our friend Randy overall we still see a lot of opportunity in the highly underpenetrated markets.
Research Division</strong> And just on competition I mean Aflac had kind of 0% to 5% sales growth which is probably consistent with what most of us are looking at Colonial.
But I mean is there anything -- this is an area of the industry that doesn't change that much to be honest from a competition perspective but didn't know if a better economy or rate pressures and other parts of businesses have changed who you're seeing from a competitive perspective.
Not seeing any significant change there Randy.
There certainly are new entrants to the voluntary benefits marketplace but it's been fairly gradual over time.
And in our target markets we're still seeing primarily the same competitors: Aflac Allstate American Fidelity.
So really pretty consistent on that side of it.
Rick you want to pick up the profitability benefit ratio piece of that? Yes certainly.
Actually Randy when you look at our benefit ratio of 52.5% it's really on our expectations.
It is slightly up over the last several years.
But I take you back to the type of returns this business is seeing it's 15% to 17% is what we put out in our Investor Day type of return.
So we expect 2013 to be pretty stable on the benefit ratio side which continues to generate very good returns.
Chris Giovanni from Goldman Sachs has our next question.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question for Kevin.
So we saw some good sales growth a lot of it or all of it was really driven by the large-case market versus kind of your core market.
I think some of this is driven by your partnership with UnitedHealthcare.
But I guess how should we be thinking about this kind of 30% growth outside of your core market? Chris as you know from sort of over the last 3 or 4 years we've got a consistent philosophy in large-case which was basically to just grow at the average rate of the marketplace over time and to be pretty disciplined about how we pursue cases be opportunistic.
So you see some quarters when we have strong large-case sales you'll see some quarters where we have weak large-case sales.
We look for steady sales growth in our voluntary and core market business but we look for opportunistic sales growth in our large-case national client group business.
Our partnership with UnitedHealthcare has gone great.
In our national client group large-case sector we've been aggressively sort of targeting primarily the health care sector in our partnership with UnitedHealthcare.
And more than half of our sales around half of our sales in the fourth quarter came from that health sector and UnitedHealthcare partnership.
We didn't write any jumbo cases.
So we wrote a good volume if you will of large cases as opposed to 1 or 2 big large ones.
And so I would say that it was a very very good quarter for us.
I wouldn't necessarily expect it to repeat itself in any following quarter.
I think it's going to be as it has been for the last several years hit or miss depending on whether we see good disciplined pricing opportunity out there for long sustainable relationships with clients.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Rick you gave some pretty good insight in terms of the near- to intermediate-term strategy for the U.K.
But I guess when do you expect we see that shift from stabilization to growth? Is that something we could see a year from now? Or could it take longer than that just given the duration of some of the rate guarantees that you guys have out there? I think we actually expect it to turn.
I mean we would be hopeful we'd see a turn in the course of 2013 although we haven't really built that into our plans.
I think we're being pragmatic in terms of how we expect that to come through.
There's more to play out.
But we certainly would look to see that as we get out into 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last quick one.
I guess regarding your hedging strategy curious if you can comment at all on any implications from Dodd-Frank around collateral requirements or if it causes you to increase your cash balances at all.
Yes certainly.
We're looking at that.
I mean there's one area in the business that we would look to hedge as rates get up and as it is can be behind our long-term care business.
So we're certainly staying close to the Dodd-Frank implications.
But when we look at the actual amount the pure nominal amount or notional amount of hedging that we'd do it would actually be relatively modest relative to the size of our overall investment portfolio.
So it's something we'll stay on top of.
But although it may be impactful across the financial services industry it's not something we are overly concerned about.
And we'll hear next from Mark Hughes from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With the price increases in the Closed Block coming in later in the year is that going to lead to declining loss ratios? Rick you want to talk just to the outlook for the Closed? So when you look at the Closed Block and it's 2 different pieces.
Our individual disability block has been very stable actually pretty good results we've seen over a period of time.
We'd expect that to continue.
On particular to the LTC side which I think is what you're getting at.
We'd actually expect it to be fairly stable.
And so we've kind of put a high 80s number out there.
This premium change that we're going to see flowing into these price increases they're going to take place over quite an extended period of time.
And so that's how we look at it and it's going to take a while for it to be overly noticeable.
And stability I think is what we're looking for behind this loss ratio.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then the -- in voluntary within the U.S.
business that growth has decelerated a little bit.
What's the outlook there? Kevin? We still look to grow at about sort of 150% to 200% of the marketplace given our position our ability to package products between voluntary lines and group lines.
As you know we have a well-stated well-articulated strategy to enable employers to share funding with employees through combinations of employer-paid and employee-paid products.
About 10% to 15% of our group products come with voluntary lines attached.
And in our mid-market 20% of our business that we sold in 2011 came with voluntary benefits attached.
We'd expect to grow in the 10% plus or minus kind of range in voluntary going forward.
Marketplace tends to be sort of more in the 5% to 7% range or so right now.
And so I think we're very very optimistic about it.
And I think the trend of employers sharing funding with employees will only increase.
It won't decelerate and I think that bodes well for both Unum US and impacting strategy at Colonial.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Then one final question.
Have you started to see any movement in that natural growth more people higher wages with your existing customers? Not yet not at least in any way that you can see flow through the numbers.
I think there are good signs out there that employment may be sort of stabilizing that this employment growth is starting to show up in some industries.
We'll see what happens with the economy during 2013 if GDP holds up.
And if it does then you might start to see a little bit of wage inflation.
And I think both of those things will benefit us on the normal or natural growth side.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Steven Schwartz from Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A quickie first.
Rick earnings came in I think a little bit better than everybody was looking for.
There were a few items here or there.
What do you think -- what would be the base for the growth for 2013 I guess in your mind is the question that I want to ask? Well the base we're using as we lay out our outlook for next year is reported.
So you think of the 315 as we talk about our 0% to 6% growth.
If you look at it from a run rate perspective it's probably a couple of cents lower than we expected and that's more from a projection perspective.
But I don't want to discount the fact that we had a very good quarter and exceeded earnings.
But when you look forward I think you'd probably pull it back a couple cents for a really good tax rate we saw in the fourth quarter and extrapolate off of that.
But think about our baseline of 315 and 0% to 6% is what we put out there how we expect to grow in 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I want to go back to Unum UK make sure I understand what is happening here.
The reinsurance is on which line? The group life line purely.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's purely the group life line.
And it's 50% of the in force is that correct? Or is it 50% of new business? Yes that's correct.
It's in force and new business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And -- [Audio Gap] 4Q '12 and 3Q '12.
In 3Q '12 you stated that you thought there was just some volatility that the normalized number in pounds was still GBP 20 million to GBP 25 million.
I understand from Tom -- so you reported about GBP 22 million.
I understand from Tom there was about a $5 million hit from write-down of software assets that's in the expense line there.
That would kind of get you to 26 27 somewhere in that range.
Are you still thinking that that GBP 20 million to GBP 25 million is the range for this year? And if so how does the reinsurance play into that if it does at all? Yes so the reinsurance we've incorporated in terms of our outlook so when you think about that overall GBP 20 million GBP 25 million is still a range.
And it takes you back to an earlier question we had on the U.K.
I'd like -- I'm hopeful that it could be better over the course of the year.
But we built our plans that it will be relatively flat year-over-year as we see some of these pricing increases take hold in combination with what we see from an overall perspective.
So U.K.
had a good quarter but I think as we look forward we're still expecting a flattish-type plan and looking to see if some of these good results we saw in the fourth quarter can sustain.
And one thing to clarify there Steven is the software impairment was GBP 3 million which [indiscernible] $5 million just to get the currencies straight.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Sorry about that.
And then on Colonial I don't know if you answered this how much of Colonial's business is individually underwritten versus group underwritten? Randy you want to pick that up just a little bit about your block of business? Yes the vast majority of our business is still on an individual basis.
It's north of 90% so that 90% to 95% range is individual business and is underwritten.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The reason why I ask that is that Randy you may or may not be aware that the EBSA came out with a FAQ regarding group indemnity insurance and whether or not it would be exempt under ACA certain types of products? I am familiar with that yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds to me like that doesn't affect you at all.
But would it generally affect the market in a major way? I think that's still an open issue on that.
And certainly our trade organization is taking a hard look at that.
But from our perspective today we feel our products are all what we call HIPAA-excepted benefits and are not subject to the health care reform legislation.
Moving on we'll hear from Mark Finkelstein from Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I also want to go back to the U.K.
just to make sure I understand it.
I guess the way I'll ask the question is I think Rick you opened it up as kind of -- describing it as smoothing.
And I guess my question is is the ultimate loss content unchanged with this transaction and it's just the emergence of the losses? Or does it fall into more of a true risk transfer type structure? No.
This is true risk transfer.
I'd have to go back to the transcript.
I certainly did not use the word smoothing in talking about it.
It's something where we're taking roughly half the book and reinsuring that out pure risk transfer as we look at that.
And we will -- or I should say our reinsurer will take half the risk half the benefit in terms of how it comes through.
The other thing I would add is part of that reinsurance transaction is also in excess of retention strategy.
And so some of what happened to us in group life was that we got hit with some fairly significant high severity claims.
And so we backed off our retention limit which allows us to reduce the volatility from that high severity claim incidence.
And that should be a positive impact to us going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I got on late.
I apologize if I misinterpreted you.
I guess the other question I was thinking about is just looking at the persistency of group life and the sales levels of group life in the U.K.
how tied is the group life product to disability in the U.K.
market? And how cognizant do you have to be in terms of declines in group life overall vis-à-vis the disability business? Yes Mark I think -- I mean a fair amount of it is certainly tied but I don't believe that the actions that we're taking in group life should have any at all negative effect on our group disability strength in the U.K.
We are far and away the largest part of the marketplace there in terms of market share leadership.
We're the market leader in terms of setting product design market penetration expectations distribution enrollment strategies service strategies claim management.
And I would expect that none of what we're doing in group life will have any negative effect on group income protection.
We'll go next to Jeff Schuman from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry to do this but I think I'm going to come back to the U.K.
for the ninth time.
And it's probably been well explained but I didn't quite follow it.
I guess what I think I'm hearing is that you're ceding a significant amount of the volatility and you're ceding some of the capital requirement but you're keeping the earnings which sounds like a great outcome but maybe I didn't quite hear that right.
No...
So maybe I can try and clarify that so we don't get #10 coming through.
The -- it's actually full risk transfer so we are ceding off the business.
So when you look at that the reason it's not a heavy income impact it's because there's not a lot of income in the business right now.
And so when we take that out what we're actually able to get from the reinsurers is very similar to the profit levels that we earned at least over the last several quarters.
So we'd like for that improve but that's why the 3 of those things work together.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So at this point they're participating in the modest level of profits which is not much of a give-up.
But then going forward they would also participate in some of the upside is that...
That's correct.
That's correct.
And so as we go through these repricing actions we have to factor that in.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one kind of high-level question.
I think I heard Kevin say that -- Kevin was asked a couple questions about kind of U.S.
corporate America and the employer situation.
And it sounds like you're not necessarily yet seeing a lot of emerging strength.
Thinking back a few quarters I think at one point last year your premiums started to lift a bit and I think Tom was cautiously optimistic that maybe you were on the leading edge of seeing a little bit more strength in some of the employment markets.
Is it fair to say now that maybe that's -- it's a little early to identify that strength? Yes.
Jeff Kevin here.
I would say it's bounced around a bit.
We -- in the old days pre-2009 or whatever we'd get 2% to 3% of sort of top line in-force lift from wage inflation and employment growth.
Over the last 4 years it's been basically plus or minus 0.
Yes I think there was 1 year it was actually slightly negative.
This year our top line growth came primarily from a combination of a strong sales year and a very strong persistency year plus that persistency held up in spite of moving prices up.
And so that's what's really helped our top line.
But in terms of whether the economy has turned or not I'm no economist I'm just saying that it isn't showing up right now nor are we counting on it.
Our next question is from Seth Weiss from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A quick question on the LTC.
I was just a little bit confused by recent remarks that the improvements in earnings would be gradual over time.
I thought you had mentioned earlier in the call that you're 60% of the way through this process and that we would see effects flowing through late 2013 2014.
Maybe if you just help me understand the dynamics of that.
Seth yes we're 60% of the way through the seeking approvals process.
The actual execution of the rate increases doesn't start until during basically somewhere around the second quarter of this year.
Those will roll out gradually across the book.
And then the effect on earnings from that top line in coming from the rate increases will emerge also gradually.
And so I think as Rick -- I think Rick mentioned that we'd start to see a little bit of that effect the end of 2013 a little more of that effect in 2014 and then going forward.
But it will emerge gradually and we expect therefore the loss ratio to stay within that range stabilized range we think of 85% to 90%.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And if we think about this cycle of how long it takes to reprice the book is it 2 to 3 years? Is that a fair sort of assessment when we start thinking about late 2013 as a starting point? About 2 years I would say 2013 into 2014 and then you start to see the emergence following that.
But I think it's going to be an iterative process.
I don't think it's going to be a onetime thing.
I think constantly we're going to have to monitor interest rates and the pressure of interest rates.
We're going to have to monitor emerging experience.
So I think we talked on Investor Day this is a very very young line of business.
Most of the claims if you will is on the reserve side of the business not on the paid claim side of the business.
I think we're like 2% or 3% into the life cycle of this product.
So we'll continue to monitor industry experience trends as well as our own and then we'll continue to make pricing adjustments to accommodate what emerges.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Very clear.
And just one high-level question on capital.
You've been pretty consistent about signaling $500 million next year.
I don't know if that will still have a pretty nice cash cushion.
When we think going forward what's the main trigger in terms of bringing that down? I believe you said macro events.
So if we think about sort of main macro triggers maybe if you could help take us through that? Rick you want to pick up on that? Are you talking about the excess? When you say the trigger in terms of bringing that down I think when you look at...
Research Division</strong> The excess yes.
Yes the excess.
I think as we look at that we've been very consistent over the last several years and we just don't see the environment yet where we want to take those down to certain levels.
You can look at what's going on in the economies around the world there's just a lot of unknowns out there.
And so we feel very good about the $500 million that we've been able to do over the last several years.
We think it's a good use of our capital.
But I think as we look forward as we even said as we're going into 2013 we don't expect to take down those levels of excess capital in any meaningful way.
And that last question will come from Sean Dargan from Macquarie.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
But just when I look at the tax rate and the corporate earnings relative to where our model was it seems that the corporate loss was higher but the consolidated effective tax rate was lower.
Should we expect to see what you reported in first quarter as sort of a guide for what we'll see -- I'm sorry in the fourth quarter as a guide for what we'll see throughout 2013? Rick? Certainly.
When you look at -- actually we report on a before-tax basis so even our corporate segment is on a before-tax basis.
We have some items that are tax benefiting and on a before-tax basis actually cost us some money.
So I think to cut to the chase you should expect our quarterly run rate will look similar to what we saw in the fourth quarter.
Thank you Sean.
And I know it's been a busy morning for many of you.
So thank you for taking time to join us on this morning's call.
This will complete our fourth quarter 2012 earnings call.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Unum Group First Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead sir.
Great.
Thank you Divonna.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call for Unum.
Our remarks this morning will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year-ended December 31 2012.
Our SEC filings can be found on the Investors section of our website at unum.com.
I'll remind you that statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found on our website in the Investors section.
Participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen President and CEO; and Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; and also Kevin McCarthy speaking for Unum US and Unum UK; and Randy Horn for Colonial Life.
So now I'd like to turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Tom? Thank you Tom and good morning everybody.
Our first quarter results were off to a good start to 2013.
With year-over-year operating earnings per share growth of 9.6% and book value per share excluding AOCI increasing 11.9%.
Let me touch on a few of my observations for the quarter.
First our operating performance again remains quite strong.
We continue to generate solid underwriting results across most of our businesses resulting in a stable to lower benefit ratios for each of our major business segments.
As a result we again delivered strong profit margins across most of our business segments and an operating return on equity of 11.7% for the company and 14.1% for our ongoing operating businesses.
Second as it relates to revenue growth it remains a difficult environment.
And you saw that in our company-wide sales which were down 5.2% for the quarter.
Not to make excuses but when you look more carefully at the results you'll see that the decline is driven by 2 things a significant year-over-year decline in U.K.
group life sales and pressure on our small case U.S.-based business.
The U.K.
group life sales results should be no surprise as we have taken significant pricing actions in this product area.
In the U.S.
the general environment remains challenging which has been compounded by the fact that many brokers and agents and employers are focused on the implementation of health care reform thus delaying the implementation of new workplace benefit programs.
This headwind may be with us for much of 2003 -- 2013 but is no cause for us to change our disciplined growth strategy.
We continue to feel that we are very well positioned in our markets.
The third thing I'd point out is that we have continued to deliver very solid investment results and our asset quality remains excellent.
We have not changed our investment strategies to stretch for yield but instead have continued to take the actions necessary to manage through this low interest rate environment including raising prices in those product areas most impacted by today's low rates.
In addition our balance sheet remains in very good shape and our book value per share I said earlier excluding AOCI grew by almost 12% to $30.24.
At the same time we have maintained a solid capital position which when combined with our strong first quarter statutory results continues to provide us with a great deal of financial flexibility.
Our risk-based capital ratio of 396% continued to be at the upper end of our expected range for 2013 and our holding company cash position of over $650 million is off but well within our guidance.
We repurchased another $95 million of our stock as part of our plan to repurchase $500 million for the year.
We have now repurchased approximately $2.3 billion in stock since we initiated this program in 2008.
Later this month our board will consider an increase to our common stock dividend which they have increased in each of the past 4 years.
Last let me also touch on a couple of other areas that have in the past not performed as well as we had hoped both of which I am happy to say continue to show steady improvement this quarter.
I'm of course referring to our Unum UK group life business and our Closed Block.
Our Unum UK group life business result is stabilized and we continue to have -- we continue to make progress executing our planned repricing and repositioning of this block of business.
While more time is needed for these results to be fully realized I am pleased with what we are seeing thus far.
And within our Closed Block segment our long-term care interest adjusted loss ratio improved in the first quarter compared to both the year-ago period as well as the previous quarter.
This line continues to present longer-term challenges but we are pleased with the improved risk performance we have seen in this line in the most recent set of quarters.
So in summary the first quarter represents a good start to the year.
While we continue to have a cautious view of the business environment for 2013 which may slow the growth of the business we continue to believe that the disciplined approach we have followed in the past will allow us to continue to generate solid margins and returns in our businesses.
That along with our commitment to returning excess capital to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividend increases we think will assure that we continue to create value for our shareholders.
So with that brief review of the first quarter I'll now turn things over to Tom for a brief review of the operating results.
Tom? Great thanks.
As you can see from our press release yesterday afternoon we reported net income of $212.6 million for the first quarter of 2013 or $0.79 per diluted common share compared to net income in the year-ago quarter of $213.9 million or $0.73 per diluted common share.
Included in net income for the first quarter of 2013 are after-tax nonoperating retirement-related losses of $9.7 million and after-tax net realized gains of $6.7 million.
Included in the first quarter of 2012 were after-tax nonoperating retirement-related losses of $7.6 million and after-tax net realized investment gains of $8.3 million.
So excluding these items after-tax operating income was $215.6 million for the quarter or $0.80 per diluted common share compared to $213.2 million or $0.73 per diluted common share in the year-ago quarter.
Moving to an overview of our business segments.
Operating income for Unum US segment increased 1.1% to $208.1 million in the first quarter with premium income increasing by 2.5%; a lower benefit ratio 70.9% in the quarter compared to 72.5% in the year-ago quarter; and a lower expense ratio were off somewhat by higher amortization of deferred acquisition costs in the supplemental and voluntary business line due to higher level of policy terminations.
Within the Unum US segment operating income in the group disability line was $77.9 million compared to $74.7 million last year.
Premium income increased 2% over last year due to sales growth and the impact of rate increases.
The benefit ratio for this line was 84.3% down from a year ago of 84.9%.
This line includes a before tax gain of $4 million from the purchase and retirement of the debt associated with the Tailwind securitization.
In the group life and AD&amp;D line operating income increased 10.5% to $57.9 million in the first quarter benefiting from an increase of 3.5% in premium income as well as favorable risk experience which lowered the benefit ratio to 70.6% in the quarter compared to 72% a year ago.
In the Supplemental and Voluntary line operating income declined by 8.2% to $72.3 million compared to $78.8 million in the year-ago quarter.
The primary driver of the lower earnings was a higher level of DAC amortization which resulted from unfavorable policy terminations primarily in our voluntary benefits product line.
Underlying risk experienced in both the individual disability recently issued and voluntary benefit lines was favorable relative to the year-ago quarter.
Moving to Unum UK Operating income in this segment declined to GBP 20.2 million from GBP 24.7 million in the year-ago quarter.
The benefit ratio improved to 69.5% in the first quarter compared to 72.4% in the year-ago quarter while premium income and local currency declined by 14.5% primarily reflecting the group life reinsurance program.
We saw favorable risk experience in the group life and supplemental and voluntary lines of business which were partially offset by less favorable results in the group long-term disability line.
Wrapping up our core operations Colonial Life reported an increase in operating income of 8.2% to $75.4 million.
Premium income increased by 3.6% and the benefit ratio remained generally stable at 52.5% compared to 52.1% year-ago quarter.
Net investment income increased by 11.5% in the quarter and included approximately $5 million of miscellaneous net investment income above the level we normally experience in this segment.
In the Closed Block segment operating income totaled $27.3 million compared to income of $15.4 million in the year-ago quarter.
The interest-adjusted loss ratio for both the individual disability and long-term care blocks improved from the year-ago quarter.
For the corporate segment we reported an operating loss of $33.7 million for the first quarter compared to a loss of $20.6 million in the year-ago quarter.
Net investment income is lower due to lower yielding assets and a decrease in investment income attributable to tax credit partnerships.
Interest and debt expense was higher at $34.8 million compared to $32.5 million in the year-ago quarter.
Operating expenses were higher in the first quarter compared to a year ago due to less favorable expense accruals.
So now I'd like to turn the call over to Rick McKenney for a further analysis of the quarter.
Rick? Thank you Tom.
This morning I'll spend a moment on profit trends we saw in our business segments this quarter including detail on our growth trends.
Then we'll comment on the investor results and our capital position.
First on operating results in the first quarter Unum US operating earnings increased just over 1% with favorable risk experience across each of our major product lines.
Focusing on risk results first and beginning with our group disability business the benefit ratio continues to perform well at 84.3% for the first quarter of 2013 which compares favorably to the 84.9% in the year-ago quarter and 84.5% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The underlying experience this quarter was favorable with stable overall claim incidents continued strong claim recoveries and the ongoing benefit that we realized from the pricing discipline we show on new sales and renewals.
Also recall that we reduced the new claim discount rate for Group Long-term Disability in the third quarter of 2012.
This line of business continues to perform very well as we seek to balance growth but maintaining strong profit margins.
The group life and AD&amp;D line had a very strong first quarter as well.
The benefit ratio improved in the quarter to 78.6% compared to 72% in the year-ago quarter which led to earnings growth of over 10%.
The improved risk results were driven by a favorable average claim size while claim incidence was slightly higher.
And finally in Unum US the Supplemental and Voluntary line produced $72 million which is lower than the run rate we have seen.
We saw a higher level of policy terminations in the voluntary benefits line than we have seen historically.
This causes more DAC amortization which was partially offset by reserve releases as these cases leave.
As for the underlying risk trends for the Supplemental and Voluntary line both lines of business exhibited favorable risk experience relative to the prior year quarter.
The fundamental trends for both of these lines continues to be quite positive providing the company with a strong long-term growth opportunity.
This comes as we leverage our traditional employee benefit relationships to increasingly provide employee-paid financial protection products.
Our markets are increasingly moving in this direction and we remain well positioned to serve those market needs.
Moving to Unum UK earnings on a pounds sterling basis were GBP 20.2 million.
This result is consistent with our expectations and we are pleased with the underlying business trends in the first quarter.
The benefit ratio for the first quarter is 69.5% showing improvement from the fourth quarter of 76.2%.
The group life reinsurance program we initiated on January 1 causes a decline in premium income but will add more stability to this line of business over the course of the year.
We did see some noise in the quarter with a small amount of prior year life claims that were not covered under the reinsurance program.
But I would say otherwise the 2013 group life claims experience was stable this quarter.
Beyond the claims experience we continue to make good progress on repricing and repositioning our group life block and tactically increasing renewal rates for our group disability business.
Average rate increases for group life will continue to run in the low-double digit range and persistency remains within our expectations.
First quarter group life persistency was 83.5% compared to 82.5% for all of 2012.
It will take several more quarters to fully implement our repricing actions but as I said we're pleased with the progress we are making so far.
Colonial Life again produced solid results for us with earnings of $75.4 million for the first quarter an increase of just over 8%.
The benefit ratio of 52.5% was consistent with the trend we've experienced over the past several quarters and is within our range of expectations.
We saw a less favorable claim experience in both the cancer and critical illness and accident sickness and disability product lines which was mostly offset by an improved risk experience in our life line of business.
This quarter we did see a higher level of miscellaneous net investment income in this line that helped earnings by about $5 million.
And finally overall results in our Closed Block improved to $27.3 million this quarter compared to $15.4 million in the year-ago first quarter.
Operating earnings in the individual disability line were generally consistent with the year-ago quarter.
The interest-adjusted loss ratio improved to 81.5% this quarter compared to 83% a year ago reflecting lower submitted claims.
Looking at long-term care results we saw improved results with the interest-adjusted loss ratio at 89.5% for the quarter compared to 91.2% in the year-ago quarter and 89.9% for the fourth quarter primarily reflecting more favorable recovery and mortality experience.
Now I'd like to move to a discussion of our sales and growth trends first looking at Unum US.
Overall sales increased by 1.3% in the first quarter with sales in the supplementary and voluntary lines increasing 3.6%.
Our group sales declined by 1.6% with sales in the under 2 000 life market declining by 12% this quarter as the market environment remains competitive and we think our corporate customers are distracted as they focus on the implementation of health care reform.
Growth in the group large case market increased by 21% primarily driven by sales in new lines of business to our existing customer base.
Our mix of group sales is within our longer-term objectives as 62% of sales were in the core market and 38% were in the large case market.
Premium persistency for our group lines was slightly lower than last year's first quarter but remains within our expectations at 88.9% for both group LTD in group life.
We continue to see little to no benefit to premium income from the marketplace.
And in total premium growth was 2% in the group disability line and 3.5% in group life and AD&amp;D.
While we would certainly like to see an acceleration in these levels we remain diligent to protect our profit margins.
In the U.K.
sales results again this quarter reflect the actions we're taking to improve the profitability in this business.
Sales were down 46% in total with a sharp drop of 75% in group life sales.
Clearly this reflects our aggressive rate actions and decisions to pull back in certain market segments.
Sales in group disability were flat this quarter at GBP 7 million.
Total premium income for the overall business declined 14.5% in the first quarter largely reflecting the 50-50 quota share reinsurance referenced earlier that we put in place beginning this quarter in the group life line of business.
Finally at Colonial Life sales began in 2013 with a 4.9% decline.
Sales declined by 3.8% in our core commercial market but did increase by 5.6% in the larger commercial sector of the market.
Persistency for our 3 primary product lines all showed a slight improvement over the first quarter of 2012.
Premium growth remains positive at 3.6% for the quarter.
Transitioning to the balance sheet and the investment portfolio there's little change to our recent trends of strong credit quality in the midst of an ongoing challenging environment for new money yields due to the low level of interest rates as well as tight corporate bond spreads.
On credit quality the net realized gain position of our fixed maturity securities portfolio stands at $6.8 billion.
Our credit quality remains in very good shape with a minimal level of credits on our watch list.
New money yields however continued to present a challenge and for the first quarter we had a 6 basis point reduction since December in our overall portfolio yield to 6.41%.
We continue to manage through this environment by being selective in our asset purchases and look for the best relative value with the cash flow we have to invest.
We have been running a higher-than-normal cash and marketable securities balance which created a drag on our net investment income for the first quarter as we look for the best possible investment opportunities.
Additionally we continue to make pricing adjustments on our new sales and renewals to reflect the lower interest rates.
As we mentioned at Investor Day back in December we estimate that the low interest rate environment will impact our operating earnings growth by 6% to 8% in 2013 at which we expect to recoup 1/3 as price increases work their way through our books.
A good example of this is our U.S.
LTD business.
We did experience a widening in the interest reserve margin of 5 basis points from 87 basis points at year end to 92 basis points at the end of the first quarter.
Given the low level of cash to investments portfolio this quarter the portfolio yield remained stable while the aggregate discount rate declined as a result of the reductions we made to the new claim discount rate in the third quarters of 2011 and 2012.
Moving onto an update on capital.
We continue to be in a very strong position.
The most important driver of capital management is statutory net income which totaled $175 million for our traditional U.S.
life insurance company in the first quarter an excellent start to the year.
Given this strong performance the weighted average risk-based capital for our U.S.
traditional life insurance company was consistent with the year-end level of 396% at the top end of our 2013 range of 375% to 400%.
Holding company cash and marketable securities totaled $652 million at quarter end.
And share repurchase activity in the first quarter totaled $95 million and we continue to expect approximately $500 million of repurchases for 2013.
Finally we have no change to our 2013 outlook and continue to anticipate growth in operating earnings per share to be within the range of 0% to 6%.
Now I'll turn the call back to Tom for his closing comments.
Thanks Rick.
As we move to your questions I'll close by reiterating my opening comment.
We're pleased with our financial and operating results for the first quarter.
As a result of our strong risk results we again generated solid profitability and returns and positive cash flow at the company.
While generating profitable top line growth remains challenging in today's environment we are maintaining our disciplined growth strategy which has served us well in the past.
Importantly too our balance sheet and capital position remain strong which enables us to continue to supplement our operating performance with consistently returning capital to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividend increases.
This completes our prepared remarks.
And operator let's move to the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to drill in a little bit on some of the market dynamics I guess in the U.K.
and the U.S..
In the U.K.
I think you said the group life sales is down 75% but persistency sort of hung in.
So I guess that might suggest maybe that the rate increases are maybe sticking up some of the renewals but things are pretty challenging I guess on the sales front.
So I guess the sales down 75% very good to see you're disciplined but is there any -- do we see any hope that the market is going to start following you at some point? Kevin you want to touch on that? Yes.
I think the persistency does reflect that rate increases so far at least are sticking to a reasonable degree.
I think that the decline in sales is primarily driven by 2 things.
One we discontinued sales of certain products within our group life portfolio that we deem to be just too unprofitable for us to continue to pursue.
And we significantly ramped down our large case group life sales where we saw significant profit deterioration during 2012.
That's primarily what's driving down the sales comparison.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you weren't necessarily losing head-to-head you just weren't competing for as much business essentially.
Right.
I think we're very competitive still even though we're moving rates up in the core market but I think we've much like we did in the United States backed away from the more volatile and more difficult profit picture of the large case market.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> But then once again kind of get back to the key points so you do see there's some hardening of the life rate across the market? Yes to some degree.
I mean we're certainly moving them up and other competitors are moving them up to some degree as well although not to the rate or the extent that we are.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in the U.S.
I was interested I think the group sales being limited I think you attributed to the uncertainty around reform and I guess the idea maybe is that business maybe isn't churning as much.
But then I guess if that's true I would have thought maybe that would have been a kind of a help to persistency.
I think persistency was a little bit off there.
So is there actually less market churn or what's going on there? Persistency is off but not by very much.
And when you take into account that is driven by the fact that we're moving rates up in the sort of mid- to upper-single digit range I think we sort of expected that.
Last year's persistency also was sort of incredibly high.
I mean maybe historically high over the last 7 or 8 years.
So I think it's operating pretty much in the 88% to 89% kind of range or 87.5% to 89% range that we expected to operate at.
And I think we're feeling quite good about our ability to place rate increases.
But then in the marketplace in terms of health care reform most of the pressure I think is in the smaller end of the market and that shows up in our sales results.
Our small case sales were down 19% but our mid-market sales were up 6% and our large case sales were up 18% primarily driven by the vast majority of new sales to existing large case customers.
And so I think -- and I think that the dynamics that we're talking about are reflected in other competitors' results as well.
Small case market I think is a little bit sort of under the gun in terms of what are we going to do by January 2014 around health care reform how are we going to work with exchanges.
And I think that's driving activity levels down.
And that's probably increasing some inertia in terms of movement of sales.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is pretty much a 2013 phenomenon that kind of has to get sorted out by the end of the year is kind of what you think about it? Yes I would think about it that way yes.
And we'll go next to Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to start with the benefit ratios across your segments.
I mean if I just look year-over-year it looks like pretty much everything is moving in the right direction.
And we've had a couple of other companies report last night and I would say that things have been much more mixed on the underwriting side at some of those names.
So I guess I'm trying to understand if what you're seeing is sustainable or did you just have a really good quarter and maybe things just start to revert a little bit as we move through the year.
Kevin why don't you start with that one.
Yes.
I think it's a mixed -- in answer to your question Suneet.
I think on group disability income that was a particularly good quarter sort of everything went well submitted incidence are slightly down paid incidence remained flat actuals expected incidence was better than pricing assumptions STD incidence was moving its way down.
Hopefully that continues.
But I think the loss ratio we've always said would be sort of in the 84% to 85% kind of range.
And there might be little movements here and there inside of that range but we're pretty happy with the quarter that's for sure.
In group life we had favorable mortality and favorable severity and that helped us out and moved that loss ratio down a bit.
But again that loss ratio tends to be in that 70% to 72% range.
And it's sort of at the lower end of the range but above we expect it to be.
And then in voluntary the loss ratio was lower than we would normally expect.
We'd expect it to be closer to the 50% to 52% range but that was primarily driven by the I think the life reserve releases as result of the large case terminations of voluntary.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then are you expecting on the voluntary I mean as you peer in the second quarter this issue around large terminations I mean is that going to persist do you think? I think we'll get some of that throughout the year.
We're trying to be more disciplined in our underwriting particularly around large accounts that have high employee turnover rates and low re-enrollment rates and where profitability starts to decline and we can't get it back sort of on the volume side we can't get it back on the repricing side either so we're just not interested in continuing to pursue those accounts.
The majority of that I think would be more focused in the first quarter in terms of renewal activity than throughout the rest of the year.
But you'll see some continued effect of that throughout the year I think in voluntary as we work our way through that.
And I also think on the voluntary sales side the voluntary market is going to experience some of that same health care reform pressure as companies -- I mean employers and voluntary carriers try to figure out what exactly is the nature of the voluntary wrap-around sales is going to work with a yet undefined health insurance exchange program.
So I think in both cases you're going to see that kind of pressure.
Maybe Kevin I could add to -- I think if you look at both our Unum US performance as well as the Colonial performance from a persistency point of view I think historically we've always had a much higher persistency than the marketplace.
And I don't think we see any changes in that as we look forward.
Right.
I would suspect that the persistency will eventually revert back to the median close to the 79% 80% range as the year goes forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then a question for Rick on the long-term care Closed Block.
So good to see that interest-adjusted loss ratio kind of came -- stayed below 90%.
I think it's in line with what you guys built into your reserve build at the end of 2011.
I guess my question is are we yet seeing the benefit in terms of the price increases in the denominator of that calculation? I know in the past Kevin's talked about being x percent of the ways through the price increases but I think there's also been this commentary around it's going to take a while for that premium to actually emerge through the income statement.
So I just want to get a sense of where we are on that.
Good.
I think you characterized it well.
I think we are tracking that process to our expectations and working with our regulators to go through that process.
So to date that's working reasonably well.
But you're right it does take some time for that to come through the premium line through implementation and the different things that have to happen there.
So we haven't really felt that impact yet.
And in fact some of the benefit we see is from previous price increases going back several years.
So this is a longer-term trajectory that we have to work through but I think that in terms of actions that we can take we're doing reasonably well and tracking to our expectations.
We'll go next to Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In Colonial Life what is the outlook for recruiting and the overall size of the sales force in 2013? Randy you want to touch on that? And maybe even as you do to maybe talk about just some of the strategy adjustments we're making I think in terms of how to position the sales force.
You bet I'll do that.
We have ratcheted down our recruiting Mark here in the first quarter that was intentional.
We were dropping it from roughly around 1 500 agents recruited in the first quarter a year ago down to -- it was in the 900 to 1 000 range.
We think that's a much better balance of quantity and quality.
We're very focused on training these new reps effectively and getting the best possible return out of that effort.
So I really see the size of our sales force stabilizing in that probably 11 000 to 12 000 range by year-end.
Don't see any dramatic decreases but won't see it significantly increasing either.
But I think well really our strategy is around getting better return higher levels of productivity per rep.
And I think that's going to serve us well over time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
How about on the U.S.
Group business you said there's some delay-related health care reform.
How about competition? You've obviously taken some pricing actions? Do you think you're ahead of the market now in that and it may take some time for the market to catch up with you? Kevin? Yes.
Mark I mean I think we've been consistent over the last several years in moving prices up.
I think a number of competitors in the recent 12 to 18 months have started to move prices up as well in response to some of their deteriorating loss ratios.
But I think we were certainly ahead of the game.
And I think when you look at industry pricing statistics we still tend to be sort of priced somewhat higher than the majority of our competitors in the core market.
I think every carrier is faced with the same low interest rate environment and ought to be moving their rates up to some degree.
Everyone's I think faced some deterioration in loss ratio except for us pretty much and so ought to be taking that kind of action.
And everyone's got the same sort of effect of an aging population with the expectation at least of claims sort of following the aging of the population and if you can continue to price for that then you can stabilize your loss ratios and continue to generate your proved return.
So competitively I think the market is I think a little bit harder than it was maybe 2 years ago well but I still think we're ahead of the market on that.
And Mark if I could add to that too.
I think as you know you have to think about every carrier has a different starting point as they think about repricing.
And I think Kevin in Unum US we have about a 13% ROE for the group disability line of business.
So therefore when we talk about price adjustments they're really to reflect primarily the increase or the lower discount rates that we have and the lower interest rate environment.
I'm not sure if every carrier is finding -- find themselves in that same situation as they talk about repricing strategy.
Right.
I think if you looked at the industry margins they're considerably lower than the margins that we're throwing off.
We'll go next to Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So first a question on buybacks.
I think you did $95 million this quarter.
That's lower than what you've done in the last few quarters.
So is there any reason for that? And how do you expect buybacks to ramp-up as the year goes on? And then on the sales you discussed this a little bit in the past few questions but how much of the sales weakness is because of just a disruption on health care reform or is part of it that there are still competitors out there that are somewhat aggressive on pricing? Rich you want to take the first one? Sure.
When you look at our buybacks of $95 million in the first quarter one we're very happy with that.
We think relative to our market cap we still continue to return a significant amount of capital to our shareholders.
When you look at our trend line what we've done in various quarters we've been in and out of the market and so I wouldn't read anything into a $95 million a quarter other than that how we get into the market.
But the bottom line is we still look at $500 million for the year.
We think that's consistent with our capital generation model.
And that in conjunction with dividends we think is a very effective way to return capital to our shareholders.
Kevin want to pick up on the sales question? Jimmy it's hard to quantify how much of it is from health care reform.
I expect...
Research Division</strong> Just not -- just in general terms is that more or is it that you're like in some parts of the market you're losing share or losing cases to other companies? Yes activity's down about 10% year-over-year.
So you'd expect that the stable closing ratios to sort of translate in that similar kind of pressure on your sales.
There certainly are some aggressive competitors out there.
I don't think we're winning or losing much more than we have been in the past.
But always in this marketplace regardless of how many carriers are acting some of the prices up there are always several carriers that are acting to take advantage of that and trying to drive their sales up.
And you just got to look at sales numbers to see that.
Research Division</strong> And then in the U.K.
business what was the benefit? And then what would the results have looked like had you not had the reinsurance contract in place? And what are your intentions as to potentially renew this for next year? Okay.
Certainly when you look at the reinsurance contract in the first quarter I'd say it's kind of a wash so the underlying results in the quarter were actually pretty good in our group life line so all else being equal I think we may have a lost a little bit by having that reinsurance but I think we still are very happy that we're in that structure going throughout the year.
As we mentioned we did have a little bit of carryover from previous year claims that came through that weren't covered so it elevated the loss ratio a little bit.
But that's the structure that we like relative to our business and the size of our business and the volatility that we want to see.
So I wouldn't speculate in terms of how we take that out over time but certainly still happy it's in place here in the first quarter.
And we'll go next to Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to touch on the UK and see how we should be thinking about earnings once we sort of get through the pricing changes.
So -- and the reason I asked is the reinsurance transactions appear to be doing what you've really targeted which is reduce some of that earnings volatility we've been seeing the past couple of years.
But presumably it's going to give up some of the upside so when profitability improves.
So versus sort of the low $30-million-or-so you're trending versus maybe what we saw a couple of years ago which was consistently in the $50-million-or-so of quarterly range there.
I mean I guess where should we kind of end up here once you get through all your pricing actions? It's difficult to talk about in terms of where we end up much longer term when we talk about this year or maybe as we get out into next year.
This year we expect the business to be flat relative to year-ago period.
So as we take through price as we take through driving stability and as Kevin mentioned these lines that we are not continuing to write in that business we'll see 2014 -- or '13 to be relatively flat.
As we get past that period of time and I'm not sure exactly where that inflection point will be we'll start to see those price increases come through in the overall profitability of the business.
So as we get out to 2014 we expect to see that trend line starting to increase but I don't want to leave the expectation that we'll get back to those levels that we were at several years ago.
It will be one that's slowly increasing beyond 2013 as prices take hold and growth takes hold in that marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then your guidance I guess the operating earnings piece you kind of pointed to down 2% to 5%.
And then that would be offset by 6% to 8% of accretion from buybacks.
So just trying to think how we should be thinking about the guidance given I guess the more measured pace of buybacks in 1Q.
But then less I guess accretion and reduction of share counts based on the 30% increase in the share price here year-to-date.
So should we be thinking about  towards the lower end of that range just given less accretion from buybacks or am I missing something in terms of the moving parts? Rick? I think those are all the right moving parts when you look at it Chris.
But I think when we take all those different pieces together I think we still expect to be squarely in that range.
So as we buy back over the course of the year and as I mentioned a little lighter this quarter but we expect to catch up on a reasonably quick pace we still expect the benefits coming through on that front.
And we will buy back a little bit less shares.
The share price sits at these levels but nothing that will materially alter what we see over the course of 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can just sneak one more quick one and just in terms of the sales mix for Kevin.
Obviously you'd wanted to see -- you'd want the mix to be better on the core piece but obviously you've pointed to a number of the competitive dynamics there.
But I just want to try and get arms around how we get comfortable that the larger end of the market that you have -- what -- how do you basically assess the business that you're putting on to make sure we don't see loss pressures down the road from maybe greater share within a more volatile segment of your group business? Yes.
As we've always talked about our large case business we're pretty disciplined about how we go at it.
We're opportunistic when we see the chance to get the price we want.
And we tend to have off quarters when we can't get the prices we want.
This quarter particularly was driven largely by new coverages added to existing accounts.
So we're already familiar with the profitability of those accounts and we're pricing the new lines of coverage consistent with what we already got on the books.
And so to the extent that they were already profitable customers we're adding lines of business.
If they weren't already profitable customers we probably wouldn't be adding those lines of business unless we're adding them at a higher pricing than we'd have in the existing lines.
So actually I'd view the quarter as quite an opportunistic and successful quarter in that regard.
And we'll go next to Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just one on kind of the health care reform.
I'm assuming that that is also a pressure for Colonial.
But could you talk about maybe what you see as the potential impact on sales and demand for voluntary products once health care reform is implemented? And do you see this as a potential catalyst or vice versa a challenge for sales? Actually Randy why don't you get started on that because again I think you've as Eric mentioned you have a window into that with your business as well.
And then I'll maybe ask Kevin to pick up from that.
Yes absolutely.
Yes certainly some choppiness as Tom and Rick and others Kevin have talked about in the current timeframe.
But we're doing a lot of work in terms of training our field force who are providing guidance for employers regarding the overview of the health care reform requirements we're providing recommendations on how employers need to prepare and respond doing a lot of benefit counselor certification type training in terms of public exchange requirements in their respective states.
So you pull all that together once we get through this implementation period help employers get over the hurdle of just understanding the legislation or what the requirements are we really see a very robust opportunity in terms of product solutions benefit communication needs that type of things.
So yes some challenges in the short-term but a lot of opportunity a lot of need for what we provide and just a lot of opportunity for the BB market in the post health care reform world.
Kevin you want to add to that too especially again I think we have some company-wide initiatives that we should -- we actually developed a strategy which I think is a little different than some other companies around making sure we can connect with some of those new emerging distribution channels within health care reform.
All right.
Randy covered it really well.
I would say that I agree with Randy I think the opportunity -- the situation right now is sort of choppy because of a little bit of confusion and the need for education and the need to understand how exchanges are going to work and there is not going to be just one size there's going to be many sizes and differences in exchanges depending on federal versus state versus private.
In that context I think there's a real opportunity to design wraparound products that fit with those exchanges.
We're going to be introducing a new group of hospital indemnity product during the course of 2013 for example.
I think there's a real opportunity as Randy said for new enrollment support and benefit communication support.
And Unum US in working with Colonial we're now in the process of connecting on a plug-and-play basis to over 40 different platforms out there for benefit administration and health exchange administration and enrollment management.
So I'm really optimistic about the future for voluntary given health care reform.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And is it right to think about you see the opportunity primarily in sort of supplemental products and kind of gap fillers that supplement what major medical would do? Yes.
I would say the greater opportunity will be there.
I think I don't see much disruption effect longer-term on the traditional group insurance marketplace.
I think that will continue to sort of operate the way it has.
Although you'll see I think a steady shift of employer-paid to employee-paid products over time much as what we've already experienced.
But the big growth opportunity I think is in voluntary.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one quick follow-up on voluntary as well.
Are you seeing any changes in the number of people that are electing voluntary benefits that I mean you could possibly attribute to the economy? Or I guess just generally has there been any change you've seen in election rates over the past few years? I'll answer for -- maybe Randy can supplement but participation rates have been very steady for us during the course of 2011 2012.
And actually in the fourth quarter of 2012 we had quite high participation rates in our voluntary enrollment so we haven't seen any deterioration in that at all.
Yes.
And Eric on our side of it the same story.
We've seen very steady participation rates.
In the first quarter saw a little bit of pressure in terms of the sales premium per application.
I think there was some pressure there just with the general economy.
The payroll tax increase had a little bit of an impact on things.
But in terms of overall participation very very stable.
It's even up a little bit.
We'll go next to John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two maybe different -- I think we've sort of beat sales and that sort of stuff to death at this point.
I'm interested in the pace of the Closed Block disability premiums declining? That pace of decline has really slowed down versus what we've seen in prior years.
And probably at least I think it's slowed down versus what you guys were expecting to see.
Any explanation there? Is that something that's just an anomaly here? Rick you want to touch on that? Yes certainly.
I'll give it a try here John.
In terms of closed disability block slowdown what you're going to see at that time and we're talking about a pretty long timeframe so nothing you'd see in any particular quarter is as people go through that process and stay on claim for a longer term you will see a little bit of slowing but I'd have to go back and look.
I wouldn't expect you to see anything dramatic here over the last several years.
I believe you will see it slow down as you look out over the course of 5 years to a decade.
So we'll have to go back and look at that John and get back to you on at the same point.
There shouldn't be anything particular that will cause any quick deterioration in the runoff.
We'd expect them to be pretty steady.
So Rick if I can add to that.
I think as everyone knows the Closed Block includes the IDI business as well as the long term care and each different characteristics from a premium point of view.
The IDI business was continuing to and has continued to decline.
At the same time the long term care business is actually continuing to grow.
So you've got 2 sort of offsetting activities actually within that block.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe that's just what I'm missing is focusing on one versus the other.
The other question I have for you is just a lot of moving parts right? I mean -- and rates and new money rates are lower now than they were let's say most of last year.
You're getting some pricing approvals on the long term care Closed Block business.
I'm wondering if you can give us a sense for with all the variable inputs here how we ought to think about the risk of some sort of reserve strengthening later this year? I know your 10-K indicated that there was potential for as much as about a 7% reserve strengthening based on a lot of different factors.
As we get through 3 or 4 roughly months of this year how is the combination of all those factors trending? Surely.
John if I were to take that and talk about where the reserves are relative they really hasn't changed from what we've been talking about over the course of the last year.
The pressure that we're seeing on interest rates is one that will take place over a period of time.
We talked just over a year ago about a 3 to 5 year time horizon.
And I think we've consistently said we're probably on the shorter end of that given where rates have gone back to that initial look.
But that still take us out a couple of years from now.
With regards to other things that we're seeing and the morbidity we've talked about our range of loss ratios in the 85% to 90% range.
And as you've seen this quarter and last quarter we're in that range.
So its a dynamic business but I wouldn't give you anymore there that would say that there's something imminent in the course of 2013 different than anything we've been talking to you about over the course of the last year.
And we'll go next to Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to do this.
Back to health care reform and the impact on small case.
We haven't really seen any impact at least noticeably on persistency.
Do you have a view on whether there should be any persistency impacts? Kevin? I think so far it's probably positive generally speaking in the sense that activity levels are down and therefore take over account possibilities are down.
And I think that's probably even a help maybe to persistency in general as brokers and employers focused their attention on health care.
They're not necessarily focusing on moving their ancillary lines of coverage.
So it's probably been a marginal benefit.
Down the road it's hard to tell I think you might see as I said earlier some shift down the road as health care reform gets put in place from employer-paid products to employee-paid products and that may move lines of coverage from what we call our group lines to our voluntary lines even though we're retaining the customers so you may see some voluntary growth offset a little bit by some group persistency pressure in the industry in general.
But right now I'd say it's probably a net positive.
Research Division</strong> Okay interesting.
And then I guess just on the sales side does it get worse before it gets better? No I don't think so.
I mean I think it probably sort of stays as it is at the moment.
It depends a little bit of course on competitive pricing dynamics too.
And it depends on how much emerges.
There's going to be a lot of activities during the second quarter from HHS and all those around health insurance exchange regulations getting sorted out.
And as that happens the pressure on brokers to communicate will increase.
Hopefully by the time we get into the third and fourth quarter brokers will be starting to pay attention to understanding what's going to happen with their client base and what kind of health insurance coverage they're going to put in place and what exchange.
And then they'll start to take a look at what they want to do with the group coverages.
So I'd expect that this phenomenon might last for the second and into the third quarter but hopefully hopefully reverse itself in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the voluntary side if you've already addressed this but what is the follow-on effect beyond the first quarter of the surrenders? And is there a way of framing out kind of an earnings impact normalizing for all the kind of the one-timers just kind of an ongoing impact? Rick you want to touch on that? Yes.
The ongoing impact that you'd see Mark of that is most -- basically like any other premium loss.
I think it was just a little bit accelerated in the quarter and that's why you'd see that onetime noise coming through as you wrote off the deck and as you wrote off that.
So we'll use the margin on those cases that are left and we'll replenish it with the new 2 cases that we bring on.
So I don't think there's anything special going on there between -- except for just general block migration that you'll see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just I guess continuation beyond this quarter on that activity? I probably wouldn't look at that activity relative to I'd look at the overall premium size and the good margins that we see coming through on that.
So yes there will be a little bit less margin that we would have anticipated but we want to replenish that with new sales and good margins as well.
And we'll go next to Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So on the voluntary area what is causing this attrition of business? Can we start there? Was it again was it a pricing and competitiveness issue? Or what exactly happened that led to this large loss of premium? Kevin why don't you start on the strategy side a bit because I think that's really where we're...
I mean just basically for the most part comes down to being disciplined about where we want to play in the voluntary market.
And we had several large accounts that we were -- that had high employee turnover rates and if we weren't going to get the necessary re-enrollment premium to bring the cases back to profitability.
So it's not very different than the process that we've gone through on the group business.
We're just -- we're focused on managing our in-force business effectively and making sure that we're focusing our in-force management and our sales management toward where we think we can get the best participation level the longest sustainable relationship with the client and the most lines of coverage to deepen that relationship with the client.
So strategically that's where we're focused on.
And again Kevin I think when you start with the fact that this reporting segment had a 12% 13% ROE.
We're not -- when you talk about going through some of those initiatives they're not really designed to deal with the real fundamental issue.
This is more strategic about positioning in the marketplace and with certain customers.
And basically making sure that we can maintain and even grow those margins by having the right mix of business.
Absolutely.
LLC Research Division</strong> My second question relates to long term care.
And I think you've touched on this in detail so I'm just looking for modestly more perspective.
My question is this.
When you originally I think it was end of 2011 decided to exit to the individual long term care business and took your large reserve increase you cited the fact I believe that your data were not statistically credible because of the small number of individuals on the claims.
And you referenced a Society of Actuaries study that came out the prior summer that it provided a basis for the reserve charge that you took.
Where do things stand now? And by that I mean what percentage of your policyholders are on claim? And in particular would it still be the case that the data is not statistically credible Unum's data alone is not statistically credible? Yes Eric I think the short answer to that is that it's still the same.
The statistical credibility of our data is quite small.
We're a small piece of the market and I think even the market is still working into statistical reliability so that has not changed at all.
And that won't change for many many years into the future so we will look to the overall industry Society of Actuaries to give us some guidance in terms of how the world is shaping up on that front but don't expect that that will take days for us in the near term or even in the medium to long term.
I think out of respect to the fact we know there's another call coming up beyond this we'll just -- we'll limit it to one more question please.
We'll go next to Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe to follow up on Chris's question earlier about the growth in the large case business.
If I understand correctly the growth is also and even in the core business it's in the larger case businesses.
So should we expect some additional volatility going forward through that in underwriting results? Yaron no I don't think so.
I mean the large case business the national client group business as they said a vast vast majority of that was sales of new lines of coverage and expansions of benefit coverages to existing clients.
So I wouldn't expect any volatility in fact from that.
The growth that we're seeing in the mid-market which I'll characterize as sort of the 100 to 2 000 life or so kind of marketplace that's strategic for us.
We want to focus our sales authorization where we can get the best sort of productivity return for the sales ever given the margins that we have in our business.
And so we tend to try to focus our efforts more in that sort of over 100 life marketplace.
And I wouldn't expect that to have any negative effect on the risk side of the equation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe one more.
Listening to the call today and your answers especially around health care reform sounds like if everything else holds kind of the status quo holds employment levels interest rate levels and so on but health care reform goes through and there's this release of pent-up demand sounds like there should be potential for both revenue growth and earnings growth next year from that alone.
Is that a fair way of thinking of it? Kevin why don't you think about it from the sales point of view and just the market acceptance point of view? As I said earlier I do think that when health care reform gets sorted out the relationships that we are building with exchanges and benefit administrators the products that we're designing to wrap around health care reform ought to generate upward trend I think in the growth curve for our voluntary lines of business.
And I think that's -- I mean the marketplace is confused right now.
And in a state of confusion it's sort of disrupted and there's lots of scrambling around and there's a lot of inertia.
I think once health care reform gets put in place I think there'll be brokers that will move more aggressively into voluntary.
I think companies like ours that are well positioned on the enrollment communications and product portfolio side will be well positioned for growth.
And I think many have heard me talk about this before but I think there remains a significant need for the things that we sell actually.
And that very basic need for that protection hasn't changed with health care reform.
I think what we're seeing at both with Unum US and with Colonial is it's obviously distracting brokers agents and those that are involved in making the buying decisions.
But that very basic need still exists.
And I think it's becoming more clear to the market to public policymakers and others to that effect.
And so that's why I think if you could sense some optimism beyond some of the disruption we're going through it's because the basic need is still very much there.
Well thank you all.
We know it's certainly -- as I said before there's been a number of companies that have recently reported which creates challenges for all of you.
So we thank all of you for taking the time to join us this morning.
And this will complete our first quarter 2013 earnings call.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Unum Group's Second Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
And at this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call for Unum.
Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the SEC and are also located in sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31 2012 and our subsequently filed Form 10-Q.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website at unum.com.
I'll remind you that the statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found on our website in the Investors section.
So participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen the President and CEO; Rick McKenney the Executive Vice President and CFO; and Kevin McCarthy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
As well as the CEOs of our core business segments Mike Simonds for Unum US Peter O'donnell for Unum UK and Randy Horn for Colonial Life.
And I will turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Tom? Thank you Tom and good morning everybody.
The second quarter was a strong quarter for the company with growth in operating earnings per share of 3.8% to $0.82 per share; and book value per share excluding AOCI increasing 11.4% to $30.97.
And let me highlight a few things before turning things over to Rick and Tom.
First I'm very pleased with the strength of our operating performance for the quarter with our favorable risk results generating stable to improved benefit ratios across most of our core business lines.
As we've discussed in the past our focus has been on generating not just growth but profitable growth through disciplined pricing both new business and renewal through disciplined underwriting and through our commitment to maintaining very high quality service levels so that we retain our customers and hopefully expand our relationships with them over time.
We are clearly benefiting from this strategy.
This past quarter for example we generated a return on equity in our core operating segments of 14.6% well above industry averages.
The operating return on equity for the entire company including our Closed Block was 11.6% also a very respectable level.
Secondly I'm encouraged by the performance we are seeing in those areas that have been operating below our expectations.
The margins in our Unum UK business for example improved again this quarter as we continued to make progress repricing and repositioning the group life block.
That along with our solid results in our group long-term disability line of business helped us strengthen the profitability in this segment.
In addition our Closed Block segment was generally in line with our expectations this quarter.
This segment particularly the long-term care product line will continue to be an area of focus for us and I might add the whole industry and we will continue to devote more resources to this area to ensure that we are effectively managing all the levers we have in this business.
Third it continues to be a challenging environment to profitably grow our business in the U.S.
The combination of still weak employment growth as well as the distraction resulting from the implementation of health care reform has slowed quote activity and intensified price competition in certain segments.
As a result you will see that sales in Unum US in the quarter declined 19% and in Colonial Life declined about 2%.
While sales declined 7% in Unum UK in local currency that was driven more by the significant pricing actions we are taking in our group life business more so than the broader market conditions which certainly was the case here in the U.S.
We believe these headwinds in the U.S.
are likely to continue but we are committed to maintain a disciplined approach we have taken in the market which has allowed us to produce strong margins and returns.
Returns as I mentioned earlier considerably above industry averages.
Turning now to investments.
We continued to deliver solid investments results and the quality of our portfolio remains excellent.
The rise in interest rates during the quarter was certainly welcome and today's new money yields still remain below our overall portfolio yield.
The move in rates has not caused us to change our strategy.
We will not stretch for yield by lowering our investment quality standards but instead continue to raise prices in the products that are most impacted by interest rates.
And lastly our strong operating results have resulted in continued solid statutory earnings which allows us to maintain a strong capital position and importantly financial flexibility.
Our risk-based capital level which was approximately 398% at the end of the second quarter continues to be at the upper end of our target range for 2013 of 375% to 400%.
In addition our holding company cash position continued to be strong at just under $600 million.
We continue to balance this high quality -- this healthy capital position with returning capital to our shareholders.
In the second quarter we repurchased just under $100 million of our shares in addition to raising the dividend by 11.5% effective with our third quarter payment.
So to summarize before we move to a more detailed discussion of the quarter we are pleased with the strong operating results we saw in the second quarter.
We continue to be cautious in our outlook for the business environment in the second half of the year which will likely to continue to challenge our ability to profitably grow our business especially here in the US.
However we are continuing as a company to take the actions necessary to ensure that we maintain our solid margins and financial flexibility and position our businesses for what I continue to believe our excellent long-term growth opportunities.
Now I'll turn things over to Tom for a review of our operating results.
Tom? Great.
Thanks Tom.
As you can see from our press release yesterday afternoon we reported net income of $218.6 million for the second quarter 2013 or $0.82 per diluted common share compared to net income in the year-ago quarter of $216.4 million or $0.76 per diluted common share.
Included in net income for the second quarter is an after-tax nonoperating retirement-related loss of $8.5 million and an after-tax net realized investment gain of $8.6 million.
Included in the year-ago second quarter was an after-tax nonoperating retirement-related loss of $7.5 million and an after-tax net realized investment loss of $1.4 million.
So excluding these items after-tax operating income was $218.5 million for this quarter or $0.82 per diluted common share compared to $225.3 million or $0.79 per diluted common share in the year-ago quarter.
Moving to an overview of our business segments.
Operating income for the Unum US segment increased by 0.6% to $214 million in the second quarter with premium income increasing by 1.5%.
The segment benefit ratio was essentially flat at 72% in the quarter and other expenses were also stable at 22% this quarter.
Within the Unum US segment operating income in the group disability line was $73 million for the second quarter compared to $70.4 million last year.
Premium income increased 1.5% over last year and the benefit ratio improved 83.9% from the year-ago 84.7%.
In the group life and AD&amp;D line operating income was flat at $57.3 million with premium income increasing by 3.4% and the benefit ratio improving slightly to 71.1% from 71.9% a year ago.
In the supplemental and voluntary line operating income declined slightly to $83.7 million compared to $85 million in the year-ago quarter.
Premium income declined by 0.8% to $273.8 million primarily reflecting the reinsurance of a small block of individual disability business which is partially offset by a slight increase in premium income in the voluntary benefits line.
Moving to Unum UK Operating income in this segment improved to GBP 21.8 million from GBP 19.1 million in the year-ago quarter.
Margins in this business continued their improving trend over the past few quarters as risk experienced in both the group disability and group life lines of business improved.
Wrapping up our core operations Colonial Life reported an increase in operating income of 5.2% in the second quarter to $71.1 million.
Premium income increased by 3.7% and the benefit ratio improved slightly to 52.1% compared to 52.5% in the year-ago quarter.
In the Closed Block segment operating income totaled $29.6 million for the second quarter compared to income of 24 -- excuse me $25.7 million in the year-ago quarter primarily driven by higher net investment income from an increase in assets supporting this segment.
Premium income declined by 4% relative to the year-ago quarter reflecting the expected runoff of the individual disability block.
And finally for the Corporate segment we reported an operating loss of $37.1 million for the second quarter compared to a loss of $25.9 million in the year-ago quarter.
Net investment income was lower due to lower yielding assets and a decrease in investment income attributable to tax credit partnerships.
Keep in mind that this negative impact is offset by a lower income tax rate due to the tax benefits recognized as a result of these investments.
Interest to debt expense was higher at $35.2 million compared to $32.2 million in the year-ago quarter due to the issuance of $250 million of debt during the third quarter of 2012.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Rick McKenney for further analysis of the second quarter results.
Great.
Thank you Tom.
Today I'll cover the profit trends you saw in our business segments in second quarter provide additional detail on our growth trends and also update you on our investment results and capital position.
As we look across the company this quarter we saw a generally favorable risk trend in all of our lines.
First on operating results in the second quarter Unum US operating earnings increased slightly with favorable risk experience in the group disability group life and AD&amp;D lines offsetting a slightly higher benefit ratio in the supplemental and voluntary lines.
Focusing on our group disability business.
The benefit ratio continues to perform quite well at 83.9% for the second quarter of 2013 which compares favorably to the 84.7% in the year-ago quarter and 84.3% in the first quarter this year.
The underlying experience continues to be favorable with stable to lower overall claim incidents and continued strong claim recovery performance.
This also reflects the benefit that we realized in our margins from the pricing discipline we show on new sales and renewals.
We continue to be very pleased with the performance of this business line.
Group life and AD&amp;D also produced strong results for us this quarter.
The benefit ratio improved slightly in the quarter to 71% compared to 72% in the year-ago quarter reflecting more favorable experience.
Earnings in this line was flat at $57.3 million for the quarter with premium growth of 3.4% being offset by lower net investment income.
And finally in Unum US the supplemental and voluntary line produced a good recovery from the first quarter when higher terminations in the voluntary benefits line resulted in a higher than normal level of DAC amortization.
For the second quarter earnings were $83.7 million still lower than the year-ago quarter of $85 million but much improved compared to the first quarter of $72 million.
Persistency was better during the second quarter in the voluntary benefits line as we anticipated but it is possible that we will still see some continued volatility.
As a result the accelerated DAC amortization from policy terminations likewise improved in the second quarter from the higher than normal level we experienced in the first quarter.
As for the underlying risk trends for the supplementary and voluntary line the individual disability recently issued product lines saw a generally stable claim experience with the year-ago quarter.
The voluntary benefits line saw a good risk results but were down slightly comparing to the very good results we saw a year ago.
All in all it was a good bounce back in earnings for this line for the second quarter as voluntary benefit [indiscernible] stabilized.
Moving to Unum UK earnings were GBP 21.8 million improved from both the year-ago quarter and the first quarter.
As Tom highlighted we're pleased with the margin improvement that is developing in our UK business as the group life repricing and repositioning further develops and the results in our group long-term disability line remain favorable.
From a risk perspective our group disability results in the second quarter were favorable due to both favorable claim incidents and claim recovery rates.
For the group life block results were favorable due to lower claims in the business that we have retained.
We continued to take aggressive rate action in our group life pricing and expect to continue to do so over the next few quarters.
As a result persistency for our group life declined for the first 6 months of 2013 to 74% compared to 83.5% for the first quarter of the year.
As we go through repricing this book this is not expected to see this level of volatility.
Colonial Life's results were solid again this quarter at $71.1 million an increase of just over 5%.
The benefit ratio of 52% was slightly better than both the year-ago quarter and previous quarter but a decreased level of claims in our accident sickness and disability line and favorable mortality in the life line of business.
And finally overall results in our Closed Block improved to $29.6 million this quarter compared to $25.7 million in the year-ago second quarter.
In the individual disability line the interest adjusted loss ratio was stable on a year-over-year basis at 82.7% reflecting lower paid claims offset by a less favorable claim incidents and claim recovery rates.
Long-term care earnings were higher on a year-over-year basis driven mainly by higher net investment income.
The interest adjusted loss ratio was 90% for the second quarter up slightly from the first quarter and 88% in the year-ago quarter.
The increase in the loss ratio on a year-over-year comparison was driven by an increase in the level of new submitted claims and higher group long-term care persistency driving higher buildup in active life reserves.
Now I'd like to move our discussion to sales and growth trends.
We saw a challenging quarter on the sales front as market activity slowed.
We attribute some of this to the discussion and distraction to our market from health care reform.
As a result we saw a lower numbers of cases coming to market but we also saw higher persistency in our own book.
Therefore premiums held in rather well.
Overall sales in Unum US in the second quarter were lower by 19% compared to the year-ago quarter group sales were down 20% and the supplemental benefit sales declined by 16%.
In addition to a lower number of quotes the competition for those cases that do come to market can be extremely intensive and our discipline may keep us out of the running in the short term.
As I mentioned a negative impact to sales is offset somewhat in that persistency has remained at very healthy levels which is 89% for group LTD and group life for the first half of the year.
We continued to see little to no benefits to premium income from marketplace growth.
And in total premium growth was 1.5% in the group disability line and 3.4% in group life and AD&amp;D.
To echo Tom's introductory comments while we would certainly like to see an acceleration of these levels our priority remains to protect our profit margins.
In the UK sales results again this quarter reflect the actions we are taking to improve the profitability in this business.
We were happy to see sales in the group disability line increasing by 5% while as expected sales in group life declined by 22%.
I would remind you that the premium income was affected in the second quarter reflecting the 50% quota share reinsurance agreement we have.
Without that the UK would have seen premium growth of above 3%.
And finally Colonial Life sales declined by 2% in the second quarter.
While we saw an encouraging trend with higher sales from existing accounts we continue to see slower sales and activities with new accounts.
And specifically we're seeing very slow activity in the under-50 life market a trend consistent with our Unum US segment driven again we believe by disruption from health care reform.
Persistency showed a slight improvement for the first half of the year and premium growth remains positive at 3.7% for the second quarter.
So let me transition to the balance sheet and the investment portfolio.
The credit quality of our investment portfolio remains in very strong shape.
The increase in treasury yields and the slight widening in corporate bonds spreads were welcomed development in the second quarter even though this decreased our net unrealized gain from our portfolio by roughly $2 billion.
The higher new money yields helped us to get the cash balances in our product portfolios fully invested during the quarter.
This helped to reduce the drag on net investment income we saw in the first quarter from holding higher cash balances and positions us better as we move into the second half of the year.
While interest rates are up from the historic low levels over the past several months we are still seeing new money yields well below our portfolio yields.
So the pressure on yields will continue.
In the second quarter our overall portfolio yield declined by 6 basis points to 6.35%.
It is difficult to draw conclusions from the overall portfolio though and we look at it product by-product basis.
We continue to make pricing adjustments with our renewals and new business pricing to reflect these low interest rates.
A good example is evidenced in our Unum US LTD business where we experienced a 1 basis point decline in the interest reserve margin to 91 basis points.
This was caused by a 4 basis point decline in the portfolio yield while the aggregate discount rate declined by 3 basis points.
As a result of the adjustments the new claim discount rate remained in 2011 and 2012.
We made no adjustments in new claim discount rate in this quarter.
As related to our balance sheet in June we announced that we will be freezing our US-defined benefit pension plans effective December 31 of this year and replace it with a defined contribution plans.
Because this eliminates all future service accruals for active employees in the plans we were required to remeasure the benefit obligations to our plans during the second quarter.
Combined with the $50 million contribution this decreased our net pension liability by $327 million.
This has a beneficial impact of approximately $0.80 to our reported book value per share which increased by 6.2% on a year-over-year basis to $31.80.
These changes are helpful in managing our retirement benefits in our risk profile going forward but will not change how much we contribute to our employees on behalf of their overall retirement package.
Moving to an update on our capital position.
We continue to see very good trends.
Statutory net income remained strong at $173 million for the second quarter and $348 million for the first half of the year which has been higher than our run rate over the last several years.
The weighted average risk-based capital ratio for our U.S.
life insurance companies was approximately 398% again at the top end of our targeted range of 375% to 400%.
Holding company cash and marketable securities totaled $579 million at the quarter end and include the impact of $50 million contribution to our U.S.
pension plan I mentioned.
We also increased our dividend by 11.5% and share repurchase activity totaled $98 million in the second quarter.
We continue to have strong financial flexibility as we head into the second half of the year.
Finally we had no change to our 2013 outlook and continue to anticipate growth and will have operating earnings per share to be within the range of 0% to 6%.
I'll turn the call back to Tom for his closing comments.
Tom? Thanks Rick.
Before I move to your questions I want to close by reiterating that we are pleased with our operating results for the second quarter.
Driven by strong overall risk results we again generated solid profitability and returns and positive cash flow of the company.
There is no doubt that producing profitable top line growth will be a challenge.
However we are maintaining a disciplined growth strategy that has served us so well in the past.
And with that this completes our prepared comments.
And operator let's move to question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple here if I may.
Tom in your opening remarks you discussed competition and you said it was in certain product -- I'm sorry pockets.
Hopefully you can fill that out for us? Yes.
Maybe I should ask Kevin to respond to that because I think much of that actually is within our Unum US business actually.
Kevin? Yes.
I think the environment in general competitively has softened a bit over the last 6 to 9 months.
I think as both Tom and Rick mentioned cases coming to market are fewer activity levels are down incumbents are defending in-force case as well.
That's reflected as well in our own high levels of persistency.
And I think a lot of employers particularly the smaller end of the market are dealing with health care reform and maybe putting off some benefit decision into 2014 perhaps.
That said I think that companies have a couple of choices.
They can defend their margins and defend their in-force business and back off on the aggressive pricing on the new sales side so they can decide that they want to take share.
In our case our margins as Tom mentioned are considerably higher than the industry averages and we're just unwilling to sacrifice the pricing discipline in margins in pursuit of market share.
We'll just let the market settle down.
I think Mike Simonds' here with me.
Mike you want to add anything to that? No.
I guess what I want to add is 2 quick things.
One is you probably feel the slowdowns in proposal activity most acutely as you move down market the small employers have less resources to deal with important decisions around reporting requirements from client's requirements essential benefits and so forth.
The second piece will be more thinking about the long term.
I mean as it's taking a great deal of time for employers and their advisers to sort through health care reform as their sorting through it it's playing out in ways that I think are very advantageous to us.
So employers are not moving to drop benefits rapidly.
They're keeping them in force.
In general employees probably have a bit more financial exposure that creates gaps for our products.
So we think as they're moving through health care reform it is a short-term distraction.
But I think long term bodes real well for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I could follow up on the small end the less than 50 my understanding is that these firms are not going to have to provide insurance.
So I guess I don't quite -- and maybe I'm wrong on that but I guess I don't quite understand what the decision process is for these guys.
If I'm an employer everything is pretty much status quo.
What am I so concerned about? Yes.
Great question Steven.
This is Mike.
I mean I'd day first and foremost many if not most from Unum US standpoint the employers we're doing business with are offering health care benefits today right? So one of the key positions they have is that public exchanges come online they've got to decide are they going to continue to provide health insurance or they're going to take advantage of public option.
They're going to think about their contribution strategy whether they're going to stay on DB or go to a more DC strategy under 50 level.
It's kind of a great deal to sort through.
I think compounding that is is the brokers and consultants that are serving the market have clients that run up and down the spectrum.
And so where their top energy is going to be focused maybe pulled up-market and where they might have been spending more time helping on our lines of business down market they've got less time to do that.
And that's also been reinforced I think Randy in Colonials business too because I think you've seen the greatest weakness actually is in the very small case start at the end of the market.
You may want to speak to that just for a second.
Yes Tom.
In addition to what Mike Simonds mentioned about employers small employers that do offer health plans today just having to sort through the requirements of the legislation and make that very basic decision as to whether they should continue to offer a health plan going forward there.
For those that do not I think a lot of those employers are wanting to see what the impact of the public exchange is going to be in terms of costs payroll impact to their employees that type of thing.
So just a lot of things for them to sort through we are positioning our agency force to help those small employers deal with those questions and position their plans appropriately.
And as Mike said certainly some short-term headwinds but I think some real opportunities for us going forward.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Glasspiegel with Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just staying on Steven's question on the sales distraction from ACA.
Is this a surprise to you or that this is causing slow decision-making by customers and no new cases coming on? Or was this sort of as you expected? Kevin? Bob I would say no.
It's not a surprise.
I think what's been a little bit different is sort of the delay in implementing health care reform and the sort of the consistency of inconsistency around the administration's -- the way in which administration is dealing with.
And so I think it's sort of prolonged the impact.
I was noticing in ALM's [ph] reported results that they're consulting revenues from health care reform consulting were up but their brokerage fees from commissions were down.
And I think if you think about that from our standpoint we're not on that consulting sides.
So the consulting side benefits there on [ph] but the brokerage commissions directly are reflective of the sort of what we're experiencing as well.
So not a surprise in terms of its effect but it sort of flowing through at a much slower pace than I think many had originally predicted.
Bob I think Mike's going to answer this too.
I think Randy mentioned it but it's Mike it's true with your business as well.
We actually made a substantial investment in our field infrastructure and help equip them to deal with these health care issues.
I'm probably a little surprised Mike how much actually we've been a resource to people trying to help them through that process.
Yes it's put us in an interesting position that were a little bit outside of the fray so we've seen this as an objective source of information.
So that's been an add for us.
I guess probably what's been a bit more surprising has been the compounding effect not just less activity in the market but when you compound that with as Kevin alluded to some softening in prices that's probably been the amplifier.
That's been a bit higher than expected here in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
If I could just zoom in on the group life repricing what did you see that caused the need to do that? You're talking about the UK business? Research Division</strong> I thought you were talking about repricing the US but maybe I misunderstood.
No actually most of the emphasis is really on the UK Bob.
So really I think as you know we -- that there was a concerted effort I think as we learn more about the underlying profitability of that business that we need to put some rate into the marketplace and I think you saw the impact of that this quarter both on sales and persistency.
But we're really in a very nice position relative to where we thought we'd be in terms of enhancing the margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's old news there.
You've been talking about that for a while.
Appreciate it.
Good.
Thanks Bob.
And we'll take our next question from Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
First I guess maybe for Rick on the capital situation.
So year-to-date the share repurchases are I guess $193 million.
I think on the first quarter call you said that you're still pretty comfortable with the $500 million guidance for the full year.
So I guess my first question is that still your expectation? Let me see if I could -- let me just interject a little bit.
This is Tom.
Just to sort of kind of refresh everyone's memory about our capital strategy because I do think it's always good to sort of start at that high level then certainly Rick can speak the specifics of the share buyback.
But I think nothing has really changed.
I think with the company in terms of our commitment on one hand to focus on generating solid consistent profitability which generates very solid cash flow.
I think that part of the machine as you saw with the first quarter results continues to work very very well.
I think the other [indiscernible] thing you've seen us over the last 5 or 6 years is I think good stewards of that capital.
And you think about it from our position we have a range of things that we think about as we think about how to deploy that capital.
It's everything from the business needs to some corporate needs like the pension -- the contribution that Rick referred to in his comments the debt repurchases.
Plus obviously share buybacks of which we done about $2.3 billion at an average price of about 85% of book value and dividend increase.
And I just give you that piece of backdrop because I think Rick it's safe to say as we think about it we think about a whole series of different deployment options for that capital which obviously a lot of the focus in the short term has been on share buybacks.
But remind everybody there's a whole host of things I think Rick we think about as we think about how to put capital to work.
Yes -- no I'd add Suneet.
We’re active capital managers.
So as we come into the year we have a range of options.
We've executed on multiple of those options including share repurchase to the first half of the year.
As you look out through the second half of the year we'll be active capital managers.
And I think the most important thing excuse me as Tom alluded to is our capital generation is extremely strong.
So if you look at our stat earnings are some of the best 6-month numbers we've put up in a while for the first half of the year.
So it gives us a lot of financial flexibility and we'll capitalize that in a variety of forms just like we did in the first half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the other question I have was about the long-term care business.
Again just kind of revisiting history a little bit here.
I think when you took your charge in 2011 you talked about maybe 3 to 5 years of cushion before you might have to revisit that was sort of -- the time frame was narrowed to close to 3 years given the drop in interest rates which I'm guessing would put us into the 2014 kind of time frame.
So again I don't think they moved around a little bit here.
I just want to see if that's still kind of how you're thinking about it? And I think in the past you've also talked about order of magnitude maybe $250 million after-tax.
I want to see if that's still in line with your current thinking.
Sure.
Let me give you a sense of what's happened in the market.
In terms of rates coming up in these near-term periods so we certainly have been happy to see particularly the longer end.
And we think about 30-year treasury rates and credit spreads on that end of the curve over time.
Now they have come up recently but I would take you back when we first communicated out those numbers and those ranges in terms of years and things like that.
We actually were in a similar position that we are today.
So we saw it moved down.
We communicated that our range kind of narrowed or came to the shorter end and now we moved back up somewhere in the middle of that range.
So we feel similar to what we disclosed back at that time in terms of how that looks and we think those ranges probably still hold rolled forward by the amount of time that we've talked about.
Research Division</strong> Right -- well I -- just when you say back at that time are you talking about back to end of 2011? Correct.
It's correct.
So back then we would have said 3 to 5 years given where rates were.
Today our best view -- as rates compressed we said that time frame probably got shorter.
And now as rates have come back up to those similar levels we'd be back into that range that we talked about originally.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then the order of magnitude of the charges is that kind of in line with what you were thinking back then the $250 million? Yes.
When you think about that that actually on an after-tax basis would have been what we took into account back then which took us out in that 3- to 5-year range.
It might be slightly different than that given hedges and other things that go into the calculus but I think that somewhere in that range is probably reasonable.
It depends on what we're seeing and what the outlook is and what the forward curve looks like in terms of how we'd go through that process.
So I don't want to speculate too much in terms of quantum but I think the -- what we did last time is good indicator of what that might look like.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then just my last question is just on the Unum US business.
The sales as you noted were down about double digits but given your renewals and the price increases I think your premiums are kind of holding flattish.
So based on kind of where you are with those price increases do you think that if 2014 is another year of pretty challenging sales we'd still be looking at sort of a flattish premium line or are we going to start to see that premium line come in? Well trying to be optimistic here I think as health care reform goes into implementation in the beginning of 2014 we should start to see some dampening of that negative effect on sales.
So that should help us.
I think cautiously we might start to see some of the improvement in employment.
We start to see some of that improvement in the U.S.
economy this year although most of the employment improvement has been concentrated in sectors that aren't necessarily target markets for us in sectors like construction and retail and recreation and things like that whereas industry sectors that are more in our wheelhouse like health care haven't seen growth in employment.
So when we look into 2014 hopefully the economy continues to improve.
Sales environment starts to improve.
I think if the interest rate environment improves we won't be having to move prices up as much as we've had to in the last couple of years.
So all in all I would say 2014 ought to be a better year than 2013 but that sort of the best I can do at the moment.
And we'll take our next question from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So I had -- just with the first question I just had a follow-up to Suneet's question on buybacks.
I still wasn't clear what your answer was.
Are you committed to the $500 million or are you not for 2015? I recognize that you've retired some debt and put money into the pension plan but could you clarify that? Rick yes go ahead Rick.
Yes.
I think when you look at the full year I think as you look at the back half of the year we're going to look at the different alternatives that we have looking out there.
And so when you say "Are you committed to that?" We're committed to the active capital managers over the back half of the year and I'd leave it at that.
We will have a variety of forms to put it to work in as Tom alluded to.
And if we can keep generating like we do we have no reason to believe we won't be generating the way we do and we'll be putting that to work.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But not necessarily $500 million like you look at buybacks but you're just not willing to outline an exact number? Yes.
And I think Jimmy if could add to that even though it's not the only determinant I mentioned the series of things that as you know we think about as we think about the deploying the excess capital.
Again we repurchased 2.3 million shares at an average price of about 85% of book value.
Our stock is trading at a much different level to that even though again that's not the only variable as Rick said in the way we think about these things.
It has to be something we take into account.
So...
Research Division</strong> Now and that makes sense.
You're still even if you still do less.
It's still a descent amount.
I'm just -- I was just not clear on what your answer.
[indiscernible] that brings a new piece you're hearing from us a little bit this quarter actually.
As you know many other companies have been saying very much the same thing.
We were fortunate -- if I can digress just a moment we were fortunate enough as you know to have the wherewithal to be buying back stock in incredibly low prices over the last 4 or 5 years.
And so we're very conscious of looking at the ROI in those investments.
And so again I want to reiterate it's not just a price-sensitive decision here because of the series of variables that go into that but I think Rick that's embedded in I think your comments.
Research Division</strong> And then on the U.K.
business you've had stable results for the past couple of quarters.
Should we assume that if they're stable for the second half of the year that you would not renew your reinsurance contracts or what are you thinking there? Kevin? Yes.
I would -- I expect the result to be stable and improving going through the second half of this year and into 2014.
But I think the reinsurance program has served us well.
I think there is still a lag in reporting of group life claims that makes the existence of the reinsurance program valuable to us.
And I think our intent would probably be to continue it.
Although we're not yet at that decision point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on the disruption because of health care reform any reason to believe that that would dissipate as you get to the end of the year or will that continue because there's still no clarity on how the exchanges are going to be set up and what the various states are going to be doing? Yes.
I think it would -- I mean people are approaching the January 1 2014 execution deadline.
Exchanges are supposed to be up and running by then although I have my doubts as to whether that's going to be the end result.
So I would expect a slow dissipation into 2014.
And we'll take our next question from Erik Bass with Citi.
Research Division</strong> So I guess going back to Kevin for a little more detail here maybe but we've seen reported job growth in the U.S.
now for a number of months.
But it sounds like you're yet to see any benefit in terms of the natural growth factors.
Is this because of a lag effect or is it really more because the job growth that we're seeing is in sectors where Unum is less of a presence? I think it's both things.
I think there's some lag effect.
You wouldn't see it start to show up in the benefits-related payrolls for several quarters after so you get that growth.
Most employers have some sort of waiting period before you get your employee benefits especially those paid for by the company.
I want to make sure that you're locked in and embedded in the job.
And then I think as you've said and as I said earlier the growth has been much more in the construction retail recreation lower-cost service end of the -- in industries in the United States as opposed to sort of maybe the more highly paid financial sector or the health care sector.
Health care actually I think it might have seen sort of a slight decline in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on I guess also on the rise in interest rates how does that impact your thinking about needing to potentially make any further reductions to the discount rate? Rick? And certainly with the rising rates that we've seen it certainly takes off some of the pressure around that.
As you've seen over the last several years we managed our discount rate over a period of time taking a forward look to that in terms of how it plays out.
But certainly this rise in rate has been helpful so I don't want to take it off the table but certainly a much better environment in terms of matching up.
As I had in my prepared remarks our margins particularly in our long-term disability line remained very healthy at just over 90 basis points so it gives us a lot of flexibility around that.
And we'll take our next question from Seth Weiss with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just a follow-up on Erik's question on the rising interest rates and going back to the December Investor Day.
When thinking about that 6% to 8% headwind facing from lower rates I realized we're still in the low rate environment today but it's pretty different than the 1.6% 10-year rate we had at that December time.
Maybe you could just help us think about kind of that headwind as it relates to 100 basis points movement in the general environment? Rick? Certainly if I could take you through I think when you think about the charts we laid out which were the downward pressure we have on our earnings from an interest rate environment and then how we're offsetting that with the price increases so we're certainly still out there on a price increase front.
In terms of how that downward pressure plays through it doesn't snap back.
So it's going to play out over a period of time as we put cash flows to work in the investing side as we think about how our discount rates work over time.
And so we'll certainly give a better look at that as we get out towards the end of the year but I won't expect a material change certainly as you look in 2013 from that snapback in rates.
But we'd echo what many others have said out there which is this rise in rate is certainly helpful but it's something that we still are in a low rate environment and something we're going to have to work through as a company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a one quick follow-up on that.
When thinking about that pressure it's obviously relative to a more normal rate environment.
Maybe you can help us think about when you set that out in December kind of what 10-year rate that would be sort of in reference against? I think back then it was probably $190 million something like -- wherever the spot rate was at the time is what we're referencing and so you'd have to look at it.
It wasn't as quite as low as the lows we've seen here in the first half of the year but it was somewhere in that range.
I just have to give that back to you exactly what that was.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I'm sorry I mean the $160 million or $190 million relative to what in terms of where that goes this year? That would've been -- yes all of that analysis was year-over-year so it would've been to the prior year.
And we'll take our next question from Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up just on the capital.
I mean obviously you have been one of the better capital return stories within the group and a lot of that has been attributed to what you guys have talked about in terms of the strong free cash flow that you generated.
So I guess as that continues to kind of build here and maybe the pace of share repurchases moderates you could have an issue where you have maybe more capital than what you want and I think you've been pointing to that here for the past number of years.
So can you -- maybe as we think about the competing sources can you talk about size of deals if that something you would consider? Is there anything in the pipeline? And then maybe where you'd potentially look to take your dividend to? Yes Chris let me introduce it but then maybe have Rick really more to speak to it.
But you're right again I think we have many different potential uses of capital.
I think one of the messages we're trying to get across here is beyond just share buybacks.
There are other things that we have in our quiver so to speak to think about deploying that capital.
I think we've made some good decisions in the past.
M&amp;A is certainly one of them.
Rick and I said that we'll continue to look at things but I think this group knows we've been very very cautious about being sure that we don't get our -- get extended into things that we don't know well and don't have the financial characteristics that we work so hard to protect.
But anyone who speak too about the M&amp;A environment? I think what I'd add to that is something we've said in previous calls as well is that when our shares are trading at a steep discount that they were it was a very very high hurdle to have any deal clear to that.
So we chose to buy back our stock.
As our stock prices moved up I think that the other things come into play.
Particularly to the M&amp;A markets we've been active throughout this period of time so even as we've been buying back shares we have been on the look in terms of different pieces that we have out there capabilities out there things that are in our space and so things that are definitely on strategy is what we've been looking at and we continue on that front.
I certainly don't have anything to announce.
The flow externally is particular to what we look at.
It's still I'd say medium to slower but it's certainly something we'll be active on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we think about the move up in rates curious if you're seeing any potential opportunities to reduce your exposure to the closed block? And could you potentially use some capital to shore up further pieces of the closed block to make it more enticing for a potential buyer or reinsurance solution? Let me start and again ask Rick to speak.
But I think as you -- you've heard I think Chris in my comments at the front end of the call we are putting more resources behind our closed block in terms of moving additional individuals and people over there to be sure that again we're actively managing every lever that we have in that particular part of the business.
And I think you're right there's one element that this is capital-related but I think Rick it's not at the exclusion of other things.
We're certainly working rate increases through the process.
We're doing a number other things operationally to continue to improve the performance to that block.
But again I think the key message is we are actively managing that business and using all the levers I think we have.
I'm not sure we're prepared to talk about doing something in terms of like we did with the disability block of business.
I don't think the environment is not necessarily right for that but if and when those things change we're certainly going to be looking at those different kind of choices.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last quick one on LTC specifically around the charge in 2011.
We've talked a little bit about the interest rate environment but from a sort of policyholder behavior experience recognizing it's just 1.5 years out but anything that's mainly deviated meaningfully from the assumptions that you guys made at that time? Yes.
So we've seen inter-quarter volatility on different elements.
We've reported that and talked to you about them.
As we've seen incidents have been -- tend a little bit higher than we expected early on but I think the most important thing that you laid out is it's still very early in this block of business.
Reserves are based on very long term assumptions around that so inter-quarter volatility that we see out there really doesn't influence that in a material way.
It's more trends that we see out there and we continue to watch all of those as does the rest of the industry.
And we'll take our next question from Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to long-term care.
Can you just remind us the 90% in interest adjusted loss ratio.
Just remind us where you would need to get to before you'd be out of harm's way? I know 90% is too high but is it 85% or -- I just want to get a better handle for what the goal is and where you need to get to.
And then I guess a related question how much -- at a 90% interest adjusted loss ratio how much margin would you have right now in the block? Rick? Sure.
I think the 90% really relates to my last question which is that's a fairly short-term measure around what it's running at.
So we've said previously that we'd like to see ranges below that over time and -- but it is over a long period of time and rate increases come into play in that and how that influences that and so I think that that's something we'll actively manage and actively communicate to you where we've seen.
So I think that 90% is probably okay for the time being but certainly it's something we'd like to work down with price increases et cetera over a very long-term period of time.
Research Division</strong> You're asking a question about margin relative to that so that's a multifaceted type discussion around how it is.
We talked a little bit about the interest rate environment in that.
The business is still -- the business line is still generating money.
You would've seen closed block results which were quite good in the quarter at about $30 million and that was driven by pretty good results in long-term care.
So we're still clipping along on that front.
Research Division</strong> But where do you need to get to from -- in interest rate adjusted loss ratio longer-term to be at a comfortable level? Is it mid-80s low 80s? I just want to get a better handle on that.
Yes I think I'd probably keep it more near term in terms of where we can run and look at it.
It's going to be right in that 90% range so where we like it to be lower and we're talking about multiple years and time frames around which we like to see that trend down but we're comfortable with where we are right now.
Research Division</strong> And Tom that gets us to really the back.
But again we are using every lever we possibly have to improve the operational performance of that block.
And I guess it's been a while maybe since we've given Kevin an update on just some of the rate actions that we're putting in place.
But people shouldn't assume that we're not doing we shouldn't-- permit and I think we're doing all the things we can on that front.
Maybe a quick update there might be helpful.
Back in when we took the charge in sort of fourth quarter 2011 and put the block into closed block status and established gross premium valuation reserves we anticipated and planned for the execution of rate increases in the upwards 25% and above on the block of business.
We've been going through the approval process with all the states over the last year.
We're basically through that approval process now.
I think we've only got 2 states outstanding still Florida and New York.
I think it's Florida and New York.
They're still outstanding.
And we're exceeding our expectations in terms of the rate increases approved.
That said as we said in the past it's going to be an interim[ph] process and we'll be going through that a number of times.
We've started implementing those rate increases.
That cash flow will start to flow in primarily in 2014 more than in 2013.
We'll have to see what policyholder behaviors as a result to that whether that take -- except the rate increases they could buy down their benefits instead of the rate increase or they could lapse all of those.
We've got assumptions about all of those things built in and right now I'd say we're running better than expectations which over time should as Rick alluded to should move the loss ratio down but it'll take time for that to occur.
Research Division</strong> And Kevin just to help us understand what the whole dynamic of re-rates would mean.
Is that likely -- is that something that's already factored into reserves or is that going to be a benefit as we think about it going forward in terms of that flowing through? A significant amount of the rate increase was factored into the original assumptions.
What we've achieved so far is slightly above what we factored into those assumptions.
But also as Rick said those assumptions include assumptions about interest rates.
They include assumptions about incident rates mortality all of those things over the life of a long-term care block that's going to build 20 30 40 50 years.
Those assumptions are going to move around with changes in medical technology with changes in interest rates et cetera so that's why the rate increase process has to be an interim [ph] one.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my last question I guess for Rick the Unum Provident International Limited had a modest loss on a stat accounting basis this quarter.
Was this being driven by long-term care and what would the outlook be there? No we don't get into that we don't actually talk too much about our detailed entities because it really can get lost in the details of volatility you might see in any one entity.
We did have a loss and it's actually in our supplement around UPIL which is our Bermuda subsidiary.
On the quarter but actually we made money in the last quarter so you're going to see inter-quarter volatility and I really don't want to get into drivers and attributes by each one of our legal entities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And sorry one last one if I could sneak in just for Tom Watjen.
So Tom I just want to get a better handle for broad capital management the way you're thinking about it.
I totally hear what you're saying about considering where the stock is in valuation as it relates to buyback but I want to get a better sense for are you guys now thinking a bit more defensively with capital management considering what could go wrong? Or is it more still pretty offensive-minded in terms of if you're not buying back shares then you'd be doing something more offensive-oriented? Maybe Tom the word I prefer to use is balanced.
I think we've always had a balance approach.
As I mentioned there were a number of different things we thought about as a potential use of capital that we've both created as well as the excess we've had on our balance sheet.
And I don't think that balance point has actually changed at all.
As I said we want to continue to do the right things.
We've proven as a -- I think as a management team we've done the right things in terms of allocating that excess capital across the different set of dimensions here.
And I think those areas that we can potentially invest in that are no different today than they were 2 years ago or 5 years ago frankly.
The relative attractiveness of those can actually change as we said based on market conditions and strategic considerations and those kind of things.
But I don't think anything has changed Rick as it relates to how we've gone about this in a very very balanced way in a very disciplined way.
And if we end up accumulating more capital in a period of time -- periods of time like this that's not a bad place to be either if we don't find a good way to deploy it.
So I think that's where I actually tend to -- I'd like you to think Tom about the approach.
It's still remains very very balanced and we continue to have that full menu in front of us.
And we'll take our next question from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to touch base about the earnings outlook for 2013.
Operating EPS was up 6% for the first half of this year.
You're still guiding to 0% to 6%.
Does that sort of imply flat operating EPS for the back half of this year? Rick? Yes.
I think that when you look at it Jay when we think about our 0% to 6% we went into the year we're not going to adjust that range until we see something material that takes us either one way of the range or outside of the other.
So we still see ourselves relatively in that.
We're not intoning anything by leaving it where it is today.
We still feel comfortable in that range and we'll continue to execute through the second half of the year.
So I wouldn't read anything into the fact that we didn't change it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On a separate issue given the decline in year-over-year sales in the U.S.
probably greater than a lot of people's expectations can you talk to us about how things are going so far in 3Q? Yes.
Rick? I guess my answer to that will be we won't talk about 3Q already.
So we're early into it and so we'll take the long term and we'll talk to you in next earnings call about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last issue on the improvement in the U.K.
earnings.
Should we anticipate that that trend continues not just on a year-over-year basis but quarter-over-quarter? Yes.
Certainly when you look at our U.K.
results we were actually quite pleased with where they are today.
I don't we've gotten to the point.
It's still pretty early in our repricing process.
The reinsurance that we talked about and all those different pieces so I think we're optimistic about where that trend line lands.
But I think that we'll wait and see a couple of more quarters into that process before we declare a victory.
So I'd say we're happy for now and we'll watch third and fourth quarter how it plays out but the teams are doing great job there.
And we'll take our next question from Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go a little bit of detail maybe on the investment portfolio.
I think the portfolio yield is about 6.35% now.
Can you give us a little perspective on new money rates and also what kind of coupons are rolling off the portfolio at this point? It's a good question Jeff.
And I think when we look at it we really don't spend a lot of time analyzing our portfolio at the macro level.
It's a product line by product line thing.
When we invest it's really to back up our liabilities and how we look at it.
So when we manage line-by-line we actually see the portfolio runoffs being reasonable over their time frame and so if you see that overall yield come down which in a macro level I would expect you would we're taking offsetting impacts and pricing that we've talked about in the past on the other side of that equation.
So it's good discussion good analysis but the new money rates that we're seeing today whether it's the 30-year which we back up on our LTC business are closer to the 10 with our disability business we're happy to see those moved up but we'd still like to see a little bit more of an increase here over time and going through that.
So it's a good discussion certainly happy where we are today.
And I'd reiterate that the credit quality of that portfolio is in extremely good shape.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the U.K.
obviously you're taking the pricing actions that you've needed to take and have a lot of discipline there.
I guess the hope would be at some point that the market firms along with you.
I guess still based on what we're seeing with persistency so far it doesn't appear that maybe there's a lot of market firming.
Is there any reason to hope that maybe the market is turning yet or not? Jess maybe I'll ask Peter O'Donnell to talk about that.
And actually one of the things you look at headline result you look at the declining sales position there's a piece in there Peter we should talk about which is that's really largely of group life.
The LTD business actually has some good growth.
And actually most encouraging we also assume soft -- wonderful growth trends among first time buyers.
But maybe Peter just maybe embellish a little bit on that.
Thanks Tom.
Thanks very much for the question Jeff.
So if I start with the LTD line our sales year-on-year are up 5%.
And we do see price competition also in the LTD line.
Our customers and brokers really value Unum's expertise and our focus.
However some of our competitors aren't as disciplined.
And we do see a lot of competition at the large case.
The big strategic change for us is through the last 12 months to 2 years we've been looking at a new to market and getting new employee classes and almost 50% of our sales in the second quarter are actually came from either first time buyers or people deepening penetration bringing new class of employees.
And that gives us momentum to be able to sort of get momentum behind the sales and not be so dependent on price in the switch business.
On the group life side where we are there is there's a bit of portfolio cleansing going on there I would say Jeff.
So there are some schemes that we didn't like to look at.
We were putting some large price increases through our group life book double-digit plus.
We expect that to continue for the next 6 to 12 months really and really some of our competitors as you know people get around and they chase volumes.
They're not as interested in margin.
And I think they'll experience some pain on that so we would expect that market to sort of move to a more rational level over that 2014 period really.
And we'll take our next question from Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to dig in yet again into the U.S.
sales.
And if I understand correctly the 3 main drivers for the decline were ACA the economy and increased competition.
If I look sequentially really things like this quarter was the first quarter where you really saw a very significant drop where I'm thinking ACA that was kind of a headwind for the last 2 quarters as well.
The economy has certainly been headwind for several quarters.
So is it really competition that's changed so much? And Mike maybe you should take that because especially though when you do have fewer at-bats how much that can change people's competitive spirit.
Yes thanks absolutely.
So yes you actually have seen that with your clients in the market that are actively looking to evaluate different benefits providers.
You see many more competitors that are more aggressive competition and we're going to hold the line there.
I think as you talked sequentially quarter-over-quarter one thing that we've talked to Kevin has spoken to is the fact that in the large end of the market we're actually towards -- or better suited to be able to sort through health care and move some things on the ancillary side.
We've got a couple of good quarters and that's an opportunistic segment for us.
So for the last few quarters we've -- through our partnership with UnitedHealthcare through our focus on a couple of targeted segments we've had some good wins there that we've been able to bring clients on board at acceptable pricing levels.
So that's covered on the disability side where we've seen a little bit of a downward trend over the last couple of quarters.
And when you see that it's primarily ACA and economy-related.
As we look forward again as Kevin said I think as employers push through and get health care changes sorted we're cautiously optimistic that we'll start to see improvements in our sales results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And about that cautious optimism so given the increased competition that we see in certainly almost any management team that we talked to these days is focused on U.S.
group or voluntary supplemental.
What gives you the confidence I guess that that headwind of increased competition will not overcome the offsetting tailwind of -- at the release of ACA demand? Yes I mean that's a couple of things.
One is I think the long-term trends are very positive for our business.
I think we see strong need and actually increasing need for the products we've got.
U.S.
workers 60% of which live paycheck to paycheck.
We see increased exposure appearing as gaps appearing health care plans as employers settle kind of DC-type approaches.
I think health care is getting more standardized.
As the Federal Government defined health care more and more employers are picking standards of design.
So if you want to differentiate with a perspective and current employees on the benefits front increasingly it's our lines of business that are going to make a difference.
So I think those are long-term very positive trends.
And in fact we've been focused on consumer-driven benefits here for the last 4 5 years.
It enabled us to get ahead of the curve whether that's offering design or whether it's 40-plus technology partners that are now forming the backbones of private exchanges we feel like we've got a pretty good head start that as sort of the temporary distraction we'll work through that as the economy begins to pick up a bit.
I think that bodes quite well for us.
And if I could add I think we feel very good about the quality of our operating and our stickiness of the -- our offering in the marketplace.
We see repeatedly I think whether it's Mike's business Peter's business or Randy's business the things we really do are very competitive in the marketplace.
You see that with persistency.
You see that as Peter said with sales to knowing new customers.
The one thing we unfortunately can't address is the fact that some competitors are still willing to price business at substantially below their cost of capital and we've all talked about returns throughout the discussion today.
Our returns for our core businesses are in some cases 2x in some cases 3x times the industry average actually.
And we're not prepared to compromise those pieces.
So again the good news is I think our operating throughout all our businesses are very competitive.
But again as people compared to buy business I think you've seen us as a management team unwilling to do that.
And I think that's proven to be the right thing over the long term.
Well I think Tom that was the last question and I think let me just thank you all for taking the time to join us this morning and this completes the second quarter of 2013 earnings call.
Thank you very much.
And that does conclude our conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Unum Group Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you Jason.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the third quarter 2013 earnings conference call for Unum.
Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2012 and our subsequently filed Form 10-Q.
The SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website at unum.com.
I'll remind you that these statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found also on the website in the Investors section.
So participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen the President and CEO; Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; and Kevin McCarthy Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; as well as the CEOs of our business segments Mike Simonds for Unum US Peter O'donnell for Unum UK Randy Horn for Colonial Life and Jack McGarry for the Closed Block.
And now I will turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Tom? Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
The third quarter was another strong quarter for the company with growth in operating earnings per share of 6.3% to $0.85 per share and an increase of 10.4% in book value per share excluding AOCI to $31.63.
And let me touch on a few items before turning things over to Rick.
First I continue to be very pleased with the strength of our core business operating results.
Unum US had another very strong quarter overall with profit margins for this business segment continuing to improve as we stay focused on disciplined underwriting pricing and risk selection often at the expense of top line growth.
These strong results were driven in part by another quarter of solid risk results in our group disability line where the benefit ratio improved again to 82.9%.
Colonial Life's operating results remain strong as well with solid risk results and sound expense management driving another good quarter for this business.
Lastly while still below our long-term expectations Unum UK showed strong improvement over the third quarter of last year as the aggressive group life repricing and repositioning actions we began taking late last year have begun to have a favorable impact on our results for that line of business.
I continue to feel very good about the results of our core businesses where our disciplined approach to the business has resulted in consistently strong margins cash flow and operating return on equity which was 14.5% for the quarter.
Secondly our Closed Block segment was also in line with our expectations this quarter.
As we have said in the past this segment particularly the long-term care product line will continue to be an area of focus for us for some time to come.
I mentioned last quarter that we had taken steps to devote additional resources to this critically important area and I can see early signs of the benefits we'll derive from this increased management focus on this challenging line of business.
As Tom White mentioned Jack McGarry the CEO of this business is with us today on today's call and available for your questions.
Third while it continues to be a challenging environment to profitably grow our business in the U.S.
we saw improved sales trends this quarter within a number of important segments of our businesses.
Most notably LTD sales increased 9% in Unum US while core market sales in Unum US which includes our STD LTD and group life lines of business increased 2% and voluntary benefit sales in Unum US grew 6%.
We also saw sales in Colonial Life increase by 1% in the greater-than-50 life area of the marketplace.
As we've discussed last quarter the biggest challenge for Unum US and Colonial Life remains in the very small end of the market which we define as the less-than-50 life employer.
This market segment continues to be impacted by the soft pace of economic growth the political environment and distractions brought on by the implementation of health care reform.
While we believe these headwinds in the U.S.
are likely to continue we expect to continue to see pockets of growth and we remain committed to -- we remain committed to maintaining our disciplined approach to the market and not chasing business but instead protecting the strong margins and the returns we have worked so hard to build in our core business segments.
Rounding out my review of sales trends I'm also pleased that we're seeing somewhat better pricing trends in the U.K.
market where sales in local currency grew by just under 4% for the quarter.
Moving to investments I continue to be very pleased with our investment results including the credit quality of our portfolio.
Interest rates and investment yields remain a challenge but we continue to maintain our investment quality standards and remain focused on raising prices in those products that are most interest rate sensitive.
And finally our capital position remains very strong with our continued solid statutory results and cash flow providing us with significant financial flexibility financial flexibility which not only allows us to continue to repurchase stock but also as Rick will touch on further in a moment financial flexibility that also allows us to evaluate alternatives for moving our Bermuda-based insurance subsidiary to the U.S.
and still operate comfortably within the capital outlook we've given you last year.
We closed the third quarter with a risk-based capital ratio of 397% and a holding company liquidity position of $678 million both on the higher end of our target range for 2013.
So to summarize before we move to a more detailed discussion of the quarter we're pleased with the overall results we saw in the third quarter.
The current business environment presents top line growth challenges but I'm very encouraged by the growth we did see in certain of our markets.
Our risk results remain very strong and we're committed to maintaining our disciplined underwriting pricing and risk selection practices to protect the solid margins returns and cash flow that we have consistently produced in our core business lines.
I believe that this strategy along with our strong brand and market position continues to position us very well to both operate effectively in a still difficult environment while capitalizing on the long-term growth opportunities we continue to see in our marketplace.
Now I'll turn things over to Rick for a review of our operating results.
Rick? Great.
Thank you Tom.
As Tom mentioned in his comments for the third quarter we reported operating earnings per share of $0.85 an increase of 6.3% which brings our growth in operating EPS to 6% for the first 3 quarters of the year.
As a result of this we're refining our outlook for the full year to the higher end of the 0% to 6% range as we look to the fourth quarter.
Again in the third quarter across the company we continue to see positive trends.
Drilling in a little bit deeper to the results first on Unum US operating earnings increased year-over-year with favorable experience in the group disability and group life and AD&amp;D lines offsetting slightly lower earnings in the supplemental and voluntary lines.
Focusing first on our group disability business we continue to perform very well with the benefit ratio at a tick under 83% for the third quarter of 2013 which compares favorably to an almost 85% in the year-ago quarter and 84% in the second quarter of 2013.
The underlying experience continues to be strong with stable to lower overall claim incidents and continued strong claim recovery performance.
We didn't adjust discount rates as the interest reserve margins remains comfortably above our target range and consistent with the margin in the year ago quarter.
The profitability of this business also continues to benefit from the pricing discipline we show on new sales and renewals.
We are very pleased with the performance of this business and the strong return it continues to produce.
Group life and AD&amp;D also produced good results for the quarter with operating income increasing by 4.3% to $58.5 million.
The benefit ratio was steady in the quarter at 71.5% reflecting favorable underlying risk experience.
And finally in Unum US the supplemental and voluntary line reported operating income of $82.7 million for the quarter down from the $85.7 million in the year-ago quarter.
The benefit ratios for the primary lines of business were slightly higher from the year-ago results but very much within our expectations as the underlying risk results remain generally stable.
Persistency trends also tracked with our expectations in the third quarter.
Moving to Unum UK.
Operating earnings were GBP 20.1 million for the third quarter improved from the year-ago quarter which was GBP 17.3 million but off slightly from the second quarter of GBP 21.8 million.
We're pleased with the overall progress we're seeing in our U.K.
business particularly with the repricing and repositioning of the group life block of business.
In addition the underlying claim experience for the group life business improved in the quarter.
We did have softer sequential results in the group disability product in the quarter.
However this is not too surprising given that historically we are subject to seasonal volatility with disability claims in the quarter.
Overall for the U.K.
this quarter's results are within our anticipated range and we continue to make solid progress on restoring the high-margin expectations we have for this business.
Colonial Life continues to produce solid steady results with operating income at $69 million for the third quarter.
The benefit ratio is slightly higher at 53% for the quarter as we experienced slightly unfavorable risk experience in life product line and the accident sickness and disability product line which offset improved claim experience in the cancer and critical illness product lines.
Overall the underlying profitability of this business remains strong.
And finally the Closed Block generated operating income in the third quarter of $25.7 million consistent with the year-ago quarter.
The slight improvement in the interest adjusted loss ratio is attributable to a lower average claim size in the individual disability line and more favorable development in the active life reserves in the LTC line.
In addition the Closed Block is slightly less than for our miscellaneous net investment income in the third quarter relative to both the second quarter and the year-ago quarter.
Overall the results of the Closed Block this quarter are also in line with our expectations.
Wrapping up the earnings picture I would quickly highlight an item related to our tax rate.
There was an income tax rate reduction in the U.K.
enacted in July and we adjusted deferred tax assets and liabilities through income on the date of enactment of that change.
For the third quarter of 2013 this resulted in a $6.3 million tax benefit.
This lowered our effective tax rate by about 2 percentage points.
You'll recall that in the year-ago third quarter a similar U.K.
income tax rate reduction was enacted which resulted in a $9.3 million benefit.
Now let me turn to our -- move to our discussion of our sales and growth trends.
We saw some challenges in the first half of 2013 for new sales driven in large part by the pace of economic growth the political environment and disruptions in certain sectors of our markets from health care reform implementation.
However we did see good progress in the third quarter.
In Unum US as Tom highlighted in his introductory comments we saw improved sales trends in the core employee benefits markets and involuntary benefits.
That combination of businesses the focus areas of growth for Unum US produced sales growth of 4% in the third quarter following a decline of almost 18% in the second quarter.
Persistency trends in our Unum US lines remain in line with our expectation helping to produce positive premium growth for Unum US in total.
I would add that we continue to see little benefit to premium income from the overall economy and employment trends on our business.
In the U.K.
sales are up by 3.7% this quarter in local currency.
Disability sales in the core market showed an increase year-over-year while sales in the group life market increased due to higher enrollments on existing cases.
In short we are very pleased with the underlying quality of these sales.
Persistency in the U.K.
continues to be impacted by the pricing actions we are taking particularly in the group life line where the lapse of an unprofitable large case during the quarter helped contribute to a reduction in persistency to 65%.
These are all driven by the actions that we put in place to improve the profitability of the book and is trending as we expected.
Persistency in the disability line remains relatively stable at 82%.
Finally at Colonial Life we saw aggregate sales down 3% but premium income grew 3.2% for the quarter and 3.5% for the first 9 months of the year.
The decline in sales is primarily attributable to the ongoing slowdown in activity in the small end of the market.
This is particularly true in the less-than-50 lives market where the most disruption seems to be going on from the implementation of health care reform.
In fact we're seeing new account activity down by as much as 28%.
Despite this trend we did see better sales results in other parts of Colonial Life's markets with large case sales which we define as greater than 1 000 lives up by 17% and public sector sales up by about 2%.
In general we're seeing continuation of the same trend of fairly stagnant new account growth offset by better sales activity with existing customers.
Persistency remained steady with last year's levels.
Quickly moving on to the investment portfolio.
The credit quality of our portfolio remains in excellent shape and the watch list of potential problems remains quite low.
Treasury yield and corporate bond spreads were more favorable during the early part of the quarter and since our investment team was more active putting money to work in the early part of the quarter we were able to achieve higher new money yields for the third quarter than the yields we realized in the first half of the year.
Fortunately by the time those higher rates reverse themselves in the final weeks of the quarter we had put most of our cash to work.
In addition during the early weeks of the third quarter we sold approximately $400 million of our lower coupon corporate bonds and in a tactical trade reinvested into higher-yielding mortgage-backed securities and corporate securities to take advantage of the move-up in interest rates at that time.
This activity resulted in the net realized investment loss which came solely from interest rates and not credit.
The trade enabled us to slightly enhance the investment yield while improving the credit quality of the portfolio.
Moving to an update on capital management.
We continue to see very positive trends which produce a strong overall capital position.
Statutory net income remains healthy at $153 million for the third quarter and $500 million for the first 9 months of the year.
The weighted average risk-based capital ratio for our traditional U.S.
life insurance companies was approximately 397% at the upper end of our target 2013 range of 375% to 400%.
Holding company cash and marketable securities was also up totaling $678 million at quarter end.
I would also note that during the quarter we entered into a 5-year credit facility of $400 million further solidifying our capital structure.
Share repurchase activity totaled $75 million in the quarter which brings the total on a year-to-date tally up to $269 million or 3.6% of our outstanding shares.
As we approach year end we're evaluating various options for our Bermuda-based insurance subsidiary.
As a reminder we've had the Bermuda entity since 1996.
In this entity we reinsured certain long-term disability and long-term care blocks.
As we look at it today it does not provide the benefit worthy of its structure.
Therefore we have a goal of moving the business onshore under a domestic regulator in a subsidiary with a financial profile consistent with our traditional U.S.
insurance companies.
I would stress that the move will not have an impact on our consolidated GAAP fourth quarter earnings.
We expect to keep our year-end capital metrics within the target levels we have previously communicated.
That is RBC in the 375% to 400% target range and holding company liquidity in the target range of $500 million to $800 million.
I would also stress that this move will not preclude us from repurchasing shares in the fourth quarter.
Right now we're pushing to complete our work before year end and we'll update you with our progress at our Investor Meeting that we have scheduled for December 16 in New York.
We look forward to taking you through this as well as our outlook for 2014 at that event.
And now I'll turn my comments back to Tom for his closing comments.
Tom? Thanks Rick.
Before we move to your questions I'll close by reiterating how pleased we are with our operating results for the third quarter.
We continue to generate solid profitability and returns by focusing on the basics disciplined pricing underwriting and expense management along with the sound risk management and managing our investments and capital.
That focus on the basics will not change.
This completes our prepared remarks.
And operator let's move to the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-up questions.
So the move for the Bermuda operation back onshore how much capital do you feel that will deploy in the course of doing that? Certainly Jay.
This is Rick McKenney.
Just let me answer a couple of things.
One is we're still working through the details.
So we brought that out to you today.
We do expect to have more details around that by Investor Day but we're still working through the structure.
What I would -- how I would highlight that is actually we're going to be within the ranges of capital that we -- our outlook that we really put out to you over the course of this year.
So we feel good about that and now we take it out.
And as I mentioned in my notes we'll also have the ability to buy stock in the quarter and get to those levels.
So I think this is going to be a good move for us and we'll give you more details as we get to Investor Day and the structure solidifies.
Research Division</strong> On that topic of buybacks it's been running $100 million a quarter in the first half down to $75 million in 3Q.
Just trying to get a sense of what a decent run rate is on maybe a quarterly or annual basis absent that shift? Go ahead Rick.
Let me take you through how we're thinking about our capital.
First I'd start out with saying our capital generation this year has been excellent.
We mentioned even through 3 quarters $500 million of statutory earnings which is better than I think we've anticipated certainly better than our run rate that we've had.
As we've talked about before we think about capital deployment in many ways in terms of what are the best uses of our capital as we take that out.
Now we've certainly have done it through share repurchase and that is an important piece of how we deploy capital.
But I'll also take you to other things that we've done in the course of the year retiring debt in the first quarter solidifying our pension position in the second quarter and now we're talking about redomesticating our Bermuda business which as I've just mentioned in my last comments we'll adjust some of that capital that we take in.
But we think those are all good uses and certainly we'll continue to do that.
Specific to share repurchase I think that as we mentioned in our comments last quarter there are a lot of factors that are going into how much stock we will buy in a given quarter when we will do that in the quarter and how we'll go through it.
So I think that those still hold but I'd take you back to how much capital we're generating and we certainly will put that capital to work on an active basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally on the strong recovery in group LTD sales in the U.S.
what's changed relative to the prior 2 quarters? I know a significant focus by some benefit managers at large corporates on the looming Affordable Care Act implementation had been a drag in the first half.
Did that ease off in 3Q? I'm trying to get a better sense of what changed.
Yes Jay.
I'll let Mike Simonds speak to that.
Mike? Yes thanks.
Jay I'd say the headwinds that we've been feeling through the first half of the year are definitely still out there in the market when it comes to health care reform.
That being said we did see that abate just a bit as a number of health care decisions particularly for large employees get made around midyear and so they can now turn their attention a bit to some of our lines of business.
So we were encouraged to see the increase in disability.
We're encouraged to see the increase as Tom mentioned in our core and in our voluntary benefits sales.
But we're still cautious around the outlook given that employers still have a great deal to work through particularly in the small end of the market.
And with fewer prospects out there fewer employers looking to make changes we continue to see a pretty aggressive pricing environment as carriers are looking to meet sales goals with fewer prospects available.
And if I can add to Mike's comments too I think he said it well.
I think the big challenge for us is still in the small end of the marketplace.
And so I'm not sure we saw a real swing in sentiment over the course of the last quarter.
We're still cautious as we look forward and that obviously affects both the sales activity within Unum US but also in Colonial as well.
But again there were some encouraging signs.
But as you see we're not going to deviate from that more disciplined approach.
If the business is there to be done at a profitable level we'll certainly be getting more than our fair share.
But if not we'll sit on the sidelines.
But I don't think there's been a real fundamental shift in the quarter especially amongst that small employer piece which is affecting both Unum US and Colonial.
And we'll take our next question from Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up on the Bermuda captive.
And I guess how are you thinking about kind of the long-term care statutory reserves? And am I correct that as part of the redomiciling process you might have an opportunity to increase those reserves? Rick? Yes.
The way I'd answer that for you Erik is that when we bring it back onshore we are expecting that we will have a company and a business that is actually similar in its reserving and capital processes that we have in the U.S.
So that is a key part of that and we'll take you through the details on that.
But it will look very similar to our other practices we have for other U.S.
businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would that be a higher level of reserves than today on a statutory basis? I think Erik that gets you to some of the discussion around capital we just said.
So we're going to have to bring you those details to you on Investor Day but I think that those will all be coming to play in terms of how we look at what reserving levels look like as well as what capital levels look like.
But we'll give you more of those details at Investor Day and quite frankly when we're done with the process which we aren't not done yet.
And Rick if I can answer that again this is -- I think that you said this before but this our decision to do this.
This doesn't have to be done.
But as we just look at just our own capital structure the quality of our capital looked at obviously some of the themes that are happening in our industry we just think this is the right time to entertain this.
And fortunately we have the financial flexibility to do so.
And I think you just said Rick when the dust settles we'll have this back onshore at a level most likely with reserves and capital equivalent to the other parts of our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned the increased resources that you've allocated to the Closed Block.
Can you just talk a little bit more about -- specifically about what you're doing particularly for the long-term care block? Yes let me turn things to Jack.
But just to remind others what we did talk about last quarter was the fact that this closed block and especially the long-term care component of the block is going to be with us for many many many years to come.
And so this will be an ongoing focus that we're raising our focus frankly to be sure that we're managing that business for the long term.
And we appointed Jack to run that business and Jack has certainly added to its resources.
Maybe Jack maybe take people through a little bit some of the early things that you've been involved in.
Yes.
And the big piece of what we've done with the resources is we've really consolidated resources around long-term care.
We're running it as a strategic business unit.
So long-term care currently has basically all of the functions within it that affect its outcomes.
In addition we've significantly strengthened the actuarial resources that we're bringing to bear on long-term care.
As many of you may know I'm an actuary running the long-term care line.
We have selected some of our best actuaries in the company to come into the unit and work on reserving repricing and capital management.
We're underway.
It's going to be a process in terms of building the tools and doing the analysis but we feel like we're off to a great start.
And that really is the focus of the unit continue to do the operating things that continue to produce stable results but a big focus on reserving and financial modeling a big focus on rate increases and making sure that we get those in the best way possible and then the final focus on capital management.
Research Division</strong> And then just finally any updates in terms of how on kind of the repricing kind of the environment for getting rate increases through on long-term care? Yes.
In essence for the last couple of quarters I think we've been saying that we believe the environment is getting better for rate increases.
We've had great success with our last round of rate increases.
We are above kind of our planned level that we had built into our reserves.
Previously and one of the things that's happened actually is that there's been some movement at the NAIC particularly at states that have awarded rate increases understanding the inequity of them awarding rate increases where other states haven't.
And there's been -- begun to have some internal pressure among regulators to have a more consistent approach to rate increases and we think that's been a very positive development.
We're very optimistic about the next round of rate increases that we're working diligently to get out there that we will continue to have good success.
And we'll go next to Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-ups on UPIL.
Rick in your prepared comments you said that part of your decision to bring it onshore was that it was not producing the desired benefit that you were looking for when you originally set it up.
Can you just talk a little bit about what you had expected it to do and why it wasn't producing what you thought it would? Sure Suneet.
I'll take a shot at that.
I think that in my comments I also mentioned it was up in 1996.
So I don't have a good insight in terms of those details.
But when you look at it where it is today and the environment that we're in today there is benefit there in a sense but I think from the way we look at it as Tom mentioned the quality of capital the structure the simplicity of the structure of the company those benefits are outweighed by the simplicity that we can have by having it onshore whether it's similar reserving and capital process we have for the line.
So I think that's when we get to it.
It's not dollars and cents benefit.
I think it's much more about it had outlived its usefulness as a structure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess as we think about your capital generation model the slides that you typically show us excluded I believe UPIL because it was just the Unum US businesses.
So I'm assuming that once you bring it onshore we're going to have to roll in what is now UPIL into that capital generation model.
And I think on a year-to-date basis UPIL is losing maybe $30 million $40 million of statutory earnings.
So my question is am I right in terms of rolling it in? And how should we think about the impact on that capital generation going forward once it's brought onshore? Sure.
I think we're getting a little bit out there which is some of things we'll probably talk to you about at Investor Day.
But I think that when you think about the consolidation of it one the UPIL results have a lot of factors that go into it.
It is a reinsurance entity.
So there's a lot of timing differentials different treatments of how investment income capital gains and losses are treated.
So there's more noise in there than it would be actually onshore.
If you think about that loss I think you would be looking at $30 million relative to the overall capital generation which has been $500 million year to date it's somewhat immaterial.
So I probably won't focus on that too much.
But we'll give you better insight to that as we get to Investor Day.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question on this was I just want to follow up on Erik Bass's question because I think where he was going was to try to understand how this change might impact your prior discussion of statutory reserves on long-term care.
So If I go back to last quarter's call I think you had originally talked about sort of a 3- to 5-year time frame before you need to take a charge with a starting point of 2011.
I think you said with the improvement in rates maybe we're closer to the 4-year time frame.
So I guess my question following up on Erik's question was does this decision alter that guidance from a timing perspective or from a order of magnitude perspective? And I think you've talked about a $250 million after-tax kind of charge.
So I know you said this is your decision to do but how does that affect the prior guidance? Can we still rely on that? Or is that something we'll have to address? Yes certainly Suneet.
And let me clarify we've never talked about a $250 million charge related to anything and certainly aren't going to talk about that.
What you're talking about is GAAP concept so when you look at the reserves that we've talked about in the past and what we're evaluating is purely GAAP.
It's had 0 impact in terms of our GAAP processes.
This is purely a structure a capital structure a statutory structure that we're dealing with here.
So those 2 are not correlated things in terms of one impacting the other.
They're very different things.
And I said in my comments to be very clear this has no impact on U.S.
GAAP the structuring that we're doing here.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
All right I'll follow up.
I mean I thought that now that GAAP and stat LTC reserves were kind of the same number that changes in one would probably drive changes in the other.
And I guess that's -- what you're saying is it's not the case.
That's not the case.
I think the buildup on the reserve basis and how they move can be very different and have been very different.
And so I think that was more of a guidepost to say where they were as opposed to one change will drive another change.
That's not the case.
And we'll go next to Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe one other attempt at the Bermuda restructuring and then the capital deployment question.
So if I hear you correctly cash generation is tracking a little higher than you estimated at the beginning of the year and yet guidance for share deployment has come down a little bit.
So would it be fair to assume that that gap of call it maybe $150 million is roughly what you expect to invest in as you think of redomesticating that business unit or that subsidiary? Yes.
Well let me say I appreciate you trying to work backwards into details.
But until we actually get to the year end we still have more details to work through.
We'll give you a lot of those movements as we get there.
But when you think about capital generation and deployment I want to reiterate capital generation has been quite good and we've been very active deploying capital including I don't want to lose the fact we bought back $75 million in the quarter and I also mentioned in my comments we expect to probably buy back shares in the fourth quarter as well depending on all the factors including whereas we mentioned last quarter where the price is what's going on overall in the company we will buying back shares in the fourth quarter.
So when you get through all those different pieces we'll give you what we're doing as part of Bermuda structure and we'll also give you a view in terms of where we are from a capital deployment perspective both generation-wise and what we expect to put back through multiple channels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess I'll just have to be patient one more month.
And then if we switch over to sales for a minute if I understood the comment to Erik it was that there was some uptick in the focus for management teams on benefit purchasing in the second half of the year.
Do you think that's a temporary issue? Or maybe are we now past the most severe pressure period that we saw kind of in the first half of the year? Mike why don't you take one please? Yes sure happy to do it.
So I'd say we did see a little bit of that particularly in the over-50 life market where you think about employers having a few more resources to be able to sort through decisions on multiple fronts.
So we see that abate just a bit.
I do expect that with things like the employer mandate being pushed out a year that in the coming quarter and in actually frankly the next few quarters we'll continue to have to swim upstream a bit as employers and their broker advisors help them sort through their ultimate health care decisions.
That being said what I would say is what's coming out of those health care decisions continues to be a couple of important things for us one the employer remaining very engaged in the overall benefits process and the other being a constant push towards a more consumer-driven benefits with more employee engagement and that's the trend that we started to see 6 or 7 years ago that's been the basis of most of the investments we've made in our capabilities is this idea of choice products enrollment education and communication.
So even as I think we're going to continue to see some short-term headwinds it plays into a longer trend that I think we're very well positioned both actually the Unum and the Colonial Life brands here in the U.S.
And we'll go next to Mark Finkelstein with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Maybe one last crack at the Bermuda situation.
If I just look at it nothing economically is changing.
The risk is the same kind of how you have to fund it really doesn't change that much other than maybe just some cosmetic impacts of capital and reserving et cetera.
But just in that context should we be thinking about maybe some easing of kind of holding company cash positions or even RBC down the road? Or should we be thinking about historical levels of margins above margins that we've been talking about? Yes certainly.
I'd like to take that one on Mark in terms of how we're thinking about this longer term because I think that when you evaluate this structure and as we talk about simplification that we'll get is bringing this back onshore it does get better clarity in terms of the different pieces that we have out there the cash that we will hold at the holding company throw into that as well the credit facility that we just put on as well as our RBC levels.
So all those come into play.
And as we look forward and I think having that clarity and taking you through that is actually going to be helpful as we get out into 2014 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no real clarity at this stage on whether we can assume reductions or changes in how you've been thinking about it? No not even over the structure and I think that's more of an outlook-type conversation that we'll have in December.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
You should have some clarity I think on January 1 renewals.
So I'm just curious in the light of maybe the prior conversation about kind of how employers are looking at the situation are you seeing anything that fundamentally changes your outlook on what persistency is going to look like as you head into 2014? Mike I think it's directed to you.
Yes sure.
Thanks Mark.
We do have a pretty good line of sight particularly towards the larger end of the market where employers are making decisions with a bit more lead time for implementation.
And I think on balance actually feeling pretty good.
As you know we've been consistently over the last couple of years looking to modest rate increases in the 5 to 8 sort of mid- to high-single-digit ranges.
We're having good success with that placement.
Persistency is tracking well within our expectations going in.
So feel very good about that.
That's sort of the flip side of the malaise of health care reform is when employees are sorting through health care decisions it does add to the stickiness of existing programs so it helps facilitate I think a pretty successful renewal approach here.
Research Division</strong> So I guess just maybe pushing on that a little bit if I think about what this line might look like when we get to Q1 '14 earnings you've been kind of trending in the high 80s percentile.
Based on what you know today you're not seeing anything that would fundamentally alter that to the downside? In terms of persistency? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes but I think that's reasonable fit.
I mean there's still a lot of work to be done in our core markets that's a big business for us so we've got our heads down working closely with brokers and with clients.
Service levels are very strong for us right now that usually correlates pretty well with strong persistency.
So we're optimistic but also want to be clear that we've got real work to do in placing January renewals yet to go.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just one final quick question U.K.
persistency on group life kind of been 65%.
Looks like if I average the second quarter and the first quarter you're kind of a net level for the second quarter as well.
I know you're going through a pretty exhaustive group life repricing process.
Does that get better from here? How do we see that persistency level playing out? Because interestingly you actually had better sales in group life in the U.K.
as well.
Yes I was thinking of Peter.
Maybe you just step back a little bit too and just remind everyone what your renewal program and repricing program is what you're undertaking actually at this point.
And to Mark's last question to where you're seeing the sales before we get into the persistency.
Yes thanks Tom.
And so let's just take the sales first of all.
So just taking the group life sales it's actually come through to selling to -- basically expanding coverage with group life schemes.
So basically we've been [indiscernible] in keeping say the order enrollment which is a pension change in the U.K.
means that more people are taking up pensions.
We're seeing an uptick in group life sales off the back of that.
So pretty comfortable about the profitability of the new business arising on the group life schemes the new stuff coming in.
So which business does remain competitive? So we haven't been successful in the large case markets.
I think that's going to continue for a little while.
We're waiting for some of our competitors to digest that business.
And that indigestion problem perhaps that will come back at a more amenable economic return from our perspective but that will take a while to go through the system.
In terms of renewals thanks Tom what we're doing there is we're putting double-digit rate through the book.
And so that is either getting the rate through so we're repricing that to our appropriate hurdle returns or we are losing particularly at the large end some pretty large schemes.
Again to our view it's a pretty rational pricing in general that's taking us.
But our intention really is to come out of this with a smaller group life book but a more profitable group life book.
So that will be the intention.
I think the persistency you're seeing at the moment will continue this year and we'll see a bit of an uptick next year because we've got through more of the books.
So it's going to remain at lower ends of the long-term range through 2014 as well.
And we'll go next to Jimmy Bhullar at JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On the buybacks remember beginning of the year you had mentioned something around a $500 million number and you bought back a decent amount of stock but still lower than what you had expected at the beginning of the year.
So just wondering if you could talk about what's changed since then is it the higher stock price or is it other things that are dissuading you from buying back stock? Because your stat income's been fairly healthy.
And then secondly on U.K.
margins they've been pretty stable the last few quarters.
What the drive -- how much of that is just better pricing and loss trends versus the benefit of the reinsurance transaction? And also what your expectations are for renewing the reinsurance contract next year? Rick do you want to start with the stock repurchase? Yes certainly.
Let me give you a little bit of a different angle on it Jimmy too.
When you go back to the beginning of the year and you look at our capital generation model which has actually been intact for the last several years we talked about good steady capital generation and redeploying that in multiple means.
So it's putting it back into our business.
It's actually looking to acquire which we haven't talked too much about but that's certainly a place where we'd like to deploy capital raising our dividend which we've been doing very consistently and then share buyback.
We've talked about $500 million of capital generation.
And I think given other choices and particularly given where our stock price was going back even earlier in the year share repurchase was a perfectly sensical thing to do at quite good volumes.
As we've gotten through the year we've seen other opportunities to use that capital to be redeployed wisely whether that's retiring some of our debt whether that's solidifying the pension whether that's continuing to buy back shares.
So we say when we're dissuaded from capital I think we've just had other choices that we can choose to put that capital to work.
Good choices good for the overall company good for our balance sheet and we'll continue to do that.
So I think that share price played into that.
I think Tom talked about that last quarter pretty extensively but there are other uses of that capital that we certainly will put to work.
So we don't feel dissuaded about share repurchase.
I'd remind you $75 million that we bought back this quarter is 1% of our outstanding so they're meaningful numbers that we continue to buy and we'll always continue to do that in the future.
And Rick if I could add to what you just said I don't think any of our -- the way we think about the options that are available to us have changed at all actually.
Those are the same options that have been in place actually since we began the aggressive share buyback program 5 or 6 years ago over which time we've purchased over 25% of our shares.
So those options are the same.
It's always looking at relative value of each of those choices.
And as you can see we sort of rebalanced a little bit those priorities over the course of time just based on prices and other considerations.
But those options are still the same.
So no change there.
As Rick said we'll certainly provide a little more feedback on the upcoming investor meeting.
Jimmy as it relates to your U.K.
question Peter you want to touch on that in terms of just not the margins but a little bit of the recent experience and then how that affects both margins but also some of your thinking about reinsurance? Yes.
Thanks Tom.
Thanks Jimmy.
So in terms of the group life book we're getting through the renewal program.
So you are seeing the benefit of some of the repricing and some of the shedding of the less profitable schemes so definitely some of that coming through.
There are 2 aspects to the reinsurance.
One is the retention level which we brought down.
So any claim we brought down to taking it from GBP 1 million per claim to GBP 0.5 million.
That's been very helpful during quarter 3.
We saw a number of large claims come through which the reinsurer took their share of.
So that's helped manage the volatility and made the margins more stable.
There's also an element which is the quota share which is whilst we're repricing the book what we found in the marketplace the reinsurers were -- their appetite for this and what the returns they want to put on was competitive relative to what where we thought the book was priced.
As we took advantage out in 2013 we're currently going through the renewal program in 2014.
And looking at that I'd expect to retain a bit more but we'll probably sell some of the quota share in place for 2014 given what we're seeing on quotes at the moment.
And we'll take our next question from Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> While I understand your desire and you've made it clear that you're not going to get into the details of this movement of the Bermuda operation back to the United States one thing to me seems apparent and I just want to check whether you agree that this is apparent because Bermuda accounting is essentially the same as U.S.
GAAP accounting and because U.S.
GAAP accounting tends to be more generous aggressive than statutory accounting doesn't it stand to reason we don't need to get into any discussion I don't think that the statutory reserves that you will be establishing in the United States will be higher than the effectively GAAP reserves that you have established in Bermuda? And that rather than -- and that therefore there's going to be some sort of hit to your statutory capital in the United States on a sort of -- on an enterprise-wide basis? You will have less statutory capital and more reserves than would have been the case if you didn't make this move given the difference given the more conservative accounting in the United States than in Bermuda.
Isn't -- doesn't that stand to reason? Isn't that obvious? Right.
Yes Eric if I could -- I won't repeat everything you just said but I would say what you say very much holds true and I think that's why when we talk about the structure we say that we take you back to where we were in the ranges of our capital outlook.
But everything you say is true and logical and we'll take you through how that impacts us and the magnitude of those when we get there.
But I'll just take you back to the answer is that we'll be in line similar to our reserving and capital processes we have with other companies in the U.S.
and we will also be within the range of the capital outlook we put out there while still having the ability to buy stock.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
My second and final question is -- could be directed to Jack or whomever feels it's -- that it's appropriate for that person to answer it.
It has to do with long-term care.
Because Unum has stopped writing new business both on the group side and the individual side I would think that you would be disadvantaged vis-à-vis regulators in the sense that I would think regulators would say "Well these Unum guys they sold the business.
They did their best to get the pricing correct.
It's underpriced but it's not our problem." And you don't have a lot of leverage because you can't threaten to quit the business because you already have stopped writing new business.
Why isn't that the case? Why have you been -- I'm a little surprised to describe -- that you described your repricing results as excellent because again I would think regulators say "These are old people.
Unum made a mistake.
That's his problem not our problem." I would think that's how the discussion would go.
Why hasn't it gone like that? Jack? It hasn't gone like that because we actually have the results in our repricing efforts.
Again we're ahead of plan in our actual approval.
I think there's lots of reasons.
I think that the flip side of that is some regulators are saying look you can make it up on new business pricing but we're giving you the rate that you want on new business and are using that as an excuse not to approve rate increases on the old business.
So that goes in both directions.
We have not found that being in the closed block status has affected our ability to get rate increases.
I think regulators understand that if you are in a closed block status rate increases is your only option and they are aware of that and empathetic to it.
Conversely too Eric just from a company point of view I'd say Jack actually the fact that we don't have existing customers we're trying to sell business to or brokers we're trying to sell through actually makes it a lot cleaner as a decision actually as a company.
Because we actually don't -- we can actually be very specific to experience and allow the rates to just fall out of the experience as opposed to thinking about the fact that we're also trying to sell new business at the same time.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mostly asked and answered.
Just quickly maybe I missed this where is the company? Where is the U.K.
in terms of repricing the group life business? What percentage of the book has been repriced? Yes Peter do you want to just touch on that briefly? Yes.
So briefly we're about 3/4 of the way through.
So we'll be finished at about midway through 2014.
And we'll go next to Robert Glasspiegel with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
Your RBC ratio looks like it's projected to be about 12 bps below where it finished in the third quarter at year end if you take the middle of the range.
Does that factor in the Bermuda impact? Or are there some other moving parts and dividends that are driving that decline? Yes Bob just to give you a sense that range has been consistent all along so that doesn't give you a different view that we expect it to come down or move up.
And I take you back to the different structuring pieces we've been talking about a fair bit on the call in terms of there will be movement and changes relative to that but we expect to still be in that range on the overall.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just hammering Mark's.
Mark said he was the last question on Bermuda.
I guess I'm going to be the last question potentially.
The Bermuda transaction did that at all impact the buyback? You mentioned pension and bonds and stock price as [ph] other use.
Was that at all a factor in keeping a little bit more capital? I think when we look at it in terms of the very good capital generation we've had there's a use of capital that we've talked about with Bermuda without being too specific but I think that that's fair that that will be a use of our very good capital generation that we had this year and we'll get more specific in terms of what that looks like in December.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So on the margin it could have been a consideration of buyback? Yes.
No I think it's very much a consideration on buyback.
And we'll take our next question from Jeff Schuman with KBW Investment Research.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to go to the U.K.
first.
The business has been resized a bit.
Premiums local currency are down I think 18% year-to-date.
Is there any slight benefit in terms of being able to maybe execute a bit of capital in the U.K.
given that it's now smaller? Yes.
Rick do you want to touch on that? Yes.
Certainly Jeff.
When you look at the U.K.
that reduction in premium has been fairly from the quota share reinsurance that Peter mentioned in his comments so that's kind of a onetime transaction.
So we did it on a very short basis so it was actually out there over a year.
So it's something that -- we did free up capital as a result of that but we didn't repatriate that capital at the moment.
Our U.K.
business we don't talk often about the U.K.
capital generation.
It's been very consistent very steady very similar cash flow characteristics that we have in the U.S.
and they've been very consistent in their dividend payments that have been upstreamed.
We just didn't remove the excess capital that's created there because we wanted to have the flexibility to adjust that reinsurance structure at the end of this year and 2014.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And I know Glasspiegel declared an end to the Bermuda questions but I don't think I'm going to yield to his authority on that.
So I was wondering -- one sort of basic question.
If part of the goal here is simplification is one of the options to do -- maybe to do the ultimate simplification and just actually recapture the reinsurance? Or are there some basic reasons why you actually need to have another entity? Go Rick.
Yes Jeff it's a great question.
I think when we look at evaluating our Bermuda entity and it's one of the reasons we talk about this it's been a structure that's been in place for quite some time just a pure recapture is not a simple exercise to go through so it is an option out there.
It's not one that we preclude.
We still could get to that point in the future but I think that we won't be doing that as part of this step because of some of the complexities that are built into the structure.
But in the future that very much could be an option.
And I think the important part about that too is because it will be on a similar basis with our other U.S.
businesses that would be from a financial perspective basically a nonevent.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know this is a fairly basic question here.
Obviously you're looking at different options but is it reasonable for us to assume that many of these options might involve some third-party participation? Whether it's third-party reinsurance letters of credit third-party other financing is that a reasonable assumption? Rick? I think that I'd highlight it a little bit different.
Those are obviously options to us.
This will not look so much like structures you've seen around the industry so that have different letters of credit and financing.
It's going to look pretty basic like a captive reinsurance.
And quite honestly Bermuda today looks like a very basic reinsurance company.
So I don't think we'll look like many of the other structures that you've seen out there.
And we'll go next to Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Just following up on Jeff's question about why you aren't recapturing.
I think there's going to be continued noise around the use of cap.
There's just something on the Freakonomics blog yesterday about shadow insurance.
Is there anything changing your thinking about your use of the South Carolina and Vermont onshore captives? Rick? Yes well I'll start with our South Carolina captive which is our -- mainly our Tailwind reinsurance company.
We did buy in the bonds from that.
So from a structural perspective that is now a simplified reinsurance structure we have in South Carolina.
And then our Northwind transaction which sits out there is still performing very well and so we have no need to bring in the bonds that were issued on that in 2007.
I think it's something straightforward so no anticipation of changing that structure at all.
And then also from a reserving perspective that's reserved on a similar basis that we do in our all other U.S.
entities as well.
So I don't see much scrutiny there.
Okay.
And just one final question.
There were some high-profile player groups who put large groups of their employees on private exchanges run by insurance brokers.
I'm just wondering if you participated in that.
And if you plan on doing so Unum is not a household name among consumers.
I'm just wondering what your competitive advantage is on a private exchange.
Mike why don't you take that one from Sean.
Yes happy to.
We mentioned it earlier but exchange is very much a hot topic in the market.
We very much see them as the latest manifestation of a long-term trend towards more employee-driven benefit.
And so that really has been the thesis that our investments and capabilities have been based on.
And so to your specific question having made some pretty big investments in employee choice products and technology people and process to sort of facilitate empowering employees has put the Unum and the Colonial Life brands in a really good spot in the marketplace.
So as these private exchanges are coming on actually the demand for us to be involved has been pretty good pretty consistent.
It's resulted in us being connected into 40-plus different exchange mechanisms.
And I think also importantly it's allowed us to play in those -- on those exchanges where the employer remains very much involved.
So to your specific question where we've seen a lot of the activity on our front and in our product lines the employer wants to stay involved.
There is an element of funding that they're providing in many cases.
So that actually positions us pretty well given a very strong brand amongst the brokerage and employer client community.
And if I could Sean just to add a little to what Mike said.
I mean the themes that you're seeing today in terms of more focus on consumer as in giving people choices didn't just start today or just didn't start as part of the Affordable Care Act or exchanges or the government website.
This started a decade or so ago moving from a defined benefit to a defined contribution environment.
And frankly we've realigned our resources and investments very much to participate in that.
And if you look at our group business today the vast majority of our group sales actually have some level of employee contribution.
If you look at our voluntary benefit business which is both Mike's and Randy's voluntary benefit business the earned premium compound annual growth rate over the last 8 or 9 years is about 7%.
A lot of that growth is frankly coming by providing GAAP products.
Let's just use one example high deductible health plans I think has doubled between 2010 and 2013.
That's presented great opportunities for our group hospital indemnity products our accident products our critical illness products our medical bridge products.
Just as Mike said there's an awful lot there that we've already begun to see where there's a way to play very effectively there in that consumer theme.
And again you're right our name may not be as widely known as some brands but we're very effective in getting with the employers' cooperation in front of the right people with the right set of products and the benefit communication tools we have actually help accelerate that.
So as Mike said we feel pretty good about the outlook here.
And obviously the health care reform and exchanges and other things are going to be a topic that we're going to have to deal with here in the next -- probably next year or so but we're finding very effective pockets in there to grow and build with both of our 2 voluntary franchises.
We'll take our final question from Tom Gallagher from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a question back on to beat the dead horse on Bermuda.
How should I be thinking about what resources are available to you to fund it? And I realize you're not prepared to answer any questions to size it but I know you mentioned the credit facility a few times.
Is that something that might be used U.K.
capital? Or would it just be existing holdco cash current statutory surplus that would be used to fund that it and statutory surplus in the U.S.
that is? Rick? Yes Tom that's a fair question.
And I should highlight the credit facility that we're highlighting here has nothing to do with the Bermuda process.
We thought it was a good piece of structure to have in the company.
So it's something we haven't had for a couple of years as we sat with high cash balances.
But I wouldn't equate these 2 at all from that perspective.
My U.K.
comments around dividend there is just to remind people that it's a very very strong high-margin operating enterprise.
I'd take those 2 out of the discussion in terms of how we're looking at the process we're going through of making sure we're within the capital range of the outlook.
So I take it back 2 points which is holding company cash we're sitting on and then just statutory generation and capital that we have in our U.S.
entities.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the -- I guess that entity has lost a little bit of money for the last few quarters.
Is that -- when you recapture that would you expect the earnings pattern to change there? Or are you still going to be using in all likelihood modified GAAP accounting because it'll be in the captive structure? I'll try and answer that.
It's a similar flavor to an earlier question which is we have had some losses in that entity.
If you look back over many periods of time it's fluctuated a fair degree.
Our reinsurance structures can be more volatile just by the nature of how the reinsurance treaties work.
So I think that as we look forward that's going to be woven into our overall capital view.
And I think Tom you highlight a point which is important is as we've seen on this call the Bermuda entity has caused a lot of questions.
And quite honestly we don't need to be answering those questions because it is a small piece of our structure.
And then when we have it back onshore the similar level of reserving capital or other onshore entities we hope we won't be discussing those details in the future.
To that point I think Rick we want to get ahead of things.
This has obviously been a focus of the industry and others within the industry and will continue to be.
So I think by doing the steps and taking the actions that we I think begun to share with you today we're getting ahead of those sorts of things.
But do it from a position of strength because we do have the financial flexibility and we do have the sufficient cash flow and the cash generation that frankly allow us to be in this kind of position.
But I think as you just said Rick in your comments we can do all that and not do it outside of the range that we provided in terms of capital guidance nor actually affect our ability to buy back shares in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> No I applaud you guys for doing that too from a transparency standpoint.
And my last question just relatedly is so the entity that will then be filed going forward will we have full access? Will that be -- so that will be U.S.-domiciled entity that we can then have a full set of blue books that we can then evaluate? Yes.
Tom we haven't gotten to that point.
So we'll have to evaluate a lot of different things here as we get to year end and all the details of that which still have process steps to go through.
We'll take -- hopefully we'll have a better view of that at the Investor Day.
But there's still a lot of work to do between now and then for our team.
Thanks Tom.
And thanks all of you for taking the time to join us this morning and we look forward to seeing many of you at our investor meeting in New York on December 16 and this completes our third quarter earnings call.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Unum Group 2013 Fourth Quarter Earnings Results Conference.
Today's event is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I will turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Great.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call for Unum.
Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2012 and our subsequently filed Form 10-Q.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website at unum.com.
Also I'll remind you that statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found in our statistical supplement on our website also in the Investors section.
So participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen our President and CEO; and Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; as well as -- as well as the CEOs of our business segments Mike Simonds for Unum US.; Peter O'donnell for Unum UK; Randy Horn for Colonial Life; and Jack McGarry for the Closed Block.
And now I'll turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Tom? Thank you Tom and good morning everybody.
Let me start by saying that I'm very pleased with our fourth quarter results and the strong close that we have for the year.
Operating earnings per share which excludes investment gains and losses as well as certain pension and reserve adjustments increased 3.7% to $0.85 per share bringing full year operating earnings to $3.32 per share an increase of 5.4% for the year which is towards the upper end of both our plans and the outlook we had provided the Street at the start of the year.
Importantly too our book value per share excluding AOCI which I continue to believe is a strong measure of enterprise growth increased 9.4% year-over-year to $32.32 per share which is slightly above the 8.6% compound annual growth rate that we achieved in 2009.
Now let me touch on a few specific items before turning things over to Rick.
First we continued to generate strong results within our ongoing businesses Unum US Colonial and Unum UK.
Unum US had another strong quarter driven again by favorable risk results across all of our business lines.
For the fourth quarter and for the full year each of our Unum US business lines reported improved benefit ratios a result of our long-standing focus on disciplined underwriting pricing and risk selection sometimes at the expense of top line growth.
Colonial Life also delivered solid operating results with a stable -- with stable risk results and sound expense management driving another good quarter for this business.
And lastly Unum UK continued to show solid margin improvement driven in large part by our aggressive group wide repricing and repositioning actions.
Overall these ongoing business segments are generating consistent solid margins with an operating return on equity of 14.7% for the fourth quarter and 14.2% for the full year.
Secondly the results of our Closed Block remained steady and were in line with our expectations again this quarter.
The loss ratio in the long-term care line improved this quarter and we continue to make good progress in our ongoing repricing initiatives in this line.
There's still more work to be done but I am encouraged by the work that our new team has done to bring greater focus and attention to this business.
Third following on some improving sales trends that emerged from the third quarter we saw strong sales growth in both of our U.S.
operations in the fourth quarter.
In Unum US total sales increased by 5% with especially strong results in our small and midsize employer markets which are employers with under 2 000 employees.
Group sales in these segments grew by 9.4% over last year and our voluntary sales in these segments grew by 24%.
We also saw a strong improvement in sales at Colonial increasing 10.4% for the fourth quarter which is up substantially from the levels we are seeing earlier in the year.
We saw a generally good balance in our sales results but that -- led by strong results in the midsized segment of that market which are employers with 100 to 1 000 employees.
Our commercial sector sales at Colonial grew 12.3%.
We in the industry are still experiencing some challenges in the very small end of the market but even there there were signs of improvement in the quarter.
Lastly our Unum UK sales declined 9.4% in local currency this quarter.
Much of that decline though was attributable to tougher comparisons in the larger case market and our group life sales were even as you know raising prices.
Next moving to investments.
Our investment results continued to be strong particularly the credit quality of our portfolio.
Interest rates and investment yields remain a challenge with improving treasury yields in the fourth quarter mostly negated by tighter investments spreads.
We have continued to -- maintain our investment quality standards and are continuing to adjust our prices in those products that are most interest-rate sensitive.
And finally we closed the year on a very strong capital position.
We estimate that our RBC ratio finished 2013 just above 400% and our holding company liquidity position finished the year at $514 million both well within or exceeding the outlook we provided for the year.
I might add that these year end capital levels incorporate the completion of the redomestication of our Bermuda-based captive which was not contemplated when we initially provided our 2013 outlook in December 2012.
Even with this we have retained significant financial flexibility and in the quarter repurchased $50 million of stock bringing our total for the year to $319 million and Rick will have more on this in just a few moments.
So to summarize we are pleased with the overall results we saw in the fourth quarter and for the full year of 2013.
As I discussed at our outlook meeting in December we believe that we are in good businesses and markets and we are well positioned to continue to deliver solid results in our ongoing businesses in 2014.
We are also -- we also remain intensely focused on actively managing our Closed Block segment both the operations and capital investment in this business.
And our solid financial foundation continues to give us significant financial flexibility to invest in our businesses and return capital to our shareholders all of which I'm confident will continue to allow us to create value.
Now I'll turn things over to Rick for a review of our operating results.
Rick? Great.
Thank you Tom.
As Tom mentioned in his comments for the fourth quarter we reported operating earnings per share of $0.85 which is up 3.7% from last year.
This brings our growth in operating EPS for the full year to 5.5%.
It's a good conclusion to the year where we expected 0% to 6% going into it.
Looking first at Unum US operating earnings increased year-over-year driven by good experience in the group life and the AD&amp;D line and the supplemental and voluntary lines.
Group life and AD&amp;D produced very good results this quarter with operating income increasing by 13% to $62 million.
The benefit ratio was improved in the quarter at 70% reflecting favorable underlying experience.
Also the supplemental and voluntary line reported operating income of $85.8 million for the quarter up from $83.6 million in the year-ago quarter.
Here too the benefit ratios for the primary lines of business were also slightly improved from the year-ago results due to more favorable risk experience.
Turning to our group disability business we did see lower operating earnings but this was driven primarily by a reduced level of miscellaneous investment income which was about $7 million lower year-over-year.
The item to focus on is that the risk results in group disability remains quite strong but the benefit ratio declined to 83.2% this quarter from 84.5% a year ago as the underlying experience showed stable to lower overall claim incidents and continued favorable claim recovery performance.
This has been a positive trend we have seen over several quarters.
Overall it was a good quarter for the Unum US segment overall with operating ROE for the segment at 13.7% and good momentum going into 2014.
Moving to Unum UK.
Operating earnings were GBP 22.2 million for the fourth quarter improved from both the year-ago quarter which was GBP 21.8 million and up from the third quarter which was GBP 20.1 million.
We continue to be pleased with the progress we are seeing with our UK business particularly with the repricing and repositioning of the group life business.
The operating ROE for the U.K.
has improved to 14% for the full year 2013.
We still see room for improvement and we are encouraged by the direction of this business.
In the fourth quarter the Unum UK benefit ratio improved to 73% from 76% in the year-ago quarter.
The improvement was largely driven by improved performance and margins in our group life line of business.
Risk experience was slightly weaker in our group disability line reflecting slightly higher claim incidents.
But overall I'm pleased with the momentum we're seeing as we go into 2014.
Colonial Life continues to produce solid steady results with operating income at $69.4 million for the fourth quarter.
The benefit ratio was stable at 52.4% for the quarter as we experienced favorable risk results in the life product line which offset some volatility in the cancer and critical illness and accident sickness and disability product lines.
Overall the underlying profitability of this business continues to be excellent with an operating ROE for the full year of 16.5%.
And finally the Closed Block generated operating income in the fourth quarter of $26.8 million consistent with our expectations for the segment.
The improvement in the interest-adjusted benefit ratio for the LTC line was primarily driven by a lower level of new claim incidents.
The increase in the interest-adjusted benefit ratio for the Closed disability block was largely attributable to a slight reduction in the claim reserve discount rate which did not impact the bottom line.
I'd like to now move into a discussion of our sales and growth trends.
The positive sales momentum that we began to see in the third quarter following the sluggish first half continued into the fourth quarter.
We were quite pleased with the sales results we saw in the quarter in our U.S.
operations.
Beginning with Unum US total sales increased by 5% in the quarter.
The challenges we experienced earlier in the year from the political environment and disruption in certain sectors from health care reform implementation seem to be lessening but are still having some impact in the very small end of the market.
Persistency for our primary U.S.
business lines remain well within our expectations but did decline slightly year-over-year.
Overall premium growth for Unum US was up 1.4% for the full year.
And similarly our 2014 outlook calls for premium growth for Unum US in the 0% to 2% range.
In the U.K.
sales were down 9% this quarter in local currency.
Persistency in the disability line remained relatively stable at approximately 82% for 2013.
However persistency in the UK group life line continued to reflect the pricing actions that we're implementing.
And what we have seen is that the lapses are skewed to more poorly performing cases.
Also taking into account the group life reinsurance implemented at the beginning of 2013 our UK premium income was down 19% for the full year.
Our outlook for 2014 is for premium growth of 0% to 2% with some improvement in persistency in the group life business and overall sales growth for Unum UK in the 4% to 7% range.
Finally at Colonial Life we saw a very strong sales for the quarter an increase of 10.4% which brought the full year sales growth to 1.6%.
Persistency declined slightly for our major business lines but premium income increased by 3.2% for the full year.
Our outlook for premium growth and for Colonial Life in 2014 calls for growth to again be in the 2% to 4% range.
Having covered our operating trends I'd like to now review the 2 reserve adjustments we reported in the fourth quarter beginning with the reserve increase for unclaimed death benefits.
You've probably seen over the last several years discussion with regards to the use of the Social Security Death Master File and how insurers are using it.
During 2012 and 2013 we began proactively addressing the use of the Death Master File to identify life insurance claims for death within the current year so that we can identify and pay owners of unclaimed life insurance proceeds.
In 2013 we also looked at using the Death Master File to search for our potential claims from previous years.
During the fourth quarter of 2013 we completed our assessment of benefits which we estimate will be paid under this initiative and established additional reserves of $95.5 million for the payment of these benefits.
Our earnings release details the allocation of these reserves by our various life insurance business lines with Unum US and Colonial Life.
The second reserve adjustment is a reduction of reserves related to the group life waiver of premium benefit.
Again for some background within our Unum US segment we offer group life insurance coverage which often includes provision for waiver of premium if one becomes disabled.
The group life waiver premium benefit provides for continuation of life insurance coverage when an insurer is no longer paying premium because the employee is not actively at work due to disability.
Our emerging experience and that which continues to emerge within the industry indicate an increase in life expectancies and at the same time reflects an improvement in claim recovery rates which also lessen the likelihood of payment of a death benefit while the insurer is disabled.
During the fourth quarter of 2013 we completed a review of our assumptions and modified our mortality and claim recovery assumptions which resulted in a reduction of claim reserves of $85 million.
Touching now on the investment portfolio.
The credit quality of our portfolio remains in excellent shape and the watch list of potential problems continues to be quite low.
In the fourth quarter we saw treasury rates rise however that was largely negated by a continuing tightening of corporate credit spreads.
So all in all it continues to be a difficult investing environment certainly better than this time last year but we expect to see continued gradual pressure on our portfolio yields.
As we have said before we're not stretching our quality standards to reach for yields but are working on careful asset selection while adjusting pricing on our liability to reflect the current environment.
Moving on to an update on capital management.
Our statutory operating results continued to be strong.
This quarter was impacted by the unclaimed death benefit reserve adjustment.
But for 2013 after-tax operating earnings as of this item for our traditional U.S.
subsidiaries was $680 million consistent with our capital generation model.
The underlying trend of solid statutory operating earnings remains very much intact.
The weighted average risk-based capital ratio for our traditional U.S.
life insurance companies was estimated at 405% above the upper end of our target range of 375% to 400%.
And holding company cash and marketable securities was $514 million at year end.
2013 was an active year on the capital deployment front.
We bought back $319 million of stock including $50 million in the fourth quarter and raised the dividend by 12%.
We also did some things that position us well for the future.
This would include freezing the qualified pension plan which is now in an overfunded position and the redomestication of our Bermuda sub back to a U.S.
domiciliary.
This was all done while meeting or beating our capital targets we laid out at the beginning of the year.
And finally our 2014 outlook for growth in operating earnings per share is a range of 5% to 10%.
No change from our outlook meeting back in December and many of the results of the quarter reaffirm these views.
Now I'll turn the call back to Tom for his closing comments.
Tom? Thanks Rick.
Before we move to your questions I'll close by reiterating how pleased we are with our operating results for the fourth quarter and full year 2013.
We have good momentum going into 2014 with our ongoing focus on continuing to profitably grow our business through disciplined pricing underwriting and expense management along with equivalent to maintaining sound risk management and managing our investments and capital; capital that we will continue to use wisely to support our business and return to our shareholders.
Now this completes our prepared remarks.
And operator let's please move to the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to Mark Hughes of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update on your exchange strategy how many exchanges you may be on and then maybe some discussion about how many other providers you might be competing with how your pricing strategy how you're approaching this distribution.
Be happy to Mark.
Maybe I'll ask Mike to sort of lead that discussion.
But certainly obviously Colonial is also part of that too because both businesses are certainly are connected to that whole developing area.
But Mike? Thanks Tom.
Activity and interest in the private exchange market which I assume you're referring to continues to increase.
But I'd have to say that actual volume of business that's coming through still remains relatively small to date.
And the last -- so I think about it as regardless of the pace for the absolute level of adoption that it ends up occurring with our product line on private exchanges actually we feel pretty well positioned for a couple of reasons.
The first is we've got about 40 plus connections into the benefit administration and enrollment technology platforms that are now forming the basis for the majority of private exchanges.
So having put those in place over the last 3 or 4 years we've actually gotten a good head start.
So to your specific question there's probably about 0.5 dozen to 1 dozen exchanges that we're either on or in the process of getting on.
A couple of important points.
First in each of those cases the employer remains heavily involved in selecting the carrier and the types of benefit choices they're making available to their employees.
That's important to us.
And then second and to your question the product forms and pricing parameters that we're using actually look very similar to what we've got through more standard channels.
So we feel good about our ability to manage that risk on a go-forward basis.
Randy would you like to add anything further to that? Because again I know we're working -- both businesses are working closely on strategy and implementation.
Yes sure Tom.
We -- first of all I want to emphasize we are looking at this from an enterprise perspective.
So my team is working very closely with Mike's on this in terms of looking at potential partners.
A lot of activity as Mike said out there but we are collectively being very selective very strategic and looking at exchange partnerships.
We have somewhere in 0.5 dozen to 1 dozen range actively underway right now.
But again it has to align strategically with our distribution and service strategies.
I want to emphasize also as Mike said that we are staying very connected to the employer.
And the employer's going to be making the selection of carriers and coverages.
So again a lot of activity.
We think flexibility is the key.
But we feel like we're well positioned in that area going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then a quick follow-up Randy.
On the Colonial commercial a nice increase.
Why is that looking so much more active lately? Well I think it really is kind of a process Mark where we've been building momentum throughout the year so really saw some good results in that 50 lives up to 1 000 lives segment in the third quarter.
So really it's just getting good results from the work we've been doing all year.
Our field force is very active.
I think things are loosening up a little bit at this point.
In terms of the Affordable Care Act and implementation there still some pressure in the very small end of the market under 50 lives.
But again we're seeing things open up a lot of interest in voluntary benefits.
And I think a general awareness that voluntary benefits fit very well into longer-term benefit strategies.
We'll go next to Jimmy Bhullar of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First on just your comfort with long-term care reserves obviously you took the charge a few years ago in fourth quarter of '11.
And at the time I think you'd assumed that rates would be stable for about 3 years or so and then begin to go higher but in fact they haven't.
So maybe talk about how you think about your long-term care reserves if rates are close to these levels around at year end this year.
And secondly on persistency in most business lines declined.
I'm wondering whether that's because of price hikes you're trying to implement? Or is it just that activity is picking up and more business is being put to bed overall in the market? Rick do you want to pick up on the long-term care piece first? Sure happy to do that Jimmy.
I think when you look at -- one we're just coming out of year end in terms of looking at the overall reserves and so I think that's a marker we'd put out there.
We talked oftentimes about interest rates and how we're managing through that across all of our business lines including long-term care.
There is pressure in that line.
And if I took you back to 2011 when we first made those comments around interest rates we talked about the horizon we'd have and the pressures we've seen out there.
I think today we've actually done probably better than we anticipated at that time but those pressures are out there and real.
And I think that what you see in the market today is reflective of that.
But I'll also tell you that I think when you look at long-term care reserves and as we look forward there are multiple aspects that we need to look at in that product line both on some of the things that might be pressures.
And you mentioned interest rates as well as the things that we're doing from an operational perspective to actually mitigate that.
And the biggest thing there is is price increases.
Jack you want to make any comments around the operations in LTC and what we're accomplishing there? Yes so we continue to focus on the operations.
We've actually strengthened the claims management process in long-term care had a very successful year which you saw are in kind of the steady loss ratio for the year.
In addition we've had great success on rate increase strategies.
We're ahead of the goals we set for ourselves in the QTD when we set it up in particular that strong results on the group long-term care side which is important because those premiums go on for a lot longer.
And so getting an increase on the group side actually worked more to us over the long haul than getting individual.
So we've made progress on the operational fronts and we're continuing to make progress.
We'll be filing additional rate increases both on the individual side as well as the group side and are optimistic about our chances of continued growth there.
And Jimmy on your persistency question frankly the answer differs a little bit by business and by product within business.
Maybe what we'll do is just go around the horn a little bit and each ask -- each business had to speak to it.
But Mike you want to talk at first on the persistency trends in the quarter? Absolutely.
So we saw persistencies in the high 8s which in an absolute sense actually we're pretty comfortable with.
It did come down 1 point or 2 depending on the product line for Unum US from a 90% plus level.
I'd say that was abnormally high.
And it's a little bit the same -- different sides of the same cords -- coin where we saw a slow -- sales slowdown in the market that hurt us a bit early in the year from a sales point of view.
But it helped us from a persistency point of view as business was moving less frequently played to our advantage in the renewal program.
But if we look at it persistency in the high 8s to us feels very good.
As we look at our renewal inventory headed into next year we feel good about maintaining to slightly improving that level.
And I think maybe the last point is importantly the business that is coming off the books is at substantially lower margins in the business that we're retaining.
So in aggregate we feel pretty good about it.
And maybe Randy just to pick up on the persistency trends in your business.
Yes okay.
We're continuing to see generally very stable persistency in all of our product segments.
It's kind of staying in that high 70s 79% plus to 80% range ticked down just a little bit in the fourth quarter but nothing we're concerned about.
Again very stable by each product segment.
And I think lastly Peter I think you have probably the most do with some repricing actions.
And maybe just speak a little bit of how that's affected some of your persistency especially in group life.
Thanks very much Tom.
Yes I would sort of put the persistency into 2 different categories.
So I think on income protection our persistency was bang in line actually a little bit better than we expected.
We got the rate we wanted.
We got the persistency we wanted and that's gone pretty much almost spot on to plan.
On group life it's a different story.
We had more to do on the discipline we had to apply there.
What we've done is actually we've outperformed on rates so we've done better than expected on rates.
But our persistency hasn't quite made where we wanted it to get it to.
But we have lost the schemes that were most poorly performing and the competition has picked those up pick up at the rates that they were going in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> And the U.K.
book about 2/3 is repriced as of right now? I would say that's about right.
I would say the income protection book is pretty much there.
The group life book is about 2/3 priced.
We'll go next to Erik Bass of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the competitive environment for voluntary benefits particularly as more insurers are focused on the voluntary opportunity and are introducing new products? Do that actually again -- maybe lead us off actually Randy as it relates to the things you're seeing your marketplace.
And Mike if could pick up a little bit what we're seeing in the Unum US marketplace.
Sure.
Good morning Erik.
Very dynamic marketplace without question.
There is a lot of competition a lot of new entrants into the voluntary space.
But that just tells us it's important to stay more focused than ever which we're doing on our core segments.
And we just keep introducing the right types of product updates and new product introductions.
Our pricing stays very stable.
We're not changing that to try to meet competition or buy share.
I want to assure you of that.
So again very very dynamic market a lot of competitive intensity.
But still a lot of opportunity especially in that smaller end of the market and not nearly as much competition there.
So outlook in general is very positive again due to growth in the overall voluntary space and we like our chances in our target segments.
Mike? I would echo Randy's comments and you'll see that reflected in the numbers.
So in the core market for us we saw voluntary benefits sales up over 20% in the quarter.
I think importantly for Unum US we're seeing 33% to 40% depending on the size segment of all our new voluntary customers coming in on top of an existing or new group insurance client relationships.
So we feel like that's a unique position that we've got on the -- got in the market and it's helping us with what Randy said is an increasingly competitive market.
We do feel though that the outlook is good.
And as health continues to change and deductibles continue to go up that creates the need and the demand for a number of these voluntary products which is a trend that I think is here for the long term.
And Erik if I can just add one little piece to this as you know we certainly like everybody we worry about competition coming into marketplaces and certainly we do have some very strong competitors in our market today and certainly new entrants into our market.
I'll just remind you we made a commitment to really accelerate our development of this business 5 or 6 years ago and put significant resources into everything from product to distribution to communication tools that I think you're beginning -- you're seeing some of the benefit of that now.
So again not that we don't want to ignore the focus of increased potential in this segment but we've also been at this for a while too.
And we -- as I said we built some pretty good infrastructure and capabilities in both Unum US and in Colonial.
And yes the reason we chose to focus more energy here back 5 or 6 years ago is we saw the movement from a defined benefit to a defined contribution world which has very much has played itself out and so a lot of our focus has been around a theme which has really played itself out and I think it plays to the strength of this company.
Research Division</strong> And I guess to follow up on that last point.
As you're seeing more plan sponsors shift to a defined contribution model offering benefits how does that affect how Unum has to think about both winning employer benefits contracts but also marketing its products to consumers? Mike why don't you take that up? Because again we spend a lot of time thinking about that.
The focus throughout the company is because of what you just said and we believe strongly that that is the case.
That needs to be a much greater focus on understanding consumer and consumer tendencies both buying and why they don't buy actually.
And so we're playing that out in both of our U.S.
businesses.
And Mike you want to speak a little bit to that.
Yes the 2 points I'd make are it actually calls for more active engagement with employers.
So when you have a simple DB or employer-funded plan it can be of more of a transactional business particularly in the core.
As you move to defined contribution you involve the employee.
It means you've got to have stronger relationships.
So we've made pretty big investments in our client management team to make sure we're actively consulting with employers on how to design each plan how to put the right resources in place to educate and handle enrollment.
And a big piece of that is what Tom was referring to which is investments that we've made on understanding consumers in the different segments putting together product packages and hitting price points that play through those various groups of consumers.
So that's probably the biggest stream of investments that we're making is in those enrollment education and consumer capabilities.
I think we're starting to see some of the benefits of that.
I'll just add one more piece.
So the other part of it is too -- and this is again where we can -- we have 2 avenues to get to those customers.
We're also investing very heavily in that benefit communication and enrollment capability.
Because obviously the more the consumer is being asked to make choice and make decisions for themselves as opposed the employer making them for them that's an important part of our deliverable too.
And so that's actually one of the key things that differentiate I think both of our voluntary efforts in the marketplace from some of the new competitors that have come into the market.
We'll go next to Suneet Kamath of UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to follow on a similar line of questioning as it relates to exchanges.
I guess in the past on these calls from time to time you've talked about the more traditional health insurance companies being more aggressive in terms of price in group life group disability et cetera.
And as we start to think about the role exchanges may play in group life group disability and maybe voluntary benefits I guess I'm trying to figure out is there a risk that we might start to see some of the health insurance companies try to bundle a lot of these products on the exchanges and maybe offer a discount to customers or something like that in order to get demand and essentially take some of the business away from companies that don't have sort of a bundled approach? Mike you want to take the lead on that one? Sure.
I think there's always a risk that -- you got a new technology or new distribution platform that you want to stay close to and understand a couple of things.
First it's easy to go quickly to how could this displace current distribution channels.
So I think it's important to note that in the lines we're in it's a very underpenetrated market.
So today our industry is only getting to about a coverage level if you take income protection of about 1 out of every 3 workers.
So as exchanges come on and they enable you to get to different parts of the working population I think about hourly workers I think about part-time workers those are largely new opportunities and are growth opportunities for us.
So there is an interesting angle around overall industry growth through some of these exchange platforms.
But to your specific question around health carriers I think what we're working to do is be part of the major exchanges as they come up including those that are coming up through health insurers.
So we've got a well-established partnership with UnitedHealthcare for instance and staying close to developments on that front is a big part of our strategy.
If you think about the group and voluntary benefits between Colonial Life and Unum you've got major market players in major share.
And so as exchanges are being constructed they're looking to the industry leaders to be a part and that puts us in pretty good stead.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
I guess I'm just trying to -- and I know we're learning about these exchanges more and more each day.
And so if we don't know the answer to this then that's fine.
But is there anything that prevents a health insurance company let's say from just offering a bundled product that does everything right health insurance group life group disability voluntary benefits and sort of -- because of volume discounts or something like that essentially can undercut pricing in the market because they make it up on volume? I just don't know if that's even possible on these exchanges.
Yes good question.
So first thing I'd say is health carriers have always done that.
And now we're talking about a consumer frontier and but we've been at the employer frontier over several decades.
And yes there is always an interesting sort of bundling story on the health care front.
But specialist carriers like us have been very successful in pointing out a superior value proposition.
I think the second point is having a big database that includes a lot of information about how different employees buy and helping to sort of also shape the offering on the front end but also managed the risk on the back end is a big advantage.
So while you could sort of simply discount if you don't have a good line of sight to okay for this type of an employer with this type of employee base you're going to have a hard time.
I think building the right product combinations and managing the risk on the back end.
And Mike -- if I can add to what Mike just said.
I think if you look back to history there's been time and again discussions of bundling.
As Mike said even today before the exchanges were developed group carriers -- group health carriers on occasion were getting into the market very aggressively trying to come in market with in many -- in retrospect very underpriced offerings to their customers with a set of bundled products and it just doesn't work actually.
And so not that we don't worry about those things when we think about the competitive landscape.
It's obviously a changing competitive landscape.
I think you've heard us talk about this on previous calls.
We do believe we need to have a plan for how we've actually connect with the exchanges.
As both Mike and Randy mentioned we certainly do have plans for those.
But we also can't ignore the fact that this is probably is not going to substantially change the landscape for distribution how we communicate with employers and the individual employees.
And if it does we're in a good spot but also we don't want to miss the fact as Mike said there's an awful lot of good connections we have right now into the marketplace through distributors through employers.
And frankly those conversations are continuing businesses as usual and there's not a fundamental shift actually in how that business is being done.
If there is I think we're going to be in a good spot.
But also I wouldn't overplay the fact that this is going to be a dramatic change in how things are done in the next several years.
Research Division</strong> Got it that's helpful.
Just wondering if you can just shift gears to capital maybe for Rick just reviewing your 2014 outlook specifically around RBC.
Can you just remind me why the expected RBC ratio in 2014 is expected to come down versus 2013? I think you actually were a little bit above the high end of the range you provided at Investor Day.
And then second you have mentioned that you've done some creative things in terms of capital deployment in terms of pension plan UPIL et cetera.
Are there any other big sort of ticket items that you might consider for 2014 that might compete with share buybacks? Rick? Sure.
The -- In terms of the RBC coming down I wouldn't pay too much attention to that.
We've kind of been stable in our outlook of 375 to 400 over the last several years and that's our outlook for 2014.
We actually outperformed a little bit.
I think this year with some better statutory results than we had going into the year.
So we we're kind of still in that range not much to read into that.
I think at 375 to 400 we feel very good about the overall RBC position.
But with regards to new items coming out there it's a dynamic world.
And I would have told you going into last year some of the things that we did were not necessarily on the docket and similar to this year and we're going to react to that including the amount of share repurchase we've got a range out there of $300 million to $600 million and it means that we'll be nimble with whatever the market is giving to us.
So we're going to be flexible on that front.
The good news is we do expect a significant amount of capital generation and we will have opportunities to react to whatever environment we see.
We'll go next to Eric Berg of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You reminded us in your end of year presentation that that the Closed Block remains an important user of capital and it's really depressing the ROE of the entire Unum group.
Could you give us an update on the following: and we'll talk about the -- whether there's going to be a long-term -- or several analysts myself included have talked about whether there's going to be a long-term care reserve increase.
What about looking at this from another perspective? Is there a possibility at this point of either releasing capital in any way from this business or enjoying somehow notwithstanding it being in the Closed Block a sharp increase in earnings from there? Rick you want to start that one? And we'll get Jack involved as well in that response.
Yes sure.
I think when you look at the -- Eric when you look at the Closed Block I think those points you mentioned around how it will evolve over time I think are very good ones in terms of how we build the block how Jack and team are managing it without stealing much of his thunder in terms of -- as those opportunities provide themselves to relive capital similar to the way we did with our disability block going back several years.
And we want to make sure that we are positioned structured and ready to take advantage of those opportunities where we can extract capital from this block.
I will tell you that we don't see that right now.
And as you look out over maybe the next couple of years probably don't see it.
But Jack is definitely positioning the team to be ready for that.
Jack? And so UPIL being redomesticated was a good example of taking our first step and positioning that.
We -- the block is still very immature.
It's a young block particularly on the group side.
Results are -- can go up and down I would say.
And I think we would be cautious given the long-term nature of the block before we would take steps to recognize I think fluctuations in earnings or release capital in the block.
But also the industry is maturing.
So interest rates are getting steadier more predictable.
People are getting more comfortable with the reserve.
So it's not happening today but we're hopeful over the next 3 to 5 years as interest in the variable annuity block intensifies that makes it over into the long-term care block as well.
So we're going to position ourselves that if the capital markets ever do open up for long-term care we'll be in a position to take advantage of it.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up on the long-term care and speaking in terms of a timetable for whether an action would be taken if any is taken back -- as I recall back at the end of 2011 when you add to this I guess it was the individual business following your exit from the group insurance business you were making the points as I recall that while you had a large block the number of policyholders on claim was relatively small.
The number of policyholders in later duration of claims was even smaller still.
And therefore concerns about the credibility of your data you turned to I guess it was a newly released study of the Society of Actuaries to help you set reserves.
Now 3 years later have things changed materially? Do you have many more people on claims that the data is credible? Or to put it differently as you assess the adequacy of your reserves do you still need to look to the outside to understand the opening outlook? Jack want to give -- pick up on that because I think you touched on just very very earlier.
but a little more detail on just so the status of our in-force block.
The number of people on claims with us has been pretty steady actually.
It's increased modestly.
It's not expected to increase rapidly over time high-single-digit kind of increases annually.
And a part of that is because old people go on claims.
They have high mortality.
There is younger people on claim who recover.
So we will see steady growth in the claim block.
We don't expect to see dramatic growth.
We act different than most carriers because we have a big group business.
Most of our lives are on the group side.
They tend to be much younger.
The average age is still under 50 on the group side.
And so we would expect to have a much smaller claim block relative to number of lives insured in the amount of premium we collect than people have written in the older age.
And that gets back to that this is going to be a long run that it's going to be around for a long time.
It's going to grow gradually.
We don't expect dramatic things to happen at that ages and we're preparing for that.
We'll go next to Mark Finkelstein of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
Incidence trends in group disability how do they compare to kind of normalized levels? How do they compare to precrisis levels? Let me take that and Mike can add on to that.
I think that's a good topic I think from the incidence levels so we have a little bit of claims of that actually come in and then claims that ultimately get paid and I think that that paid side has actually been fairly steady over the -- even throughout the crisis.
That's one of the things that we saw is that -- where they actually went through to a paid status was actually fairly steady probably elevated slightly through that period of time has probably coming down slightly through this period of time.
And I think that's a trend line we like the looks of.
Yes just to build on quickly I'd say the fundamentals of the business are strong.
So whether it's paid incidents which is steady then modestly improved recoveries offsets those are in very good shape.
In the quarter we had volatility and miscellaneous income but as we sort of think about the business on a go-forward basis on the pricing trajectory I think we're in good shape.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Rick the New York company any changes in asset adequacy provisions? No.
In the fourth quarter we went through and actually did not raise any cash flow testing reserves that we have done in the last several quarters.
So we think that that's achieved.
Though which was driven primarily in previous years from interest rates and that's achieved stability around that so we didn't put anything up in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last quick one.
Is if you look at statutory earnings for the quarter you add back the social security database matching you actually add back a little bit of an adjustment you made that is kind of is offset at UPIL.
Stat earnings are actually pretty strong in the quarter.
And I guess I'm curious if there's anything that was phenomenalistic in that number or whether we should be thinking about that as a trend-able number? I know you talked about kind of the year being kind of in a normalized level at $680 million.
But the fourth quarter if you make those adjustments were pretty good.
I think -- Mark I think you're exactly right.
The fourth quarter was very good and when you adjust for those 2 things.
And it reflects many of our comments which are the risk results across the board are actually looking pretty good and that would generate stronger statutory earnings at the same time.
So we're happy with the fourth quarter levels.
I think if you pull out those 2 items we're -- we actually get up over 700 million for the year which is moving up faster than we probably expected at the beginning of the year and certainly helps our capital generation model.
Research Division</strong> But there's nothing in that number that's going the other direction that we should be thinking through other than maybe just some seasonality? No nothing that I would highlight.
We'll go next to Chris Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to see if you guys can talk about what products you're currently offering on the exchanges in the large national brokers? And then of those products which are the ones that seem to be selling the most? And recognizing we are still in the early stages here which is trying to get a sense of the product offerings.
Tom I would reiterate we're talking about small volumes that have come through to date.
What we've seen most prominently is actually simple employee-funded things like group short-term disability offer on a voluntary basis group term life insurance on a voluntary basis.
To be honest with you participation has been quite different depending on the employer and the situation.
And just another reason to stay close to it as it evolves and I think volumes pick up here over the course of 2014.
Research Division</strong> And then you guys to be certain you guys don't have a dental or vision product offering on the large national exchanges? We do not on the large national exchanges.
But we rolled out over the course of 2013 dental as part of a bundled package using a partner.
So we're taking that into our core market.
And to the extent that an exchange partner's looking for that we have gotten it on a private label basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as your sense at the I mean the dental and vision of those kind of the products that at least in the early stages seem to be leading the exchanges at least in conversations you guys are having with some of those brokers? Yes those are always of interest.
But no I wouldn't sort of signal that there is a dramatic difference from a basic term life insurance or short-term disability that those sort of all kind of all fit into a similar package.
Research Division</strong> And then Tom maybe as follow-up to Suneet question on voluntary as well.
Curious if you think we could see kind of some of the big maybe managed-care players that may or may not already have voluntary capabilities look to make acquisitions.
Or do you think it will kind of look to build out platforms on their own? Yes Chris it's hard to say.
I think to start with what [indiscernible] lets face it there's a lot of focus on voluntary for good reason.
This is the direction of the marketplace as I said earlier.
This is a place where we stake the claim out 5 or 6 years ago to make a much more significant commitment to this business.
And it's certainly been and we've been rewarded for doing so.
It's also -- it is -- it's a little early to figure out what strategically is going to happen as the results for this you sense that even with our exchange discussions.
It's not real clear how powerful or important its distribution channel exchanges are going to be.
So all kind of struggling with a bit of a new world in trying to figure out whether what's changed and what's not changed because it may very well be that some things simply haven't changed.
And just on the M&amp;A front I'd say Rick it's safe to say there's not a lot of voluntary businesses that are out there actually.
And so I think more likely than not when people get in this business they tend to actually have to build from within develop relationships with some of the enrollment firms or some of the technology firms that have connections into those exchanges because there just simply isn't a lot of M&amp;A activity in this marketplace at all.
We'll continue to be very active looking at things but most of these things just don't fit that particular bill.
But I don't...
Those that are in the voluntary space today are looking to get bigger.
And so I think that's a dynamic that we see across the board.
And so even if there was a desire to acquire in that front they'd find scarce opportunities.
And Chris it might not seem as sexy but I think Mike mentioned it we are actually looking at partnerships.
Actually UnitedHealthcare is obviously one.
But I do think in addition to people starting businesses people looking to buy business of which there aren't many we're also going to see maybe more partnership link ups that happen as a result of some of these things that are happening in the marketplace.
And I think we crossed that cultural barrier frankly because that often is not what companies like us in our industry do.
But we're in a different spot right now.
We developed as Mike said relationships on the dental front.
We developed relationships with one of the largest health care companies in the country.
And I think the partnership angle is also going to be the place you are going to see us continue to play I think as we kind of find people who have looked at this marketplace concluded the cost of entry is too high need to have it somewhere in their mix of products that they offer their customers and we can be a very viable partner in a venture like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last quick one for Rick.
you mentioned the pension plan the funded status there the freezing of it.
Have you explored any other strategies risk transfer or any other risk management on the block? Yes.
So when we look at our pension plan Chris I think that those options are out there and available to us.
So we set out there with a as I mentioned a slightly overfunded position.
And we'll have to look at other ways that we want to de-risk that over time but nothing on the docket today.
Thanks Chris.
We'll go to Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to come back to Rick.
The -- just following up on Finkelstein's question about the strong sort of core stat earnings.
And if you run rate that just considering you're not -- top line's flattish overall it would appear that that would pave the way for a pretty strong capital return here all things equal.
And so if we take the $50 million buyback in 4Q I assume that was low just because you were dealing with the redom et cetera.
Can we assume a significant pickup in the pace of buybacks here just considering the stat earnings visibility? Yes Tom.
This is Rick.
I don't know if I'd put that one for one in terms of that.
But I think I'd reiterate what both you and Mark have said is that stat run rate is higher to the tune of almost $100 million faster than we thought it would be going into that.
So that gives us a lot of flexibility to do different things.
Once we have that we have choices to make around how we redeploy that capital.
Share repurchase has been one of the bigger ones that we've used over the last several years.
I think you're right in saying the $50 million in the fourth quarter had a couple of factors that weighed into it.
One we are going through a lot of restructuring with UPIL et cetera.
And so the second piece I put into that is we're also dealing with the share price that was a lot higher.
As you look at this quarter and where we are our share price has come down as the market has.
Our capital generation has been good.
And I think that we feel well situated for a share repurchase as part of our overall capital deployment this year which puts us back in the $300 million to $600 million range.
But it's still early in the year and we'll see how that plays out.
But share repurchase will be part of our plans.
Research Division</strong> And so no leaning toward low end high end just in terms of what you know today? I wouldn't give that to you yet Tom.
But it's only because we're just starting the year and we've been blocked out.
And so we'll start buying back stock when our windows open back up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a related follow-up.
Is another potential use -- and I think you've already commented on long-term care and that kind of is what it is.
But the other thing I've been looking into is just IDI and whether or not that might be another use just considering I think that's just more of an interest rate issue as opposed to any claims issue.
But is that particularly I think it's Northwind which is the larger Closed Block of IDI.
Is that a potential use or need for capital if you look out over the next year or 2? Yes Tom.
On the IDI block the Closed Block I would say to take you back we haven't really talked as much about it lately because as we structured that block and as we've seen how that's return over the last 7 years since we went into the Northwind structure it's actually done quite well through a pretty rough period of time.
It still continues to look that way so I don't foresee anything that will cause us to put capital into that.
One of the things you might be looking at is in the fourth quarter we had some miscellaneous income that came in that area.
As opposed to letting that flow through we actually increased reserves for a similar amount but that's a onetime thing.
When you look at interest rates specifically what we've got in that block is primarily the cash flows that are coming off of our portfolio are paying claims.
So there really isn't any interest rate risk.
It's a very well-managed book.
You might get the stray item that happens around miscellaneous income.
But by no means does that denote that we wouldn't have a capital -- capital call as a result of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you guys don't disclose it anymore on legal entity basis you give a consolidated statutory numbers.
But previously you had showed Northwind legal entity results in that last quarter I believe had lost money.
Can you comment on what that did this quarter whether it's breakeven lost money quantum of either? I can -- actually can't comment on that.
I'd tell you it has been volatile.
But there is nothing in the results and I don't have it in front of me.
But I think there's nothing in our results this quarter which has been or anything that I see challenging within the IDI Closed Block.
If you step back actually look at Northwind over longer time horizon.
I mean we are what we paid off roughly half of the outstanding debt associated with Northwind.
The cash flows from that block have actually when you look at it over that period of time have come in remarkably close to what those expectations were.
So again I just ask us to step back from time to time and look that over that period of time.
Its actually that transactions performed pretty much in line with what we expected.
And we can see volatility quarter-to-quarter.
But I think the bigger things is that over the long term it's performing as expected.
Research Division</strong> And again just to reiterate that's not a business or not a legal entity that you would expect to be a call on capital over the next few years? That's correct.
And actually Tom pulled it up.
It actually made $10 million this quarter.
So you're going to see a little bit of volatility around that but I think it's fine.
We'll go to Ryan Krueger of Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> I just have a quick one.
When we look at the Closed Block segment the $2.7 billion of GAAP allocated equity how much of that is long-term care versus IDI at this point? Tom? Ryan this is Tom White.
Roughly of the $2.7 billion round numbers is about $1.3 billion for the closed disability block $1.3 billion for long-term care and the rest is a collection of other smaller runoff businesses.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And on the long-term care piece specifically as the block ages and reserves increase over time as a result should we expect the allocated equity to grow? Or how should we look at that? Jack? Yes.
I mean I would expect as reserves grow the allocated equities are going to grow.
So it will mature.
It should be funded out of the premiums that the reserve piece.
So there is a little bit of a bubble yet to come.
I think going on the overall block I think is as that's happening the disability block as it continues to shrink down the shrinking and there's capital being released as a result of that.
I think you should said Jack when you take the 2 together at least for a couple years it's probably more of an increase as a block.
But we're getting to that point where actually it starts to then flatten out at that point.
We'll go next to John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> So just wanted to come back to this idea of statutory earnings being in the slightly elevated pace and maybe get at it a little bit more differently.
Fourth quarter I think we've seen from just about every group insurance type company so far that results on the underwriting side have been pretty favorable.
On an overall basis especially if you just sort of strip out the Closed Block and look at your ongoing businesses on an overall basis was fourth quarter for Unum better than a seasonal typical seasonal good result? John this is Rick.
If you think about this quarter we actually had a good fourth quarter last year.
And we can have good fourth quarters so I don't know if I'd take that.
I look at it more from a full year basis was actually quite strong.
And we saw a little bit of the seasonality improvement in fourth quarter.
We did last year as well but I'm focused more on the full year type numbers.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
So on a full year basis again just to clarify so maybe a little bit to the good on the underwriting side on a full year basis I think that's right.
I think we have been saying consistently all year long we are seeing good underwriting results across all of our businesses.
Research Division</strong> And then just wanted to think about this.
Obviously you pointed out lower miscellaneous investment income in the disability line in the U.S.
On an overall company sort of consolidated investment income basis was miscellaneous income or maybe net investment income overall was it low in line maybe slightly above? Can you characterize that? Yes I think it was actually right in line John.
I think that it actually reported a little bit higher but we mentioned the Closed Block and how some of that went straight to reserve.
So if you net that out we're kind of tracking right in line with what we usually get on average.
Research Division</strong> Perfect and then last one for you is just.
Obviously so much to learn over the next whatever the next intermediate term around health care exchanges how the market shifts a little bit.
I'm interested you guys obviously have a great brand in the sort of broker space.
Is there -- are you seeing any reason to invest in branding more from a retail perspective as you look at the opportunity and getting closer to the individual employee? Actually John let me ask both Mike and Randy to speak to that.
But I think as you heard us talk even on call this morning one of the things that we've began in a quite some time ago was really much much better understanding of the consumer -- what drives consumer behaviors and things like that.
And from which then we can make informed decisions but I think about what you just said.
And maybe Mike just talk a little bit how that's relating to Unum US? And as I said Randy just talk a little bit how that's relating to our Colonial Life operation? Sure I like to say that a lots of play out where we sit today we look at it and say we see the employer very much involved and their advisers.
So I think you rightly call out the Unum an Colonial Life brand is strong with the distribution.
Also strong with employers and professional benefits decision-makers so that remains a strategic advantage for us.
And then if we stack up investments that we can make certainly brand at a consumer level as an investment that we can make but actually we're prioritizing investments in product and capability over that.
So as we sort of think about was the next dollar and where is it going to go and where is the best return we feel quite strongly that having better technology better education and better product which is where we are making the majority of investments is still the best ROI for us.
Randy would you like to add anything to that Randy? Yes Tom.
I just I'd emphasize what Mike said about the employers still being in the driver's seat.
So our promotional and advertising efforts are going to stay focused at that employer decision-maker.
But that being said there is going to be more branding type emphasis at the consumer level as time goes forward.
We're in the process of kind of refreshing our brand here at Colonial life at the present time.
And we'll be emphasizing that more strongly in the marketplace going forward.
I think with this point we have time I think Tom for one more question.
We'll go to Yaron Kinar of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Question on the holdco liquidity.
I think that last year going into 2013 the target was 1x to 2x interest and dividends.
And it seems like the $500 million target for this year comes in or below the top end of that range.
So curious as to what drove that lower.
When we look at the holdco liquidity of $514 million where we ended the year we actually were in the $500 million to $800 million range.
So we're actually within the range as we look at it going into last year.
A couple of things to think about with holdco liquidity.
One is we talked in the past about 1x to 2x coverage and that includes all cash uses dividends as well as interest payments.
And as we look at it now one of the things that we did last year which was we put on a credit facility as well for $400 million.
so we have significant amounts of liquidity that which sits in cash and that which is untapped in our credit facilities as well.
So I think that probably is fine to drift down below that 2x although we can of look at that as part of our overall sources in terms of when we think about capital deployment.
So you'll see that fluctuate.
And I think the plan we put out there for next year would actually be in a similar range of that $500 million to $800 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is there some sort of rule of thumb you could offer as to how to think of possible margin impact of decreasing retention rates and maybe higher sales? Not quickly.
Not quickly yes.
It's a broad question.
Yes.
I mean we obviously throughout all our businesses participation rates and voluntary plans Mike I think around here is incredibly important.
So we look at it very carefully but I'm sure sure if there is a good rule of thumb actually on that.
Yes I think in general we look at if the question is persistency versus new sales trade-up what we'd say is that -- on persistency where we've seen a point or two deterioration of the margins of that are significantly below the block so it actually has not a dampening but an actually increase in the profitability of that block of business.
And in terms of the new business coming on we're pretty disciplined about the levels that we bring it on.
So I wouldn't anticipate material changes in margin based on the mix between those 2 factors at least in group insurance for our business.
And I would just add to I think we spend an awful lot of time on persistency.
Because obviously part of the challenge is to obtain a new customer.
But actually frankly most importantly is keeping the right customers.
And so when Mike talked and Randy talked about the investments we've made in sales and services and infrastructures and people and training and things like that -- which by the way we've been through some significant amounts with both of those organizations already this year.
A big reason to do so is because is not just getting the sale but actually the more we can keep business that's incredibly important part of our ability to generate margins and consistency of our financial performance going forward.
So that's very prominent but there's just no rule of thumb unfortunately I am afraid that we can share.
Thank you all for taking the time to join us this morning.
And we look forward to seeing many of you at our various upcoming investor conferences and events over the next several weeks.
And this will complete our fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
Again thank you very much.
That does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Unum Group First Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Senior Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead sir.
Great thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the first quarter 2014 earnings conference call for Unum.
Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the SEC and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2013.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website at unum.com.
I'll remind you that the statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found in our statistical supplement on our website also in the Investors section.
So participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen President and CEO; and Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; as well as the CEOs of our business segments Mike Simonds for Unum US; Peter O'donnell for Unum UK; Randy Horn for Colonial Life; and Jack McGarry for the Closed Block.
And now I'll turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Tom? Thank you Tom and good morning everybody.
I'm very pleased with our overall performance in the first quarter and I think they were off to a strong start to the year.
Operating earnings per share which excludes realized investment gains and losses as well as certain pension costs increased 8.8% to $0.87 per share which is consistent with our 2014 outlook for operating earnings per share growth of 5% to 10%.
Our growth rate this quarter was more balanced than it's been in a while with our after-tax operating earnings increasing 4.7% the highest rate of growth since 2011.
Once again we have been able to augment our operating performance through capital management actions which I'll touch on in a moment.
Importantly too our book value per share excluding AOCI which I continue to believe is a strong measure of enterprise value increased 9.2% year-over-year to $33.01.
Now let me touch on a few specific highlights before turning things over to Rick.
First we continue to generate strong consistent operating results within our ongoing businesses with all 3 Unum US Colonial Life and Unum UK generating higher year-over-year operating earnings.
Unum US results continue to be driven by favorable risk results reflecting our focus on disciplined underwriting pricing and risk selection.
Colonial Life delivered a very strong quarter with favorable risk result and strong premium growth.
And finally Unum UK continued to show solid year-over-year margin improvement driven in large part by our actions to improve profitability in our group life line of business.
Overall our core ongoing business segments are generating consistent solid margins with an operating return on equity of 14.8% for the quarter which is towards the upper end of the outlook we provided for 2014.
Secondly the results of our Closed Block were again within our expectations this quarter.
The loss ratio in the long-term care line improved relative to recent trends continuing in -- at the lower end of the range of our expectations.
This still remains a challenging business but I am very encouraged by the actions that our team is taking to manage these blocks of business.
Third we continue to speak stronger sales growth in both of our U.S.
operations this quarter and good growth in the Unum UK in our flagship group disability product line.
In Unum US total sales increased by 7.2% with particularly strong results in our small and midsized employer markets which are employers with under 2 000 lives where group benefit sales grew by 16.5% over last year and our voluntary sales grew by 9%.
We also again saw strong sales results in our Colonial Life operation.
We're driven by strength in our commercial market business.
Total sales increased 6.5% in the first quarter.
Lastly while our Unum UK sales were generally flat in local currency this quarter group disability sales increased 6% in the quarter.
Group life sales comparisons will remain challenging as we continue to take aggressive pricing actions in a very competitive market.
Moving next to investments.
While the credit quality of the investment portfolio remains in very good shape we continue to be challenged by today's low interest rates and tight corporate bond spreads.
Frankly these pressures increase in the first quarter and pose challenges for us and our industry.
We are however maintaining our investment quality standards and are continuing to adjust prices in those products that are most interest rate sensitive.
We are hesitant to invest fully in this environment; and as a result we hold higher-than-normal cash balances which is having a negative impact on our net investment income.
You saw that in our Unum US and Closed Block segments this quarter.
And finally our capital position remains quite strong and continues to provide us with significant financial flexibility.
Our risk-based capital position was approximately 400% in the first quarter and our holding company liquidity position stood at $822 million which includes the proceeds from our recently completed debt offering.
We repurchased $100 million of stock in the quarter and that's now 15 of the last 16 quarters that we have repurchased shares totaling approximately $1.9 billion over this period.
As you know dividend actions are also an important part of our capital management strategy and has been the practice in the past.
Our Board of Directors will review our dividend policy at the upcoming May meeting.
I expect you'll see another increase at that time.
Over the past 5 years we have increased our dividend by 93% or about 14% per year.
So in summary the first quarter was a good solid start to the year.
I'm encouraged by our stronger level of operating earnings growth which combined with our share repurchase activities resulted in strong per-share growth in operating earnings and book value.
Additionally the combination of strong persistency and good sales growth has allowed us to generate modest but profitable top line growth.
Lastly our capital position remains very healthy giving us the ability to invest in our business and markets while also returning capital to our shareholders through share buybacks and dividend increases.
Now I'll turn things over to Rick for a review of our operating results.
Rick? Thank you Tom.
Our first quarter results were solid as we reported operating earnings per share of $0.87 up almost 9% from last year.
We saw good underlying growth in our after-tax operating earnings which accounted for roughly half of that growth with the balance coming through our ongoing capital management.
We will continue to focus on driving growth in operating earnings and our first quarter performance was the best quarter we've seen in the past 2 years.
Looking first at Unum US operating earnings increased 1.3% year-over-year driven by favorable experience in the group life and AD&amp;D line and the supplemental and voluntary lines.
Group life and AD&amp;D produced another strong quarter with $59.8 million in operating income up 3.3% on stable risk experience and premium growth of just over 2%.
Our supplemental and voluntary line reported operating income of $82.5 million for the first quarter up 14% from a year-ago quarter as our voluntary benefits experience stabilized from the higher lapses we saw in the year-ago quarter.
Operating income in our group disability business declined to $68.5 million from $77.9 million a year ago driven primarily by lower levels of miscellaneous net investment income and some pressure on net investment income from holding higher-than-normal cash balances in the quarter.
I'd also remind you that we recorded a $4 million gain on debt ex [ph] last year's first quarter.
Importantly risk results in group disability remained quite strong with a benefit ratio declining to 83% this quarter from 84.3% a year ago as the underlying experience showed stable to lower overall claim incidence and continued favorable claim recovery performance familiar themes for this line for the past several quarters.
Looking forward we expect a slightly higher level of earnings from group disability with some incremental improvements in the benefit ratio offset by some ongoing pressure from net investment income given the lower-rate environment.
We expect our margins in this line to remain strong consistent with what we've delivered over the past several quarters.
Overall it was a solid quarter for the Unum US segment as return on equity was 13.4%.
Moving to Unum UK.
Operating earnings were GBP 22 million for the first quarter 9% higher than the first quarter of 2013 and generally consistent with our fourth quarter earnings.
We continue to make good progress in improving the profitability of our U.K.
business particularly with the repricing and repositioning of the group life business.
The operating ROE for the U.K.
has improved to about 18% for the quarter.
In the first quarter the Unum UK benefit ratio was 70.1% which is slightly higher than a year ago but down from the fourth quarter.
We continue to see improved performance in our group life line of business while risk experience was a little bit weaker in our group disability line reflecting higher claim incidence.
Overall I'm pleased with the progress Peter and his team have made in the U.K.
Colonial Life generated a very strong quarter at $79.4 million compared to $75.4 million a year ago one of the strongest quarters in its history.
We saw favorable risk experience across all of its business lines producing a benefit ratio of 50.5% compared to 52.5% a year ago.
The underlying profitability of this business continues to be excellent with an operating ROE of 18% for the quarter.
Rounding out the enterprise the Closed Block also had a strong first quarter with operating income of $29.1 million at the high end of our range of expectations for this segment.
The interest-adjusted benefit ratio for the LTC line improved relative to our recent experience at 84.7% primarily reflecting an improvement in claim incidence.
We generally expect the LTC interest-adjusted benefit ratio to be in the range of 85% to 90% so this quarter's experience was slightly under that.
The interest-adjusted benefit ratio for the Closed Disability Block was consistent with a year ago at 81.5%.
Looking at our sales and growth trends across the company the positive sales momentum that emerged in the second half of 2013 following the slower half of last year continued to build in the first quarter.
And we're quite pleased with the sales results in our operations.
In Unum US total sales increased by 7.2% in the quarter with solid contributions across our various product lines and market segments.
Within our group benefits lines LTD STD and group life total sales increased by 12.1% with a 16.5% growth in the core market and 5% in the large-case market.
Additionally our voluntary benefit sales increased by about 5% with particularly good results in the core market segment where we were up 9%.
We continue to be encouraged as we look to the second quarter.
And in addition to good sales persistency for our Unum US employee benefits line ticked up to 89% for the quarter compared to just under 88% for the full year 2013.
So bringing it all together overall premium growth for Unum US was up 1.1% for the quarter well within our outlook range of 0 to 2% for the full year.
In the U.K.
sales were down slightly at GBP 10.4 million for the quarter.
We produced growth in the disability line of 5.7% but the overall decline was driven by our group life line of business where we continue to be careful on pricing.
Persistency in the U.K.
improved over last year.
However persistency in the group life line continues to reflect the pricing actions we are continuing to implement.
Premium income was also lower than last year's first quarter due to lapses resulting from our repricing of the life block.
Finally at Colonial Life we saw a very good sales for the quarter an increase of 6.5% with positive contributions from both new accounts and existing accounts.
We also saw a very strong trends with re-enrollments in some of our larger account cases.
Persistency was slightly lower relative to the first quarter of 2013 but premium income increased by 3% which is consistent with our expectation of 2% to 4% for Colonial Life.
Overall we're quite pleased with the growth trend lines that we see in the company.
Now moving to the investment portfolio.
The credit quality of our portfolio remains in excellent shape and the launch list of potential problems continues to be quite low.
The decline in interest rates and the spread compression made for a challenging investment environment again in the first quarter.
We saw A 10-year bond dropped by 36 basis points.
At times like this we will sometimes hold cash balances for our product portfolios at higher-than-normal levels as we look for better opportunities to put the money to work.
The net effect is some near-term pressure on investment income relative to our expectations and we felt that across a number of our business lines.
This would be similar to what we have seen a year ago and our team will continue to remain disciplined in good asset selection.
Moving to an update on capital management.
The weighted average risk-based capital ratio for our traditional U.S.
life insurance companies was approximately 400% and our holding company cash and marketable securities was $822 million at quarter end.
Our statutory operating earnings of $130 million continues to be within our range of expectations though it was on the lower side of what we have been experiencing.
Statutory results can tend to be a little bit more volatile.
During the quarter we took advantage of the low interest rate tight corporate bond spread environment and did issue $350 million of 10-year notes at a 4% coupon.
We are in the process of redeeming roughly half of the debt we have maturing in 2015.
Total amount maturing next year is 279 -- $297 million at a 6.85% coupon.
As a result for the second quarter we will be reporting debt extinguishment costs and a currency hedge gain related to the debt and those numbers will net close to 0.
We continue to buy back our shares with some of the capital we're generating and the first quarter was a more active quarter for share purchases relative to the end of last year.
Share buybacks totaled $100 million and keeps us on track for our $300 million to $600 million range for the full year.
I would also affirm that our 2014 outlook for growth in operating earnings per share remains in the range of 5% to 10%.
In fact most of the first quarter trends we experienced were in line with our 2014 outlook for sales premium growth and our ROE expectations; and I would say it was a good start to the year.
Now I'll turn it back to Tom for his closing comments.
Thanks Rick.
Before we move to your questions I'll close by Rick reiterating how pleased we are with our start to 2014.
Our focus remains on continuing to profitably grow our business through disciplined pricing underwriting and expense management along with a clear need to maintain sound risk management in managing our investments and capital.
We expect to continue to generate capital; and as we have done in the past balance the deployment of that capital with the needs of the business opportunities we see in the marketplace and returning capital to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividend actions.
This will complete our prepared remarks.
And operator let's move to the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just for Rick first just to start off with long-term care can you just give us an update in terms of how you're thinking about the guidance you've given us in the past around a potential reserve build? Obviously there have been a number of moving pieces UPILs come onshore underwriting score was a little bit better but interest rates are a little bit lower.
So if we kind of put it all in the mix how are you thinking about that original guidance that you gave us? Sure.
Suneet let me take you back actually a couple of years and I don't think it's changed dramatically.
As we look at our long-term care assumptions these are long-term assumptions we will see those change over as we look through time.
If I were to highlight a couple of things that we continue to look at is one of the underlying experience that we see you would've seen we actually had a good first quarter.
That is one data point but it -- it's certainly good to see that as we've seen volatility in the line.
As you mentioned the -- on the interest rate side we are in a difficult investing environment.
But as we come up of the year end I would say that it's not dramatically different than what we've seen here over the last several years.
And as we look out to the range it's something that we have to evaluate as part of the overall mix in terms of our ability to invest those cash flows that we'll receive as part of the long-term care and the management of that.
I think the big thing that we continue to work hard on and Jack continues to work with his team is on the pricing front.
And maybe I'll turn it over to Jack to talk about the progress we're making on that front.
Jack? Thanks Rick.
We're really pleased with where -- the progress we're making on rate increases.
We've exceeded what was built into the initial gross premium valuation reserve for rate increases.
So far we're continuing to file for additional rate increases.
We're continuing to seek good success in getting additional approvals.
And actually I think the environment for rate increases has continued to improve somewhat within the state regulatory environment.
Research Division</strong> Any sense in terms of order of magnitude of how much better you're doing on the price increases versus what you thought? I mean it's in the 5% to 10% range.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then I guess for Rick just to follow up on this as we think about still that potential reserve build hanging out there at some point is it fair to say that given the capital contribution you made when you brought UPIL onshore on a statutory basis that you've kind of handled what we might have otherwise seen as a statutory reserve build at the time that you take potential GAAP charge? Is that the right way to think about it? Certainly when you look to last year and the work that we did about bringing our UPIL business back onshore as part of that restructuring actually statutory reserves were increased.
So we've talked in the past about stat to GAAP differentials and how those were close to each other as we went back a couple of years and our stat reserves have increased as part of that process.
So there is some room there between our statutory reserves and our GAAP reserves as we look out to the future.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just a final question on this topic so if there's a GAAP event that happens at some point '15 '16 whenever it is we should -- should we think about that as sort of a noncash sort of event since perhaps it might not be a statutory impact and thus potentially no impact on your capital management targets? Well I think I'd just repeat what I just told you that there is a differential between those 2 to project out that far in how things would play out.
I don't think it's something that we want to do today.
But I think the actions that we took at last year end to bring that back onshore were good proactive strong actions and we'll continue to manage the block that way.
And it's hard to isolate any one thing.
We'll go next to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple more general sales were very strong and surprising -- I was wondering if you could put that in the context of maybe new accounts new clients versus payroll.
Yes.
Mike do you want to get started with the Unum US business? And then maybe Randy ask you to speak as well actually on that.
Sure thanks.
Yes we've seen a good rebound and I think Rick alluded to it earlier but we saw health care reform and ACA implementations slow things down a year ago.
So the first half it was slow as employers and their advisors were sorting through the changes.
We saw proposal activity down really across our market segment and sales declines in the third quarter.
That started to abate a bit.
We saw a little bit of growth in the fourth quarter.
And so I'd see first quarter result as the next step on that continuum being up about 7%.
Encouraging for us we continue to see strong growth out of existing clients.
So over 60% of our new sales from a Unum perspective came from those existing relationships.
That's very important to us because we know those sales actually drive greater stickiness.
It's a contributing factor to why I think persistency continues to tick up a bit.
It also comes in favorably priced and with a slightly lower acquisition cost.
So existing clients remain a really key growth opportunity for us.
I would say and maybe I'll turn it over to Randy with this while in the mid and larger ends of the markets we're seeing that increase in proposal activity continue at then a very small end of the market say under 50 life employers.
There's still a fair degree of sorting out going on the health insurance side so it's still a little bit sticky there.
And Randy before you chime in I just -- maybe Mike I think it's worth saying too that the growth you saw in the first quarter really did not come from natural growth.
We weren't seeing an emergence of that as a contributor to growth per se yet.
Yes.
We think about -- when we think about the earned premium lines Tom that's right.
We're seeing basically a flat level of natural growth.
So the growth we see in premium from new employees being added or rate increases driving premium increases it's really -- our growth is coming from new lines of coverage sold new clients coming in and plan design changes and the like.
Randy do you want to add to that? Yes.
You bet Tom.
Yes we saw good sales growth for both new accounts and existing accounts.
As Mike said there's still some ongoing pressure in that real small end of the market under 50 employees.
But -- so -- our number of new accounts was down a little bit in that segment.
So on average we were just writing larger cases.
We are seeing good momentum though building.
Things were kind of loosening up in that smaller end of the market so we're optimistic with the trend lines we're seeing at the current time.
But again good solid numbers for both new accounts and existing accounts.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Randy same for you not really employment growth but just offering more products to existing accounts? Yes it's offering more products but just knocking on more doors Steven just getting them in.
Our new rep count was up nicely in the first quarter.
They're the ones writing a lot of the smaller new accounts and we're seeing very good productivity from new reps so far here in 2014.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One more Randy for you if I may.
There was a -- there was an -- I think it was the Wall Street Journal things are beginning to blur but I think it was Wall Street Journal.
There was an article with regards to changing definitions of cancer and maybe changing treatment.
I don't know if you saw that or not.
But if the definition of cancer was changed would that affect your business? I did not see that specific article Steven.
But no I don't think that would have a direct impact on us in terms of changing the definitions.
I mean I'd have to see specifically what you're talking about.
But again we sell purely indemnity products that lay out very specifically what we'll pay for certain types of treatments and diagnoses.
I guess if there was some broad-based change in the definition of what cancer is it could have some impact on us.
But I don't think it would be all that immediate.
And of course we'd have the opportunity to go in and change our product designs and our definitions if that did take place.
And we'll go next to Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> In the Colonial Life segment the benefit ratio is under 52% for the first time in a while.
Just wanted to get a sense of whether you feel that level of improvement which is sort of at the low end of your range is sustainable.
Randy do you want to pick up on that? You bet.
Yes it was definitely in the lower end of our range.
We had great results in all of our major product segments very good mortality in the quarters so everything just lined up very nicely for us.
So that is lower than what we would anticipate for the balance of the year.
Now our outlook is for stable benefit ratios.
We feel really good about kind of that 51% to 53% range so again look for good stability there.
But everything just lined up well for us in the first quarter so a little bit on the low side there.
Research Division</strong> So Randy as growth improves in Colonial Life that will probably be a positive factor in the benefit ratio going forward right? Absolutely because you have better benefit ratios in that -- in those early durations of almost every product.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching gears to private exchanges any update you can provide there in terms of the growth opportunity or product expansion potential that would be helpful.
Sure.
Why don't you Mike sort of pick that one up? And I think Randy you can add a little to it as well.
But Mike? Sure.
Thanks Tom.
Certainly activity and interest in exchanges continue to increase out there but actual volumes of premium coming through on private exchanges is it's pretty minimal to date.
And really we think about it regardless of the pace with the absolute level of adoption amongst employers.
We're pretty well positioned both Unum and the Colonial Life businesses.
Being category leaders in each of these products is important as intermediaries and technology firms create exchanges.
They're coming to us.
Our leadership in voluntary benefits has positioned us well and that we got over 40 connects into this technology companies previously focused on benefit administration now focused on private exchanges.
So while it's early days and I suspect it's going to play out not over months or quarters but over the next few years.
We feel like we're well positioned.
And I think the last comment I'd make before turning to Randy in all of the exchanges in which we're participating and in fact in all that we've encountered in the market for our lines of business the carrier is selected by the employer.
So I think at times there's a little bit of confusion out there as to whether individual employees are going to be choosing amongst different carriers for life insurance.
But in fact to get good spread of risk in the most efficient delivery each of these exchanges is looking for the employer to select the carrier first.
So our strong brand reputation with employers and with their advisors has played in the market traditionally and will play in these exchanges going forward.
How about Randy if you have anything to add there.
Yes.
I guess maybe Mike the only thing I would add is in addition to the employer continuing to be involved in making account-specific decisions the exchanges we're involved with today for a VB line of business we would be the only carrier involved on that specific employer account for that selected VB line of coverage.
So we're not -- it is -- it's not an open marketplace kind of situation where an employee would be selecting amongst several different VB carriers.
We're also very focused on continuing to have our agency system involved our benefit counselors involved on those accounts.
So again we are involved in a number of exchanges today.
We're evaluating several others.
Not seeing a lot of sales generally in the industry coming through private exchanges today but we feel like we are very well positioned going forward if that in fact does happen.
We'll go next to Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So we've been focusing on the sales in the U.S.
for the first half of the Q&amp;A.
I want to switch gears maybe to the U.K.
And I noticed that the large case market saw some improvement in sales after some pressure last year.
I think that's also the market where the unit came into a little bit of a pressure in terms of underwriting results a couple of years ago.
So maybe you could give us a little more color as to what's driving the sales growth there and what's different this time as opposed to kind of the 2010 there? Peter do you want to respond to that question? Yes.
Great.
Thanks very much for that.
It's very different I think.
So as you know we've seen sort of undertaking a renewal program across our book.
What we are seeing is in the group life area where I think we were very competitive a few years ago in the group life market that's where the life large cases where written around 2010.
If you look at what we've written in group life we're being very selective.
We still see that market as very competitive.
We wrote very little large schemes in the group life market.
And it's a challenging market we think to make money in.
Some of our competitors are writing cases there.
But I'm taking some of our business actually on our persistency is a bit lower as well in that large case.
So we're being selective in where we write that business and maintaining our discipline.
Where we have seen success though is in our LTD market.
We can compete very effectively with other carriers in that space.
Our claims proposition is in our view and in the brokers' view more value for money in terms of what we do for the customers.
And we can charge a bit of a premium for that claim service over and above the competition.
And actually our premium tends to be around 10% of the large end where the claim service works.
And we've been successful in writing a number of large schemes in the first quarter versus the competition.
And we've also been successful in bringing some new schemes to market in that space where particularly the banks are looking at what the benefits are and offer.
And now the economy recovers a little bit in the U.K.
they're willing to invest a bit more in their employee base.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So it's mostly our financial institution banks granted? That's right.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more question if I may.
On the Closed Block I saw that the individual disability premiums declined by quite a bit.
And I was hoping maybe to get a little more color as to what was driving that decline.
Jack do you want to take that one? Yes.
I mean the decline is just a natural runoff of the book.
That block has been closed for a long time since the mid '90s.
Those people are aging.
Most people do not extend their coverage beyond age 65.
So it's kind of like the baby boom retiring if you will.
So it's just naturally running off the books.
Research Division</strong> So that move kind of maybe mid single-digit decline to low-teens should be -- we should think of that maybe as the new run rate? I mean I think as the block ages it's going to -- the decline is going to accelerate.
So yes I would think that would be the -- I don't know whether this quarter is specifically the new run rate but you should think about the run rate accelerating as the block ages.
But more in the mid single digits than the double digits.
We'll go next to Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> First question on expenses.
Expenses have picked up across a number of segments the past few quarters.
So I was just hoping you could talk about what's driving this and whether we should view it your recent expenses as a reasonable run rate going forward or if there's some one-off investments in there.
Yes sure Erik.
This is Rick.
When you look at our expense base overall as you would have seen over many years we manage it very tightly.
We think about it from an expense ratio so relative to premiums and manage that as well.
Relative to last year you would have seen a tick-up.
But I would tell you it's basically we're right on our plans for this year.
Included in those plans include some investments that we continue to make in the company around technology around brand and different things like that but it's very much in line with our expectations overall.
So I think what you saw this quarter is about a run rate that you should expect for the remainder of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on long-term care just curious we saw the first noticeable reinsurance transaction this quarter with CNOs Closed Block deal but they didn't.
I realize there are a number of significant differences between your block and theirs but I'm curious whether you view this as a one-off transaction or does it suggest that a third-party market for long-term care risk might be beginning to emerge? Good.
Good question.
This is Rick again Erik.
When you think about that and we've talked about that previously in terms of what will happen we think in this market over time as more data evolves in long-term care space I think there will be more opportunities for other people to take on that risk at certain prices.
This transaction you saw there might be one of those that actually bodes that's out there in the horizon.
I think you also look at a very robust reinsurance market for other blocks of business that you've seen out there.
So those are all good things.
What I wouldn't do is read across to our business that there'll be something of a large nature that's coming across our block anytime soon.
But those are all good indicators that the market is getting better.
But as part of the transition we would expect to see in this market as data grows as more information grows as capital becomes available to it it will be something we look at.
And that points you back a number of years to what we did with our Northwind transaction that it went through the same cycle around the individual disability space.
And we hope to see that in the long-term care space as well.
So good things but don't read across that there's something imminent on the horizon for us.
We'll go next to Christopher Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question on the U.K.
So it seems results are sort of tracking back in line with your expectations with earnings clearly stabilizing the sales and the life piece falling as you work through kind of that repricing process.
And I think you're going to be through kind of the repricing of that book by the end of the year.
So just wondering how you're thinking about the reinsurance agreement that you have in place when that's up for renewal and if you have an estimate for how much earnings you're kind of giving up with that -- with the reinsurance contract.
Rick why don't you start on that one and then Peter can pick up a little color on it.
I think the way you characterized it Chris is right that as we went through that reinsurance transaction we're going through a major restructuring of the block including the reinsurance including pricing and what we're doing in the market.
And actually this year-end we recaptured some of that business.
So I shouldn't say recapture.
We renewed reinsurance but we didn't have the same amount that we reinsured out.
We have retention levels higher of around 70% 75% of the block.
At the same time on the reinsurance front we did keep in place a volatility cover.
So we actually per life we retain less.
We think that's good volatility management for that block of business.
And in both cases we've been very happy with the pricing.
And once again this is a structure which goes out 1 year.
So we have a lot of flexibility as we get towards the end of this year to figure out what type of retention we want to continue to hold on that block.
But I put all that in the context of we're very happy with how the returns have changed and improved for our U.K.
life business and we think of reinsurance there as a tool to help us manage the return to good profitability that we've experienced in the past.
Peter do you want to add a little bit too just in terms of where we are in the repricing actions and just maybe some of the market dynamics? Yes.
Thanks Tom.
So in terms of what are the repricing actions yes in terms of the -- we're about 75% 80% through.
So I guess in U.S.
terms we're in the seventh innings.
We've probably got eighth or ninth innings.
So I expect to be done by sort of the end of the third quarter on the repricing.
As Rick said what we've seen is we're very happy with the business we're retaining.
We're seeing those results come through.
You can see that in this quarter's results very evidently in the sort of group life product stream and the return on equity.
And as we've reached the sort of third quarter we'll take another look at the reinsurance.
I suspect the per life looks like a good thing to do and then we'll look at the retention level depending on how it's performing.
But it's certainly working for us today.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then a follow-up on LTC for Jack.
So the repricing comments were helpful.
Wondering if you could talk about conversations you're having in the marketplace.
It seems like there's sort of increased focus from the NAIC around the repricing process and if minimum loss ratios should maybe be met before submitting price increases.
So really just wondering how you're thinking and handling these dialogues.
And if the type of loss ratios that have been proposed are adopted any estimate for what portion of your book are already above those minimums and would be eligible for repricing? Yes we've been actually very active in dialogues with the NAIC and regulators.
I've gone out personally visited Scott Kipper who runs the Senior Issues Task Force of the NAIC.
I've been out to see him twice.
The loss ratio that's being vented about are logically prospectively on new business written.
They don't necessarily apply to enforce blocks and particularly close blocks.
But even with that said the loss ratios are at a level that they wouldn't impact our ability to pursue rate increases.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one quick one for Mike or Tom.
You've talked about kind of expanding partnerships as sort of the benefit marketplace evolves and you've done a number of things with health care.
Just wondering if there's anything else in the pipeline that we should have on our radar.
Chris it's a great call.
And Mike maybe talked about that because there is a lot going on that we probably can't get too specific.
But we're in some interesting general dialogue.
Thanks.
Great question Chris.
And I'd say the macro trend as you are seeing health plans continued to get less bridge and gaps get created and that creates real opportunities for us broad-based.
And then finding new and interesting ways to get after those opportunities continue to surface.
You mentioned the UHC partnership.
That's been a very good partnership.
We're about 3 years in.
It's been a differentiator for us in that large part of the marketplace to have the world's biggest managed care company and the world's leading disability company working together.
And we actually have a pretty healthy pipeline of other partnerships coming that attack actually different segments as well.
We'll go next to Thomas Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to come back to long-term care.
So first on the rate increases you're getting.
Can you comment on whether or not you see a big enough benefit to offset the previous comments you've made and the previous disclosures you've had about potential charges I think mainly related to discount rates.
So can you -- is there any way to quantify that? Is that a positive enough new development that there's a chance that that could fully offset the potential need to strengthen GAAP reserves? That's my first question.
Yes.
Rick.
Yes let me take that again.
And Tom maybe I'll recharacterize some of the things I'd say which is just to say there are -- kind of if you think about it 3 big moving parts and they're constantly changing.
One of them is going to be the experience in the block.
And if you think about what we saw this quarter that's good but these are once again long-term views of how we see the experience in the block emerging.
We've got the interest rate pressures.
We've got to put these cash flows to work at certain levels and we'll deal with that over a period of time.
This quarter a little bit tougher but once again these are our long-term views around how cash will get put to work over a very long period of time.
And the third piece as you say is the price increases.
And so that's a little bit better than we thought.
And these pieces of how we see them how we feel about them are constantly moving are constantly reevaluating them.
And as we look to establish the correct level of reserves to the block we're going to continually reevaluate them.
And it's hard to look at any one moment in time and say explicitly where they are.
But like I said we can only give you the best transparency we give you the indicators that we see out there and how those are evolving over time.
And that's what we'll continue to do with you quarter in and quarter out.
And that's our best read that we have as we sit here in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> And Rick can you comment on the -- I believe the last time you all took a charge in 2011 there was a difference between stat and GAAP and you equalized those 2.
What is that difference today in the reserve levels? Sure Tom.
Actually it changed over time as they do but I will give you a number probably safely say it's north of $500 million and why it sits out there today.
So that will be the differential today.
It's a little bit north of that and that will change over time.
But there is some differential between our stat and our GAAP books today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what's the latest update on if there is a strengthening what kind of timing? Is it still a few years away potentially? Or is there any way to get timing clarity around that? I think I'd take you back Tom to what I just told you which is there's a lot of pieces and they're moving constantly.
It's hard to give you clarity around the timing.
It's because those dynamics are constantly changing.
So I probably would just leave it at that that we'll continue to reevaluate it and continue to give you some views on that.
But particular to the interest rate piece I think that we go through ups and downs in the interest rate cycle.
And the original guidance we gave you back in 2011 still is pretty reasonable in terms of how we look at it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a comment about not fully investing right now.
How should we think about that? I guess interest rates remain a bit low.
Should we consider or should we expect you all to have that same strategy for the next few quarters if rates remain low? Is there going to be a point at which if it goes on long enough that you'll start more fully investing? Sure Tom.
When we think about investing this is actually something we did exactly how it played out last year as well where there wasn't a good selection of assets.
And sometimes it's rates sometimes it's actually supply.
So there's a lot of reasons why we wouldn't put our money fully to work.
The dynamics look similarly today.
If you look at last year as an example we've got it all to work by the end of the second quarter.
So how's that going to play out in the course of this year? I can't really tell you today.
But our team looks at it very carefully and we are in constant conversation about when to put money to work and when to sit on it and wait for what we think will be a better environment.
A lot of dynamics going to that conversation as they are right now but I can't give you much more than that as we look out to the second and third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just my last question.
Would you -- I know you had mentioned statutory earnings were a little bit lower this quarter.
Is the full year expectation still roughly the same as it's been in terms of statutory? And was there anything in particular weighing on results in 1Q? Tom the statutory results in 1Q were a little bit lighter but I'd put you within a range.
Last year if you went to first quarter they were actually a lot better than we thought.
So in stat we will see more volatility but that doesn't change our outlook in terms of where we think our stat results can come in.
And importantly it doesn't change our views around what our capital management programs look like.
So although we see the volatility we'll continue to watch it but we don't read across anything to the full year yet.
We'll take our next question from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick ones.
Most has been answered already.
In the U.K.
I was just -- I was interested in whether you could give us some sense for the order of magnitude as you think about the pricing today on the group life side cases that you're actually willing to write relative to the pricing say perhaps 3 or 4 years ago when you sort of cited that you are maybe a little bit -- a bit overly competitive.
Peter do want to pick up on that one? Again I think it's just -- it's a matter of just looking back as John said about just the pricing environment a couple years ago versus how you're sort of viewing it today and what -- where we're playing and where we're not playing.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'm trying to get a sense.
Is that 20% higher pricing or 100% higher pricing? It's in the 10% to 15% higher pricing I would say.
So -- whereas -- where you're writing pricing around about your cost of capital are slightly below even when you got pushed on competitive.
We're now pushing for more of where we feel comfortable a good return on that business is.
And so it's low-teen double-digit increase that kind of thing.
I think the challenge -- what you've seen on the life book is -- so as you shrink the book clearly that gives you some -- a little bit of expense pressure.
But we're more than happy that we're balancing that with a margin increase.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And John as you know the group life business tends to be pretty price sensitive from a customer point of view and you have far less ability to start differentiating your offering with service and claims processes and things like that.
So those may seem like relatively small percentages but they can swing business quite a bit.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know.
I understand Tom.
That's helpful though.
On the U.S.
group disability side we actually saw a couple of players in that market increase their discount rates this past quarter.
I guess it doesn't really make a whole lot of sense given what we've seen on the rate side on the interest rate side or yield side but did you guys make any adjustments to discount rates? Or do you expect to make any? Rick? Sure John.
Yes when you look at our discount rates it's something that we manage over a period of time.
We did not make any adjustments this quarter.
And we look at how we're investing money relative to the portfolio and you've seen us over the last several years manage that carefully.
To give you a sense our margin between our asset yields and our liabilities is still 90 basis points very consistent with where it's been.
So we manage that all together and do it.
And I would tell you it is -- we did see it on the net investment income side.
It is a challenging environment and that line feels it.
But we also have the ability to price for it to manage it and work through it.
So it's not a new story for us.
It's how we continue to manage it.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know.
I certainly appreciate your commentary on the new money investment side.
I think we're starting to see some companies maybe stretch for yield and it certainly seems like you guys are being more conservative on that front.
The last question for you maybe for Rick you had sort of mentioned that you've got this 2015 debt maturity I think it's just shy of $300 million that you've maybe already repurchased some of that.
Can you just give us maybe a bit more detail on what's going on there? Sure.
We actually had about $300 million that was issued out of the U.K.
It's part of -- they're not directly linked but it's part of our issuance we did.
We chose to actually tender for half of that.
So that's actually in the process of being done.
So that will happen probably in the mid-May time frame a little bit later in the month.
So you'll see that come through.
We're actually paying to make a hole [ph] as part of that so there will be debt extinguishment costs.
But because this was U.K.
debt we also had currency hedges on.
And so as we removed that there was a gain associated with that.
So they will be in a couple of different line items in our income statement but those 2 roughly equate -- kind of thinking the $10 million to $15 million range on both sides of the equation netting close to 0.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So you'll get a head start on sort of interest expense coming down as a result of this? That's correct.
We'll go next to Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Just to head back to Closed Block LTC was there an element of the improvement in the interest adjusted benefit ratio that was attributable to group LTC? We actually saw improvement in both individual and group so yes.
Okay.
It's my understanding when a state approves a rate increase and the carrier goes to the policyholder that they get 3 options.
They can either pay the increased rate they can keep their old rate with reduced benefit or lapse.
And with individual policyholders I think carriers have found that overwhelmingly the policyholders will pay the higher rate.
Is that the same dynamic that you've seen in the group market? It's a little different in the group market in that the premiums first of all are a lot lower.
Our average premium in the group market is $400 versus like $2 000 in the individual.
We are probably seeing more buydowns in nonforfeiture options in the group market than we see in the individual and that tends to be positive from a reserve development perspective.
Right.
And so I guess is that something that's sustainable? Or is that kind of a onetime benefit that you'll get maybe at the January 1 and July 1 renewal periods? Yes it will tend to spike in January and July when it happens.
It only happens when you're going through rate increases.
And so it will happen as long as we're continuing to implement group long-term care rate increases.
And we'll be doing that for a while because you implement them in the order that states approved on at the next anniversary.
And so there's -- we implemented the first batch of state approvals this year but there are other batches that will be emerging next year as well.
We'll go next to Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question about Colonial.
You've had a lot better sales results over the last couple of quarters than one of your main competitors despite probably facing similar headwinds in regards to health care reform uncertainties.
So it begs the question are you seeing any change in buyer behavior? And what I mean by that is is there a shift -- has there been a shift in preference towards using brokers which is your main distribution avenue versus say using career agents [indiscernible] for these products? All right.
Ryan just to clarify as you know we really have 2 pathways into the voluntary benefit business.
Certainly the Unum US pathway sales primarily through brokers and consultants.
As you know the offering we bring to market there is a more comprehensive full offering of group voluntary and executive benefit.
The other avenue certainly is the Colonial offering where we actually market a more limited set of voluntary benefit products but those go through agents.
And the agent may choose to actually use the broker.
And so I just want to clarify we've got sort of 2 avenues into the voluntary marketplace.
We consciously chose to keep those 2 avenues because they actually complement one another as we come to market and in our mind actually give us a much broader array of choice in the marketplace everything from the very small employer to the very large employer and in the public sector as well.
So sort of with that backdrop maybe Randy -- maybe -- is it worth talking a little bit about what you're seeing actually from the broker side of things? Absolutely.
Well let me emphasize first of all that we are continuing to stay focused on our agency distribution system.
We do not have different distribution channels here at Colonial Life.
Again our focus is on our career agency system.
As they move up market there typically will be a broker involved.
And so we work with brokers through our agency system in a partnership manner.
Really not seeing any big shifts in that.
I mean there certainly are growing opportunities as employees are given more and more responsibility for their benefits.
And we're seeing more and more brokers interested in getting into the voluntary space Ryan.
So we're very optimistic and feel like the way to go is to keep focused on our agency system and have them work effectively with brokers.
Mike would you like to add a little bit of that from your market perspective? Yes just to echo Randy's point we definitely see the increased interest amongst brokers.
I don't know about the switch amongst employers going more towards accessing the benefits through the broker but the brokers' interest.
As they've seen some of their revenues capped from a health care perspective they are looking for ways to build out their client relationships and diversify revenue.
That drives interest in voluntary.
To give you a little bit of a sense Ryan over 1/3 of our new sales in the first quarter came on an integrated group in DB basis.
So we're seeing that same advisor bring multiple product solutions.
That's also driving good interest in our executive benefits or IDI product line as well.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then just one quick follow-up.
You talked about M&amp;A a little bit in the past.
I know generally there hasn't been a lot going on or a lot available in your markets.
But wondering are there any additional lines of business that you guys would be interested in longer term say something like medical stop loss that may benefit from more demand from health care reform? Rick do you want to just touch the overall M&amp;A strategy? Yes Ryan.
Let me just give you a view.
It's probably not going to be different -- significantly different than what we've seen although the market is active.
I think the M&amp;A markets in general across the insurance space are active out there.
When you get more specific to our lines of business people still tend to like their benefits business and are not avid sellers.
When you get to product line we have a good product set.
So we're pretty well filled out across the board but we'll continue to entertain things that fit within our strategic sweet spot at the -- working at the employer to provide protection benefits.
And then I'd also remind you that we look around the world as well.
So it's not just different lines we have in the U.S.
there's different geographies which we'll be seeing similar dynamics of what we have today.
So we're quite active out there in looking in terms of different opportunities.
But the M&amp;A markets I think within our lines particular business probably have not changed that much as you look over the last several years.
Good.
Thanks Ryan.
Well it looks like we've actually exhausted our questions.
So thank you all for taking the time to join us this morning and we look forward to seeing many of you at various investor conferences and events this spring.
And operator this will complete our first quarter 2014 earnings call.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Unum's second quarter earnings results conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Senior Vice President-Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead sir.
Great thank you Danny.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the second quarter 2014 earnings conference call for Unum.
Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and also Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2013 and our subsequently filed Form 10-Q.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investor section of our website at unum.com.
I remind you that the statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found in our statistical supplement on our website in the Investors section.
So participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen President and CEO; and Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; as well as the CEOs of our business segments Mike Simonds for Unum US Peter O'Donnell for Unum UK Randy Horn for Colonial Life and Jack McGarry for the Closed Block.
And now I will turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Tom?  Thank you Tom and good morning everybody.
I am very pleased with our overall performance for the quarter with operating earnings per share increasing 11% to $0.91 per share and for the first half of the year operating earnings per share grew at 9.9% which is at the upper-end of our outlook we provided for you for 2014 of 5% to 10%.
Importantly to our book value per share excluding AOCI continues to grow and increased 9.1% year-over-year to $33.80 a share.
Now I think there are three key takeaways for the quarter which Rick will just address further in his comments.
First all three of our core business segments; Unum US Colonial Life and Unum UK continued to produce strong results and higher year-over-year operating earnings in the second quarter.
Each of these business segments is generating consistent solid margins and as a Group generated an operating return on equity of 15% for the quarter which is also at the upper-end of the outlook as we provided for 2014.
I should add too that our overall results for the Closed Block were strong as well.
Second as I mentioned earlier operating earnings per share grew this quarter by around 11%.
What's more important to me though is the balance we saw in the quarter between operating performance and the impact of our share repurchase activities.
This quarter our after-tax operating earnings increased 7.5% and our capital management or share repurchase activities added 3.5% to our quarterly earnings per share growth rate.
I like this balance and this is the balance we are seeking over the longer term.
And lastly we saw very strong sales at improved premium growth throughout much of the company.
I am very confident that these results have not come at the expense of profitability but instead reflect the strength of our brand and the quality of our offering and people.
At the halfway point in the year we are generally within or above the outlook for 2014 sales and premium growth we provided last year.
So in summary the second quarter was a strong one for the Company.
All of our businesses have showed solid year-over-year improvement.
Our stronger level of operating earnings growth along with our share repurchase activities give us real operating leverage.
And we are seeing excellent profitable top line growth opportunities which we are expecting to carry into the second half of the year.
Now I will turn things over to Rick for a more thorough review of operating results.
Rick?  Thank you Tom.
Our second quarter results were quite good as we reported operating earnings per share of $0.91 up 11% from last year.
We saw good underlying growth in our after-tax operating earnings which accounted for roughly two-thirds of our operating EPS growth.
We will continue to focus on driving growth in operating earnings.
And our second quarter performance continued to build off of the favorable trends we've seen emerging over the past several quarters.
This growth will be additive to our underlying earnings growth per share that is generated as we steadily decrease shares outstanding.
Looking first at Unum US operating earnings increased 2.2% year-over-year driven primarily by favorable experience in the Group Life and AD&amp;D line.
Group Life and AD&amp;D produced a strong quarter with $61.6 million in operating income up 7.5% on favorable risk experience and premium growth of just over 3%.
Our supplemental and voluntary line reported operating income of $83.6 million for the quarter basically flat with the year-ago quarter and operating income in our Group disability business increased slightly to $73.6 million from $73 million a year ago.
Premium income was essentially flat this quarter which is an improved result from the small declines we experienced over the prior two quarters as we are seeing better sales trends and continued stable persistency.
Net investment income continues to reflect the impact of the low interest rate environment.
Interest reserve margins remained solid well above our targeted levels at 91 basis points but lower asset yields continued to pressure net investment income for this line.
Importantly our benefit ratio in group disability continued to improve with the ratio declining to 81.9% this quarter from 83.9% a year ago as the underlying experience showed stable claim incidence trends and continued favorable claim recovery performance.
Looking forward we expect the stable level of earnings from group disability with some slight improvements in the benefit ratio and premium growth offset by some ongoing pressure from net investment income given the low rate environment.
We expect our profit margins in this line to remain strong among the highest in the industry.
Overall it was a solid quarter for Unum US and the segment ROE stood strong at 14%.
Moving to Unum UK operating earnings were £23.6 million for the second quarter 8% higher than the second quarter 2013 and generally consistent with our expectations.
Our Group Life results are much improved and reflect the aggressive pricing and repositioning activities of the past several quarters.
Group disability results were improved this quarter and our overall benefit ratio was 74% compared to 84% in the year-ago quarter.
Our margins for the UK have actually improved back to the mid-20% area which generates about an 18% of return on equity.
Colonial Life generated another very strong quarter at $75.3 million compared to $71.1 million a year ago.
We saw a steady consistent risk experience across its business lines generating a benefit ratio of 52% in line with the benefit ratio from last year.
The underlying profitability of this business remains excellent producing an operating ROE of 17% for the quarter.
And rounding out the enterprise the Closed Block also had an unusually strong second quarter with operating income of $37.3 million driven in large part by very favorable results in long-term care and higher miscellaneous net investment income.
The interest adjusted benefit ratio for the LTC line continued to run favorably at 80.8% for the second quarter primarily reflecting a lower level of claim incidence rates.
We generally expect the LTC interest adjusted benefit ratio to be in the range of 85% to 90% and the first half benefit ratio was 82.8% and has performed better relative to that expectation.
The interest adjusted benefit ratio for the Closed Disability Block showed some negative volatility this quarter at 89.4% due to higher claim incidence levels and unfavorable mortality partially offset by favorable claim recoveries.
The age of these closed blocks subject them to more quarterly volatility and in this quarter it ran favorably for long term care but negatively for our disability line.
So now moving on to our sales and growth trends across the Company we are particularly pleased this quarter with the results we are seen.
In Unum US total sale increased by 40% in the second quarter a sharp jump from the year-ago quarter when we were seeing the worst of the disruptive impact of healthcare reform on our market and our customers.
When we look at the longer-term view of sales going back to 2011 this quarter's results get us back on the trend line of growth in the mid-single digits a more normal sustainable level of sales growth.
Within our Group benefit lines long-term disability short-term disability and group life total sales increased by 50% with 40% growth in the core market and 80% in large-case market much of which was driven by sales to existing customers.
Our voluntary benefit sales also increased by about 20% in the quarter with a good mix of sales in the core market and large-case segments.
These are large increases across the board but to give you context from a profitability perspective of the $53 million of growth that we saw half is coming from existing customers and another quarter from sales to new core market customers which is our most profitable business.
In addition to the strong sales persistency for our Unum US employee benefits lines remained strong at 89% for the quarter.
Bring it all together premium growth for Unum US was up 2.3% for the quarter and we believe we are starting to see some of the benefit from better overall employment trends.
Also at Colonial Life we saw very good sales again this quarter an increase of 7.7% overall with positive contributions from both new accounts and existing accounts.
We also saw better trends in our core commercial markets with quarterly sales growth approaching 9% in the under 1 000 life market.
Results in the large-case commercial and the public sector markets were also favorable this quarter largely with growth coming from new accounts.
Persistency remained slightly lower relative to the first half of 2013 but overall premium income increased by 3% which is in line with our expectation of 2% to 4% for Colonial Life.
And finally in the UK sales were down about 11% in the quarter to £12.6 million.
Much of the decline is in the group life market down 29% probably due to the competitive pricing conditions in our own actions as we carefully priced this book of business.
The pipeline does tell us that we should see this improve in the second half of the year.
Disability sales were essentially flat with the year-ago quarter at $9 million.
Persistency in the UK is trending higher but remains below our longer-term expectations premium income in total increased by about 2% for the quarter.
So overall we are pleased with the growth trends in the Company and equally pleased with the pricing on the business that we're selling today.
We feel we have largely moved past the disruptions brought on by healthcare reform initiatives though some evidence of that disruption still remain to the very small end of the market.
Also we are beginning to see some evidence of the improved top line growth from better employment trends.
It is certainly nowhere near the pre-recession levels but a welcome trend nonetheless.
Now looking at the investment portfolio the credit quality of our portfolio remains in excellent shape no changes there and the watch list of potential problems continues to be very low.
The decline in interest rates and the spread compression once again this quarter make for a challenging investment environment.
We continue to look for the best opportunities in the investment markets and for the best relative value among the asset categories we have historically focused on.
We are experiencing some near-term pressure on our investment income and product portfolio yields relative to our expectations similarly to what we have seen over the past several quarters.
Our investment team continues to perform well and we remain disciplined in how we manage through this low-rate environment.
Moving to a capital update the weighted average risk-based capital for our traditional US life insurance companies remain consistent at approximately 401% and our holding Company cash and marketable securities was $616 million at quarter-end.
Our statutory operating earnings of $171 million are within our range of expectations and improved over the level of the first quarter this year.
Following the first quarter issuance of $350 million of 10 year notes at a 4% coupon in the second quarter where we retired $145 million of the debt issues scheduled to mature in November 2015 which was issued out of our UK holding company.
As a result there are two non-operating earnings that basically offset each other in the quarter debt extinguishment costs of $10.4 million after tax and a currency hedge gain related to that debt of $10.5 million after tax so no impact on this quarter's net income.
Also we continually and steadily buy back our shares with the capital we are generating another $100 million for the quarter which keeps us on pace with our $300 million to $600 million range for the full year.
I would also note that our Board of Directors approved an increase in our dividend rate of 14% during the second quarter which is the 6th year with a double-digit dividend increase.
Wrapping up I would also affirm that our 2014 outlook for growth and operating earnings per share remains in a range of 5% to 10%.
In fact most of the trends we have experienced thus far in 2014 are in line if not at the higher end of our 2014 outlook for sales premium growth and our ROE expectations.
A strong first half of the year and we like the trends we are seeing as we head into the second half.
And now I will turn it back to Tom for his closing comments.
Before we move to your questions I'll close by just reiterating some of the things that were said before but certainly we have a very strong start to the first half of the year.
Our focus remains on continuing to grow our business while maintaining strong margins through disciplined pricing underwriting and expense management.
We expect to continue to generate excess capital and we will continue to balance the deployment of that capital with the needs of the business opportunities we see in the market place and returning capital to our shareholders through our share repurchase and dividend actions.
Now this completes our prepared remarks and Danny let's move to the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from Suneet Kamath with UBS Capital Markets.
I wanted to start with the Individual Disability Close Block.
Rick I think in your comments you talked about the elevated benefit ratios as maybe normal fluctuations.
But have you dug in to the Block to see if there's anything that's jumping out there?  Actually as we look at the Individual Disability Block and I try to reference our remarks we saw some elements which we surely attribute to volatility things around mortality and incidence levels that we haven't seen in some time.
So it does not look like a trend.
Certainly it's something we would watch but we would very much chuck that up to volatility in that line of business.
And we have dug into that yes.
And then I don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves but if we look at the sales growth now over the past three quarters it has been generally pretty strong -- and I'm talking Unum US and Colonial combined.
So as we think about 2015 I think your 2014 guidance for premiums was relatively flattish for both of those segments maybe a little bit stronger in Colonial Life but how should we be thinking about the impact of these sales on your expectations for premium growth in 2015?  Yes good strong sales in the quarter.
Feel good about how the strategy is meeting the market seeking to broaden our relationships with existing clients and grow our employee pay business.
Our sales and client management folks are doing a terrific job.
Our turnover in both those roles is at historic lows.
And so we feel really good about how we are meeting the market.
That being said in the pure second quarter we have a little bit of an anomaly in the year-over-year growth metric but Unum US was up 40%.
That was again as you will recall probably the low point in terms of market activity that we'd experienced in the second quarter of last year.
And so one of the things we do is look at it skip over '13 and look back to 2012 where we experienced growth of about 12% or 13%.
So a little bit of an anomaly.
To your question about looking forward I would expect those comparables will get a little bit more difficult when it comes to sales growth in the third and the fourth quarter.
2Q was really last year the low point.
We saw it sort of flattened out in terms of sales growth and then start to improve to your point in the fourth quarter and the first quarter of this year.
So certainly with the combination of building sales momentum probably closer in the second half of the year to the guidance that we issued last year around 7% to 10%.
Combined with strong persistency levels that we are experiencing we would start to see earned premium probably to the high-end of the guidance and then probably a tick or two better than that next year.
Yes.
We feel real good about our sales momentum at this point.
We are coming in really right within our target range for the year which we established at 4 to 7%.
We think that's going to lead to good premium growth performance again right around our targeted range of 2 to 4% growth here in 2014.
So if we can keep this momentum going which we feel optimistic about Suneet there is no reason why we shouldn't be in our targeted growth ranges moving forward and possibly even in the upper-end of those ranges.
Again we had a range of 2 to 4% premium growth this year over the next couple of years that was moving up more in the 3 to 5% range and we feel our trend line is pointing us in that direction.
And then hey it's for Randy just a quick follow-up on Colonial Aflac US has obviously been going through some issues in terms of their field force so maybe two-part question.
One is that having any impact on your business in terms of additional opportunities? And second can you maybe talk about how you managed your field force because it doesn't seem that you're having nearly the same issues as they are? Thanks.
Especially with that last question about how we're managing that sales force it might be good just for me to make a very brief comment just about how we are structured actually.
Because I think you're right there are different people in the markets who have different ways about going about the business.
So I think as everybody knows we have really two avenues into the voluntary market.
So in the Unum US the avenue is very important to us because voluntary provides -- allows us to have a very integrated offering of Group individual and voluntary products in the marketplace.
We actually market those to brokers and consultants.
And so that brand is distributed in the market in a very different way than Randy's business for example because Colonial has a more narrow voluntary benefit offering in the marketplace but that's sold through agents.
The agents may ultimately use a broker but the agent controls that business.
And so from the Group point of view we have two very good brands two very different ways to come to market and its proven to be very very successful for us over the years.
In fact if you take those two businesses and look at just the results last quarter our total VB sales were actually up 11% across Unum US and Colonial businesses.
And so that's a pretty strong performance.
It's up 8% actually for the year.
And if you look at the last three years by having this sort of two-pronged approach to the marketplace as a combined business the growth rates range from 2 to say 8% over that period of time.
So we had steady growth each and every year.
I just want to give that piece of context because we go to the market a little differently from some others by having two brands and two distribution systems and they are very powerful.
They give us a lot of access to different markets.
They complement one another.
And that's proven to be a good formula for us.
So with that Randy you want to pick up a little bit on just the Colonial part of the story.
First of all Suneet in terms of opportunities coming from the Aflac side of things I of course can't speak to the specifics of what they are doing but they are undergoing a lot of change in their agency distribution system.
And so yes in the short-term that does create opportunities for any competitor.
In terms of the management of our agency system and how we go about things just to give you the short story and it is really a fairly simple story Suneet we are maintaining a very consistent focus on our agency distribution system.
And this is the channel that we use to go to market both in terms of direct sales on the smaller-end of the market and then having our agents partner with brokers as they move up market.
So through this approach we really avoid any type of channel conflict and we have been very focused on that approach for a long long time.
Secondly just gets back to sound execution of the fundamentals of our business; recruiting reps and managers upping the quality level of that recruitment effort developing our agents effectively growing the number of producing agents and sales managers and seeing very very good results from that at the present time.
We are seeing increased activity levels more appointments occurring with the employers a good surge in the number of closed cases that type of thing.
And lastly we are seeing the market environment improving.
So that's helping us.
As Rick said we are seeing gradual continued improvement in the economy still some pressure on the real small end of it but that's loosening up as well.
I think most employers as Rick said are putting the Affordable Care Act implementation behind them and that has really led to more new accounts being open for us sales and product lines to complement the changes that employers are making in their medical plans such as our Medical Bridge product critical illness accident on and so forth.
So it's really led to an environment Suneet a very broad based sales growth and we are optimistic about reaching our targeted sales growth for the year based on what we're seeing.
And we will take our next question from Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Intrigued to hear you say you are starting to see some of the benefit from better overall employment trends.
What do you think that means in terms of I think you talked about the natural growth rate how much has it ticked up so far and where could it go?   So we would have seen through the recession -- actually a headwind there where we saw contractions in the order of 1 to 2% I'd say over the last four quarters or so.
That leveled out to a push up a little bit in the quarter down a little bit in the quarter and now I think through the first half of this year we've actually started to see that move into positive range and think in terms of a percentage point or so.
We are optimistic.
Our business plans don't center on the assumption but we're optimistic that we will continue to see that build slowly.
It plays out in natural growth to our book-of-business as our premiums lever on hiring trends and salary increases that premium comes in at very low acquisition cost which is terrific.
Also at play is the attitude towards benefits.
So as some of the slack comes out of the labor market we are seeing clients with a little bit of a better attitude towards improving benefits plans perhaps adding a new benefit or two and so that's showing up in our MBOC results as well.
So not likely to accelerate rapidly but a gradual improvement over the last couple of quarters.
And then the sales overall this quarter understanding that you had an easier comp but still for that you had excellent growth.
Was there an adjustment in pricing strategy? Obviously your benefits ratios have been improving.
Did you take that more into account when you were putting up proposals this quarter? It just seems like there was more of a step function that I am curious as to what drove that?  Mike you want to take that? And also as part of just (inaudible) I think you dissected -- we dissected the sales in the quarter where that sales are coming from is a good sort of indicator of that whole pricing environment actually.
So just to hit the question directly first and then speak to the mix of sales overall.
Orientation around pricing is very consistent and actually has been for an extended period of time.
We actually feel pretty good in each of our lines of business about having the market share that we do having blocks the size that we do yield some pretty good insights around where prices need to move up a bit where we can afford to come down a bit but the aggregate level has actually moved not much at all.
And looking at the quality of the business it's one of those quarters where everything broke our way across segments and products which is good to see.
But if you look at the strategy we are very focused on building out the breadth of the relationships we have with the clients that know us and that appreciate the Unum brand.
So 62% of all of our new sales came from those existing relationships that's important.
We see two points or three points more favorable pricing from a line that's added to an existing relationship.
We know that as we build out the relationship it drives persistency in future period and that's very important to us through the renewal program.
One of the key drivers certainly was large case.
And just to put that into perspective if we look at large case it actually feel good about where that business is.
It was up 80% in the quarter.
But if you look at the last 12 quarters seven times we've been up five times we've been down and we really don't get too caught up in what happens quarter-to-quarter we look at the aggregate long-term trend.
ROE in that business is actually very comparable now to our core business and we started to see a leveling of the earned premium which is great and will bode well for earned premium going forward.
So feel actually very good about the mix and the quality of the business that's coming in.
Sorry one more follow-up.
The 62% from existing relationships what was it in Q1?  Well that would've been actually just a tick lower 61% last quarter.
And we will take our next question from Erik Bass with Citibank.
Please go ahead.
Just following up on a couple of the last questions I guess in the group market we have seen several competitors that continue to face the margin pressure and appear to be either pulling back or raising prices.
So has this resulted in either less competition or provided a little bit of a price umbrella for you to ramp up growth?  Certainly it remains a competitive market.
At any given point in time there is going to be some carriers that are retrenching and trying to improve profitability and in others there's going to be carriers that are trying to extend share.
That being said on balance I would say it is a pricing environment that is slightly improved over prior year.
While I couldn't speak to any particularly competitor our best insight is that the industry when it comes to Group insurance is currently running at a mid-single digit ROE which would suggest there is some work to be done and I think we're starting to see the benefit of that in a little bit of a firmer pricing environment.
As we look forward again so we're sort of cautiously optimistic that the market will firm or continue to firm up a bit.
But we also recognize that as you come around the corner and you're headed towards the second half of the year it is not easy always to maintain that pricing discipline in the face of decreased sales and so it's somewhat of an open question as to whether industry players will stick their guns when it comes to improving the margins of their book of business.
And you mentioned the sales to existing clients.
What products are they adding? Is it a move to adding more voluntary products? And how much additional opportunity do you see the cross-sell? Is keeping it in that 60% range of sales of reasonable target?  Yes.
Great question.
We actually think we've got a pretty long runway there.
So if you think about Unum we have built a very broad franchise primarily around disability insurance.
So we've got a large number of important clients where we've got a line or two lines in-force and we feel like absolutely voluntary is a huge opportunity.
Over a third of all our new voluntary sales are coming in on in-force group relationships.
We see the individual disability which is typically a supplemental sale for higher earners that's a big opportunity for us.
And then actually even within traditional life insurance we a see nice opportunity for our voluntary supplemental plans that sit on top of perhaps an employer-funded base.
So really across the Board we see a pretty long runway and a big opportunity to drive additional growth.
We will take our next question from Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Wanted to start off with a question on capital generation I noticed that -- I think if I backtrack in that part of the $150 million of debt repurchase and the equity or the share repurchases and so on I think it gets to roughly $100 million of excess capital generated this quarter.
And I want to see if my math is correct and if so why it's a little bit late compared to the $550 million to $650 annual run rate that you guided to?  It's a good question on our capital generation and I think this quarter we saw a good you've to go back to our statutory earnings which actually were back on track that we have seen over many many quarters on average which is right around $170 million and you would note as well that's up off of what was a lighter quarter in the first quarter.
So you have to take that into account first.
As you look at the excess generation that we have we continue to generate at a clip that I would expect overall.
You have to take out of that I think we're trying to do that take out of that some of the work with debt issuance and repurchase and all the different pieces.
But if you do take those different pieces out we feel very good about our generation where that lands and our ability to redeploy that.
So you would have seen in the quarter that we actually bought back $100 million of our stock.
We feel good that we're continuing to retire some of our shares.
And in conjunction you would have seen our dividend increase that we did as well.
So we go through and you could reconcile the numbers a lot of different ways but I would say very much that our capital generation plans are on track and very consistent with what we would have talked about last year at investor day and how we look for the rest of the year.
Okay.
I guess I'm still little confused because I guess if I take out the $100 million in buyback $37 million dividends $35 million interests I get to the $505 million remaining and then ultimately you came at $616 million.
So I guess that means about $100 million of excess cash generation.
Again it seems a little low relative what you had guided to on an annual basis.
So I'd add one add in there but I'd not spend the time on this call to go through it.
We could take you offline with that.
But add in the UK capital generation as well which has been very consistent over a period of time.
But we're happy to take you through that offline Yaron.
And then switching gears to long-term care clearly you had a good quarter there yet one of your competitors seem to have to run into some trouble there and is reviewing assumptions just want to hear your thoughts on as you look at your legacy book and the older vintages what you are seeing there and how comfortable you are with results there? Yes.
We had a very favorable quarter in the second quarter.
We also reported a favorable quarter in the first quarter driven by favorable submitted new claims both the incidence rate was favorable as well as the severity with good claim resolutions during the quarter.
So we really didn't see some of the things that perhaps some of our competitors saw in the quarter.
I'd note that it's a small immature block.
It's going to be volatile.
We don't -- we aren't changing our long-term outlook of a loss ratio in the 85 to 90% range but it was just -- was a good quarter.
It's good to see it.
It's good to put it in the bank.
And we continue to very aggressively manage and monitor the block going forward.
And we will take our next question from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Mostly asked and answered but I do want to go back to the sales in Group DI.
I understand ACA or whatever and maybe that has something to do with it although I find it hard to believe.
But just my question is why 2Q? Usually things are very very flat.
There is not -- in my sense there's not a whole lot of activity flat between 1Q and 2Q and all the big activity happens in 4Q.
That's where you tend to see the surge in business being done.
So is there anything to say about why now?  Yes sure.
I mean I think maybe one of the things that you're getting to Steven is right.
So fourth quarter is going to be the biggest quarter from a sales perspective in group insurance because that's when you're one-one decisions are sorted.
And so actually you'll see a little less volatility I find in the fourth quarter because the volume is bigger.
And so second quarter not being the largest from historical pattern quarterly seasonality being the biggest quarter you are subject to more volatility.
And that's where I think we saw was not our biggest sales quarter.
A number of things broke our way and when that happens I think good things can happen.
So seven ones are the primary - July 1 effective date for the primary group sales that are getting submitted in the second quarter here.
Again strategically feel very good about where those sales are coming through.
But because it's a smaller sales quarter it is subject to a bit more volatility.
And we will take our next question from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong>  The 26% I think effective tax rate in the quarter Rick what should we be thinking about as it relates to the tax rate for the remainder of the year?  Actually John we would say calculate right out of 30%.
So we may be moving some of the non-operating items in and out that are -- Agee &amp; Leach</strong>  Oh maybe I did.
Okay.
That's fairly --  30% that's our expectation for the year.
So it's tracking very much for our expectations.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong>  Okay.
And you mentioned miscellaneous investment income maybe a little bit high in the Closed Block.
And overall was there anything notable in miscellaneous investment income relative to sort of the run rate in the last several quarters?  No I think that when you look at it on average it was maybe a tick or two higher than normal but nothing that was out of a reasonable range of expectations.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong>  Okay.
And then just an overall question on guidance.
Yes I recognize maybe we all recognize that there has got to be some allowance for volatility in underwriting results and that sort of thing but clearly some real strength in the first half of the year.
Even the upper-end of your full-year 10% EPS growth suggests the back-half of the year would be a lower earnings period relative to the first half.
Affirm the guidance instead of maybe slightly raising the range.
I am just wondering if you guys have contemplated that and if you had and decided against raising the range what was the key reasons?  Certainly I'll split that into two parts for you John.
One is how we think about it from our process perspective; our outlook.
As we talked about a number of our things we have seen here we really do refer back to what we're doing last year and we looked at 5 to 10% and it will be very unlikely that we would change that unless we saw something taking that out of the range through the first half of the year.
So I don't want to discount.
We're very happy with our first half results.
We've had some things that went in our favor certainly.
But there's nothing as we look to the back-half of the year that I am overly concerned about and in bringing that down.
But it's just almost from our process perspective we wouldn’t necessarily adjust that unless we saw something taking us outside that range.
Our next question comes from Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
The first question is on group disability.
Your performance there continues to be quite strong especially relative to peers with the benefit ratio now sub-82%.
Can you comment at all -- I am sure you've looked across the industry to decipher broader trends.
But can you comment at all about why you think your book has performed so differently because I think virtually everyone else in the industry has seen some level of deterioration.
And the one thing that comes to mind for me is you have consistently flagged better claim recoveries and maybe that's where you're outperforming but anyway any help on that would be appreciated.
And let me actually take it (inaudible) Tom but then actually ask Mike to speak to it in more detail.
But sometimes we try to get too cute about what distinguishes us from everybody else.
I think as you know we've prided ourselves for the last six or eight years around a very disciplined approach to the business.
And that's word gets oftentimes overused.
But I think it's very important here because we have a very disciplined plan of attack for all of our businesses we have very disciplined pricing and underwriting in all of our businesses.
And as you know if we look over a longer period that means at times we haven't grown as fast as some of our competitors actually have grown because we put a higher priority on margin and manageability and risk management frankly than some have done.
So I think to a degree just as Mike makes his comment I think as an overall institution.
We've put a lot of priority on the importance of disciplines staying focused and being sure we incent people to do the right things as it relates to those things.
So there is certainly probably some nuances about why we can do a little better but I would say first and foremost it's that disciplined approach to the marketplace I think that frankly all of our businesses benefit from.
And Mike want to pick up on that little bit?  And so just to build on Tom's point what you would've seen from us over the last several years is earn premium that's relatively flat to a tick or two down in long-term visibility.
And I think part of that is the pricing discipline out there.
In the market it was good to see the segments start to grow just a little bit here but I think it is reflective of front-end acquisition pricing as well as on the backend.
And so even here in the second quarter strong sales but we continue to look through the Block.
On cases in the renewal program we achieved increases of the 6 to 8% range depending on whether you're talking about core or large-case where we've had strong persistency 89%.
The business that's turned has come off and has been performing at five points to eight points lower than the active blocks.
So it's a continuous active pruning process in terms of the pricing.
But then yes absolutely we sort of look at okay what are the investments that we've made in underwriting and then in benefits organization in general.
So to give you a little color LTD submitted incidence for instance was pretty much in line but a little bit volatile paid incidence was rock steady.
And so what actually comes through in terms of our liability acceptance rates in terms of paid incidence recovery trends what we've been able to achieve in terms of settlements and offsets all those operational metrics have been in line with expectation to slightly improve.
So again can't comment on any particular competitor but feel very good about the position of the block and what our anticipated trends would be going forward.
The next question is stat earnings looked solid.
Can you comment on a more consolidated enterprise-wide basis? How did they -- how were the captive results this quarter? I presume based on the performance at least the gap numbers on the Closed Block those probably were additive because just wanted to see what that adjustment would be that the 171.
When you think about our different captives that we have out there I think the one that I would note is Northwind was probably a little bit lighter this quarter but that goes back to what we saw from the individual disability results in our Closed Block.
So that's the only of note that I'd it was really off of from that perspective.
And as you know the capital results in there are for a very different operation and structure and everything else and so that's why we exclude it from our normal stat earnings and I think that's still appropriate.
And Rick did Northwind lose money this quarter and if so how much?  Yes.
I don't think I could quantify that at the moment but I think that it's going to be pretty breakeven I think is ultimately where it came down to.
Okay.
And I guess my last question is on long-term care which would be for Rick.
So the favorable claims that you're seeing right now and I know it's doing better than your longer-term expectations.
But if we assume that it continues to remain anywhere let's say couple of 100 basis points around this level does this -- would this get you out of harm's way with the potential risk of a GAAP balance sheet charge if you look out over the next few years? And I know the GAAP balance sheet issue is more -- I know there's a heavy-duty interest rate component to that.
But I just want to understand the sensitivities based on where we're trending right now and whether that might actually alleviate the need to strengthen GAAP.
Sure.
Tom when you think about the claim trends that we are seeing right now are certainly very good and much better than we would have seen a year ago.
The question is how do those influence our longer-term expectations around the block of business? And that's a little bit more challenging.
So if time is in dimension to that so instead if we continue to see this for a long period of time and becomes a trend that's certainly quite helpful.
But the question is how it would that inference our long-term trends.
And we're going through a process and that's where I take you back you highlighted another aspect that we obviously have to continue to look at.
Price increases continue to go well out there in the marketplace so I'd iterate that.
The liabilities of our book of business which include this claim trend that we're seeing right now pretty good happy about what we saw here in the second quarter.
And third piece is interest rate and interest rate is obviously continuing to be quite challenging.
So you take all those different pieces together we will continue to look at them and monitor them and work through that as we get closer to our year-end process.
And so Rick would an update on all that likely occur in 4Q of this year?  I think that's probably realistic.
We don't like to talk about the specific quarters because we reflect it as we know things.
But I think that fourth quarter traditionally has been where we've brought all that together in a comprehensive look.
And right not just this block but all the other blocks.
All of our blocks.
That's our normal processes as we get to closer to year-end.
And our next question comes from Christopher Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead sir.
In the UK I believe you noted you retained more the group life reinsurance program you had.
If that's the case just wondering what percentage of that program you recaptured? And where you think that could trend to now that it appears -- you've stabilized and improved the profitability there?  Yes.
So I'll take you back Chris to the process we went through actually two years ago and actually reinsuring the majority of the or I should say the half of that block of business and other bloodlines of business.
I think that was a good move.
We were seeing volatility at that time and we're going through re-pricing.
And so I think we're happy we did that.
At the beginning of this year we retained 25% of that.
So we actually recaptured a quarter of the block back.
As we get into year-end we will have to make those decisions in terms of where our pricing in the market is where our profitability levels are etc.
But I think the actions we've taken and the team in the UK have taken are very prudent to-date.
And we will evaluate that as we get closer to year-end.
Okay.
And then wondering what impact the strong sales growth is having on RBC strain? And if it's not that material just given the continued favorable trends you guys are seeing the potential for buybacks maybe to accelerate maybe towards that the top-end of the target you provided in December?  I'd like to have a discussion because as we see this growth I think that we've always said that the first thing we want to do with our capital is continue to grow our business.
And I think we're seeing that.
We are very happy about that.
The second piece of that is when does it become material to change our capital outlook and we're not near that yet.
So thinking about it from a premium perspective and the growth that we're seeing it's certainly something we will continue to update you on.
But that's something we'd like to see but we're not in the any point where we're changing our outlook around how we deploy capital in the near-term.
But that will be a great discussion to have if we continue to grow at a more rapid rate than even what we are seeing today from a premium perspective.
Okay.
Then last one don't even know if there's a discussion to be add here but for Jack any evolving thoughts or developments around potential reinsurance or risk reduction opportunities in long-term care? We continue to stay abreast of the market.
We continue to talk about it.
I don't think there's been a material change where the marketplace is.
Still a lot of interest in the asset side of long-term care and much less interest in the liability side of long-term care.
And so I think until we get more stability in the marketplace and those two views come closer together we will continue to do to look at it but it's not a short-term option right now.
Our next question comes from Seth Weiss with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I just wanted to again return to sales and maybe just baseline my understanding of what the outlook was and when you were talking about the strength in two quarters sales you spoke about anomaly in terms of the easy comps and skipping over 2013 and looking back to 2012 does that extend for the entire year's 7 to 10% sales growth? And the reason I ask is suppose if I was looking at this over just 2013 levels which was of course a lower sales year the 7 to 10% would imply I believe flat sales growth for the back-half of the year.
But if I am looking relative to a compounded rate of growth over 2012 which was obviously a higher rate of sales we are talking mid double digit growth in the back-half of the year.
So just trying to baseline what the expectations are?  So I we will run into tougher comparables as momentum picked up over the second half of last year and we talked about it earlier there is a lot of work to do between now and the end of the year we have 55 to 60% of the sales here yet to book.
So going to be a little bit cautious about making predictions but I would anticipate that we put guidance on the 7 to 10% for the year I think that's actually a reasonable guidance for the pure second half as well sort of in that mid-single digit approaching 10%; all that with the caveat that there is a lot of work to do.
And as we talked about numerous times part of the determination will be with the pricing environment out there because we will stay pretty consistent.
And if the market allows us to do that we will certainly take it if not we'll live with the lower number.
Okay.
So the full-year sales growth outlook though relative to 2013 at least in the US you would expect to exceed that 10% range?  I think it's right at the top of the range maybe a bit over it potentially; but again a lot of work to do between now and then.
So I think what you hear is a sense of optimism about the things that we can't control.
And I think that's where Mike is right to point to the fact that listen we've got some good pipeline activity underway.
We always do worry about a second half and competitors are behind sales plans that they do crazy things in the marketplace.
So please don't misconstrue anything we're saying for a lack of confidence in the second half.
We can't control what happens in the marketplace and we've seen times where people have done some crazy things when they get behind sales plans.
No that's helpful and was mainly looking to baseline expectations here.
And in terms of premium growth I think you also mentioned this year maybe to hit the upper-end of that range and next year maybe get a tick or two higher than the 2% premium growth.
Given a normal sales environment is that type of topline growth we should be looking for or as we look out farther in a normalized environment we see premium growth maybe a little more than 3%?  Yes.
Rick why don't you take that? Because I think maybe it's also a reminder.
I think you said it in your comments we try not to go back and redo the outlook sort of midpoint unless there something really significant going on.
But obviously our Investor Day meeting is a chance to recalibrate everything.
But maybe just talk about how (multiple speakers)  Yes.
And I think that the - actually well Seth we would look to recalibrate that as we continue to go.
And couple of things I'd highlight from the overall Mike said it very well as has Randy I think when you look at where we are our sales look good today.
Our competitiveness feels pretty good where we are today.
Importantly our persistency is holding very well and I think that's something we don't talk probably as much about but that's very good.
Our customers are certainly keeping us on the books.
And the last piece which is something we don't know yet today but I think we're giving you the indication that we are seeing better employment picture out there.
And that's the first time we really have done that.
And if all three of those things work in concert I think you will see some good premium numbers as we take you to our outlook at the end of the year.
Our next question comes from Colin Devine with Jefferies.
Please go ahead sir.
A couple of questions.
One if I think about the US business really for the last eight years if I look at the benefit ratio on a trailing 12 month basis and including this quarter it's been a very steady turn down.
And yet if I look at the expense ratio for the most part it's been fairly flat.
There's been some improvement but not a lot.
Is that something as you look ahead where you might be able to leverage technology to drive some change there? So that's one question.
Second for Rick with respect to capital I look at every one of the businesses the US UK Colonial all solid 15% at least the ROEs this quarter and yet we still got the Closed Block obviously probably producing about 4.
When I think of the IDI piece of that which I assume is still about half about half of the debt has been retired from when you did the securitization a few years back.
Is there an opportunity to roll that so we can get a little bit more leverage on that to help boost the overall ROE? Thanks.
Thanks Colin.
Mike do you want to pick the first one up about the US business and the component piece of benefit and expenses?  And I think there's actually a relationship that's worth pointing out between the two benefit ratio and expense ratios.
So one of the drivers that led to that pretty steady improvement in the benefit ratio is the shift in the mix of business where we moved with greater growth rate in the core smaller end of the market and we shifted more towards employee pay.
Both of those businesses tend to have lower loss ratios but they also tend to be -- have higher operating expense ratios.
You are dealing with more transactions to get at the same number of insurance.
So actually it's taken a series of investments in technology and business process to maintain the operating expense ratio because without the actions we would have naturally seen the operating expense ratio drift up a bit as we shifted the mix the way that we have.
And as we look forward we will continue to look for stronger growth in those businesses in particular and I think feel confident that we can offset that natural mix shift and the pressure that it creates on the operating expense ratio and maybe do a little bit better than that as we look at probably not quarter-to-quarter but over the next several years continue to find some ways to improve that operating expense ratio.
The priority though is about better serving clients and finding ways that we can grow that top line because as you pointed out we feel actually pretty good about where benefit ratios are.
We see a little bit of improvement but we're looking to generate operating earnings out of disciplined top line growth.
And that's where the priority is going to be.
And then might I add that investment in certain expenses which ultimately helped the service levels improve our ability to cross-sell which we talked about earlier.
That's right.
That's right.
That's good.
Rick do you want to pick up on the capital question?  Yes I'd like to Colin actually I think that it's a great question.
And we think about all of our liabilities including those at the back -- to liabilities and others in terms of what we can do.
We try to be very active in terms of how we manage that.
You would have seen that in this quarter with the retirement of our UK debt and looking at that.
And particularly to the instruments that you're talking about that are backing our Closed Block.
You're about right it has run down over time and has halved.
The liabilities have run down as well over that period of time.
I would tell you that the team that put that in place prior to my time here did a very good job and got a very good structure.
It is floating rate in nature so they actually -- the interest rates being down don't help you from a refinancing perspective but it's certainly something we look at just like we look at all of our liabilities in terms of is there opportunity there.
But the more ideas you have like that around our capital Colin we'd be happy to take them on and look at them.
Because I think it's something we have tried to be very active on is managing the balance sheet and on an ongoing basis.
Thanks for the question.
Yes.
Just one quick follow-up is the old IDI block still running I guess about a cash flow neutral where you just don't have the interest rate sensitivity there anymore or what's coming in in premiums is just paying the clients?  That's exactly right.
Still like that.
I think the only place that you have to watch that as bonds get called in in this low-rate environment but to-date it's run very much cash flow neutral.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn things over to Mr.
White for any closing remarks.
Let me just finish up here Danny if I could.
We - certainly for those on the line we know there's a lot going on this morning and thank you all for taking time to join us and Danny this will complete our second quarter 2014 earnings call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Unum Third Quarter Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead sir.
Great.
Thank you Dana.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the third quarter 2014 earnings conference call for Unum.
Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2013 and our subsequently filed Form 10-Qs.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investor section of our Web-site.
I remind you that the statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found in our statistical supplement on our Web-site also in the Investor section.
Participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen President and CEO; and Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; as well as the CEOs of our business segments Mike Simonds for Unum US Peter O'Donnell for Unum UK Randy Horn for Colonial Life and Jack McGarry for the Closed Block.
And now I will turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Tom? Thank you Tom and good morning everybody.
For the third quarter we reported $0.87 per share in operating earnings a 2.4% increase over last year and a result generally consistent with our expectoration.
Our third quarter results reflect the continuation of many of the positive operating trends we have seen over the past few quarters including continued strong sales growth accelerating premium growth and stable risk experience all of which are helping us to produce solid margins and profitability on our core business lines.
For the first nine months of the year our operating earnings per share increased 6.9% which is consistent with the 5% to 10% outlook we provided you at last December's Investor Meeting.
Book value per share excluding AOCI continues to grow nicely increasing 9.1% from last year's third quarter level.
Now let me highlight a few things before turning the call over to Rick for his more detailed remarks.
First we continue to see good sales momentum in our key business lines a trend that emerged a year or so ago.
Unum US sales increased by 13% this quarter with particularly strong results in our sales to existing customers.
Colonial Life also continues to generate strong sales growth with third quarter sales also increasing 13% reflecting solid results across all of our market segments and growth from both new account sales and sales to existing accounts.
And finally as expected Unum UK sales rebounded this quarter increasing 15% year-over-year in local currency.
I'm confident that these results did not come at the expense of future profitability but instead reflects the strength of our competitive position and today's generally more favorable benefit market conditions.
Second we are also seeing accelerating premium growth with a 4.1% increase in premium in our core operating businesses.
Premium growth has certainly been favorably impacted by the positive sales trends but also reflects the strong persistency in most of our lines and the targeted pricing actions we have taken in selected product areas.
And finally driven by our strong risk results we continue to generate excellent operating margins and returns in our core business segments.
As a result we again reported solid statutory earnings in the quarter which continues to give us the financial flexibility to support the expected capital needs in the business while also returning capital to our shareholders.
Now looking ahead while today's interest rates are certainly a challenge and are likely to remain a challenge over the past few years we have successfully managed through a pretty low interest-rate environment and I am confident that we will continue to do so.
More importantly I do expect the positive operating trends specifically our sales and premium growth along with our strong risk results to continue into next year and we'll have more on that at our Investor Day meeting in December.
Now let me turn things over to Rick for a more detailed review of our operating results.
Rick? Thank you Tom.
Following on Tom's comments I'd like to provide additional details on the drivers of our operating performance this quarter as well as a deeper look into top line growth and a view of our trends in our investment portfolio and I'll close with an update to our capital management position and our capital management plans.
Looking first at Unum US we saw the continued favorable trends of improved premium growth up 3.4% year-over-year and an improved benefit ratio which declined to 70.4% for the segment from 72% in last year's third quarter.
This good product performance was not enough to offset the headwinds of the low interest rate environment and as a result operating earnings declined 2.5%.
This general trend was consistent across the three business lines within the Unum US segment.
Group life and AD&amp;D results were favorable with operating earnings increasing 7% driven by premium growth of 3.8% and lower claim incidents as the benefit ratio declined to 70% from 71.6% in the year ago quarter.
In the supplemental and voluntary lines operating earnings were relatively flat at $82.5 million.
Premium income increased by 1% while risk trends in both lines were improved relative to last year.
Net investment income was $3 million lower than last year due to a decrease in yield on invested assets and lower miscellaneous income partially offset by growth in the asset base.
Operating income in our group disability business declined to $69.2 million from $78.6 million a year ago.
Premium income increased by 2.2% and the benefit ratio improved further down to 82.1% in the third quarter from 82.9% a year ago due to continued strong claim recovery performance both of which are very encouraging trends.
The headwind in the quarter in this line was net investment income which declined by almost $12 million on a year-over-year comparison.
About one third of the decline was attributable to lower miscellaneous income which can be volatile from quarter to quarter.
The other two-thirds of the decline resulted from the slow decline in the portfolio yield in assets over many quarters.
While this interest rate environment creates ongoing pressure we continue to gradually re-price this business to reflect the current rate environment.
So overall despite the pressure from lower investment income we could bring it back to a solid quarter for the Unum US segment as operating ROE was in the 13% to 14% range.
Moving to Unum UK operating earnings were £20.1 million for the third quarter flat with the year ago quarter and consistent with our expectations for this business.
We have tended to experience a negative seasonality in our Group Income Protection line in the third quarter in our Unum UK results which caused some pressure on earnings relative to the second quarter.
Our risk results remain well within our expectations with the third quarter benefit ratio at 70.8% compared to 70.6% in the year ago quarter.
Return on equity for our UK business continues in the high teens.
Colonial Life generated another strong quarter at $71.2 million of operating earnings compared to $69 million a year ago.
We saw favorable experience across our lines resulting in a benefit ratio of 52.7% slightly improved from the 53.1% benefit ratio from last year.
The underlying profitability of this business remains excellent producing an operating ROE of 16% for the quarter.
And rounding out the enterprise the third quarter operating earnings of $26.2 million for the Closed Block was in line with our expectations of a range of $25 million to $30 million per quarter for this segment.
Risk results were also generally in line.
The interest adjusted benefit ratio for the long-term care line was at 88.5% and was higher than the very favorable experience of the first half of the year which was 82.8% but within our expected range of 85% to 90%.
And the interest adjusted loss ratio for the Closed Disability Block was 82.3% improved from the second quarter level of 89.4% but slightly higher than the year ago quarter of 80.6%.
As we have said before these blocks will show volatility from quarter to quarter but this quarter's results were within our expectations.
Net investment income was an important driver of results in this segment especially relative to the very strong second quarter results as miscellaneous investment income was $9 million less in third quarter of 2014 than the second quarter.
Again this component of net investment income will be volatile quarter to quarter for the Closed Block segment in showing a negative quarter to quarter sway.
Moving on to our sales and growth trends across the Company as Tom highlighted in his remarks we are very pleased with the results we are seeing.
In Unum US total sales increased by 13% for the quarter and for the first nine months of the year increased by 18% relative to the same period in 2013 which in our view gets us firmly back to a more normalized level of sales after last year's slowdown in the market.
Within our group benefit lines total sales increased by 21% with 13% growth in the core market and 57% growth in the large case market during the third quarter.
Importantly 70% of the large case sales are sales to existing customers giving us a high level of confidence in the pricing of this business.
Voluntary benefit sales were relatively flat this quarter but are up 6% on a year-to-date basis.
Along with the strong sales momentum persistency for our Unum US employee benefit lines is encouraging and has been mostly improving throughout the year.
In fact the persistency in the group long-term disability line has improved to 90.2% in the third quarter of 2014 from 87.4% in the year ago quarter.
The net result is that Unum US premium income increased 3.4% in the third quarter our strongest rate of growth in two years.
At Colonial Life we again had a very good sales in the quarter increasing 13% for the third quarter and 9% for the year to date compared to the same periods in 2013.
Results remain encouraging across all of our sales metrics.
Core market corporate sales are up 11% large case corporate sales are up 35% and public sector sales are up 11% for the third quarter of 2014 compared to the same time period in 2013.
In addition recruiting results have been strong up 16% over the prior year with strong production results out of those new recruits new to the Colonial Life agency system.
Persistency remained slightly below year ago levels but premium increased 3.3% for the quarter consistent with our outlook.
And finally in the UK sales increased for the first time in several quarters growing 15% in local currency as we moved past the re-pricing and repositioning of our group life block.
Disability sales contributed to the increase growing at about 8% to £7.1 million and persistency in the UK continues to improve particularly in the disability block which is at 88.4% so far in 2014 compared to 81.9% last year.
So overall we're encouraged with our growth trends and we are also pleased to see the pricing on the business we're selling today.
We are continuing to see some evidence of improved top line growth from better employment trends but is not yet close to what we saw at pre-recession levels.
Now looking at the investment portfolio the credit quality remains in excellent shape and the challenge of the low interest rate environment remains front and center.
As I have indicated throughout my review of our segment results the primary headwind in the quarter was the low level of miscellaneous investment income primarily income from [indiscernible].
This amount tends to be very volatile from quarter to quarter and this quarter we had a total of $7 million of miscellaneous net investment income which was $12 million less than the second quarter and $9 million less than the year ago quarter.
But beyond this volatility the low new money yields continue to create incremental pressure on the portfolio yields that back our product lines.
Now looking at capital management the weighted average risk-based capital ratio for our traditional US life insurance companies remained consistent at approximately 400% and our holding company cash and marketable securities was $720 million at quarter end.
This is all fueled by statutory operating earnings which generated $168 million and are within our range of expectations.
Also we continue to steadily buy back our shares with the capital we are generating.
We bought back another $100 million for the quarter which now brings us to $300 million for the year and into the range of our $300 million to $600 million range for the full year.
So wrapping up I also affirm that our 2014 outlook for growth and operating earnings per share remains in the range of 5% to 10%.
I look forward to seeing many of you at our Annual Outlook Meeting which we'll be holding in New York on December 16 and we'll begin discussing our outlook for 2015.
Now let me turn the call back to Tom for his closing comments.
Tom? Thanks Rick.
Before we move to your questions I'll close by reiterating that I'm very pleased actually with our overall results for this quarter including our continued strong sales growth and premium growth and once again this quarter excellent risk results.
These all bode well for our future.
While the current level of interest rates and bond spreads are challenging we have managed through periods like this before and I am confident we will continue to do so.
Our focus hasn't changed.
We are continuing to profitably grow our business to maintain strong margins through our disciplined pricing underwriting and expense management and to generate capital which we'll continue to use to support the needs of our business including investing in growth opportunities we see in the market but also continuing to return capital to our shareholders.
Now this completes our prepared remarks and Dana let's move to the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) We'll go first to Seth Weiss with Bank of American Merrill Lynch.
Can you give an update on the difference between your GAAP and stat reserves within the long-term care business? Jack would you like to take that one? We said previously that the difference between GAAP and stat is over 500 million.
It continues to be over 500 million.
It gets wider as statutory reserves grow but it's in the normal course of things and it hasn't changed dramatically.
Okay great thanks.
And apologies if I missed any updated sales goals guidance but can you comment on your goals for the full year in light of what's been strong growth across the businesses for the first three quarters? Rick you want to take that? [Indiscernible] update our outlooks.
We went back to the last year.
I think what I'd tell you is if you went back to our sales expectations going into the year Unum US was 7% to 10% we're handily outpacing that today and we feel very good.
I think you would have heard that through the tone of all of our comments so we can touch more on that.
The UK is actually pretty flat year to date so it's a little bit behind the goals but that's been one of the volatility from our life business we've sold that but third quarter results were pretty good and I think bode reasonably well for the fourth quarter.
And lastly Colonial Life has had great sales this year up 9% on a year-to-date basis.
We went into the year looking at 4% to 7%.
So I think that Randy and team there are doing a great job in terms of sales front.
So we're not going to update it for the fourth quarter I think we gave you an indicator for the year but needless to say I think we go on to the fourth quarter feeling pretty good about what we have accomplished thus far and how we see the year wrapping out.
Seth if I could add something once we adopted the format a few years ago of having a fairly open transparent sort of set of guidance tools and metrics that we put out there in December we really haven't updated I don't think Rick any of these as we go through the course of the year.
We stand by I think that guidance we provide for sales for premium for operating earnings and for return on equity and I think that's kind of been our approach to this.
So I think we don't do the updates as Rick said not just by sales but by any of the elements of that and we stand by that outlook we provided earlier which we think was pretty comprehensive it's pretty detailed and as Rick said I think if you go through all the measures we put out actually last December you'll see for many of them we're certainly well within the range if not above the range.
But again I think we have always had a policy of just sticking with that guidance.
That's fair enough I appreciate the commentary.
It's just fair to say that the initial guidance it didn't contemplate some sort of slowdown in the fourth quarter is that right is that fair enough to say? Look actually you're talking about sales actually sales – I don't think we had any [procedure] (ph) slowdown I think look at all the business has I think – again we're staying with the outlook we presented but as you can see even at this point in the year for the year to date results across many of these we are certainly leaning very much to the high-end of that guidance if not above that guidance and we see nothing as I said in my comments that gives us any indication that some of the things we have seen with sales growth premium growth and risk are anomaly.
These are things that we have seen to have great momentum in and we think are going to carry into 2015 as well.
Great that's very helpful.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Erik Bass with Citigroup.
So you're going through your annual review of assumptions in the fourth quarter.
Can you help us just think about the potential impact of low interest rates and tighter credit spreads on your long-term care reserves? Maybe we do.
Rick if you don't mind just give an overall view of interest rate management because obviously as Rick said in his comments and I did in mine this interest rate environment both interest rate and spreads is not particularly positive for our industry and so maybe start there and then we can sort of talk about some of the other branches of that? [Indiscernible] into the process I would tell you that across the Company we go through – as you started into the question we do go through our assumptions in a more detailed way in the fourth quarter and that process will happen as normal.
You mentioned specifically interest rates across the board and I'll flip it to Jack in a second but when you think about interest rates in the Company and how we manage them the majority of our product lines we actually are able to price for them.
So that comes into how we look at the overall interest rate management.
One of the lines that also is impacted by interest rates would be our long-term disability line and we think about the reserves around that and our discount rates we have talked in the past about a margin or at least a differential that we have between what we are getting from our earned yield and our discount rates last quarter it was 90 basis points and this quarter I think it ticked up a basis point or two to 91 basis points.
So it gives you an indication of how we manage interest rates through those different lines and I'll flip it over to Jack to talk more specifically about long-term care but interest rates I think broader management [indiscernible].
And so clearly long-term care is very sensitive to the interest rate environment but I'd remind people that there are other important assumptions within the long-term care business as well.
Morbidity and mortality are important the ability to get rate increases in the future to respond to interest rate pressures are important.
And so we are in the midst of a comprehensive review of all the assumptions related to long-term care.
We are making good progress on that review.
It will be part of our annual normal reserve adequacy studies.
And so we expect to have more clarity on that in the fourth quarter as those studies are completed.
Got it.
And I guess and you didn't mention the IDI-Closed Block is there anything we should be thinking about as it relates to that from an interest rate component? Sure.
Let me bring up the IDI piece which is important because when you look at our IDI block it is a significant block from an asset level perspective.
The important thing to remember there though is that we are now getting effectively new cash flows.
So the cash flows we get in both from premiums coupons and bond maturities basically goes to pay claims.
So when you think of the interest rate environment we are somewhat indifferent to the interest rate environment around that because there is now new cash flow there to invest.
And then when you talk about the Closed Disability Block it's also going through a similar process around our reserving processes at year-end so I don't want to leave that piece of it out but as Jack said these are normal processes and we continue to watch interest rates but I think there's a couple of areas where we watch it probably a little bit more closely.
Thanks.
And just one last follow-up because you mentioned the discount rate I guess how should we be thinking about the decline in interest rate on your new claims discount rate and to the extent you were to make an adjustment how much of an impact would that have on your pricing and potential competitiveness within the industry? Sure.
When you think about the discount rates of that line and we have adjusted discount rates in the past and so I'd tell you that on an annual basis 25 basis point move is a $12 million to $13 million impact.
And so that's something we always look at but once again it's highly managed that our assets relative to that discount rate that's something we do over longer period of time we have a healthy margin today but we have to be reflective of where we are today as well and manage that through a period of time.
So discount rates are something that we always look at in that line.
Maybe I'll turn it over to Mike to talk about how we impact that from a pricing perspective.
Thanks Rick.
So we would be looking at discount rate we'd be looking at turns and incidents and severity when we're building new business pricing into a plan.
So to give you a sense in 2014 because I think it's indicative of where we sort of look going forward we are able to put about a quarter of our core group insurance business through the renewal program about a third of our large case business through thinking as we always do pricing forward for things like aging and interest rate.
We placed prices in the high single digits and as Rick hit in his comments overall block persistency is just about 90%.
So we feel pretty good about the track record and the current environment to take necessary actions.
As we look forward certainly low interest rates is something that we'll factor into our pricing plans and we'll probably mean a modestly expanded renewal program in '15 but again I think the environment is one where we feel pretty confident going into that.
Let me add to that a little bit too.
We started a pricing discussion like this on the back of still some strong returns and margins.
And so maybe like kind of like some others in our industry our margins and our profitability are pretty strong in that line.
And so therefore pricing actions can be more temporary because they are actually only dealing with the interest rate comportment.
The other thing I guess I'd say Erik too is when we go through our outlook in December that Rick referred to we'll have this all contemplated in that outlook actually.
And so I think we're obviously thinking as all you are about the fact that it looks like 2015 is going to be a difficult interest rate environment and a difficult spread environment I think you are going to assume we start to build that in a way we think about the business and as we share our outlook it's going to be embedded in that.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
We'll go next to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Kind of asked and answered I am kind of interested though on expense levels in general and what you're doing there they did strike me as somewhat high this quarter.
Did they strike you as high at all? Rick you want to touch on that at high level and maybe we'll go to business units after that actually? I don't think it struck me as high this quarter.
I think it's something that as we continue invest in the business the team here works very hard about balancing those investments with good productivity and what we saw.
So you can see a little bit of volatility on a quarter to quarter but it doesn't strike me from an overall – one of the things I'd factor into that is as we grow the business and we pay more commissions and compensation you're going to see more expenses actually flowing through as a result of that.
That's a good thing and so we can break some of that out in the future but we feel fine about our expense there.
Michael anything to that? For you if you ask me that I think Tom Rick just hit on one of the key points it's just as we've seen sales growth accelerate the acquisition costs associated with bringing that business on is a [indiscernible] pressure there and that's pressure that we are happy to have and deal with.
The second is certainly we continue to make some capability investments in the business.
So we think particularly about employee pay those will pay really good dividends as we continue to build scale on that business.
And the last one is not new in the quarter it's a little bit more long term but as we shift our mix of business and grow our core insurance and voluntary benefits business a bit faster those tend to be higher OE but lower loss ratio type businesses.
So we would see just a little bit of gradual movement there just natural mix.
Okay.
Rick can you touch on the tax rate? It looked like it might have been a little bit low in the quarter.
Maybe a few checks.
I think we have been right around 30% Steven.
I think if you go year to date I think it's somewhere around 29.7% 29.8%.
So that's tracking within range of our expectations we would have gone for the year so not much else to say there.
Okay.
And then one more.
I realize it's volatile but the miscellaneous investment income obviously a big deal this quarter you gave us numbers for 2Q and 3Q last year.
Do you know off the top of your head what 1Q might have looked like and maybe 4Q and that way we will at least see a run rate for the year? Sure.
I have that I can give it to you.
1Q would have been around $13 million we had $13 million $14 million something like that.
And then year ago fourth quarter I think was closer to $20 million.
So like we said it's volatile.
With $7 million this quarter you will see that volatility coming through.
And although it causes a little bit of volatility on the margin I think when you look in the aggregate you really have to look to the underlying ROEs of our business lines which continue to be very strong.
No the risk results were very good.
Okay thanks guys.
We'll take our next question from Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Just want to start with the long term care review again in the fourth quarter.
If I think back to the 2011 action that you took part of the assumption change related to a Society of Actuaries study I think it was lapse rates and persistency my understanding is the next study from the SOA is not going to come out until 2015 but I believe you're getting some of that information currently.
So I guess the question is do you think that in your review this year you're going to have the updated information to take a good look at the lapse and persistency assumptions? Let me object to this introduction.
I think as you know you have invested heavily in the infrastructure of your business actually.
I would say today as we go through an analytical process like this we're in a very different thought actually and so obviously maybe we couldn't address any specific question but let me just remind everybody what we've done to build a lot better sort of database and capability to do the work that we're doing right now actually.
Yes and we've made a big investment over the past year and a half and the infrastructure supporting these studies we built a state of the art modeling capability we have invested in our data structures and our ability to access them to look at our actual experience.
And so we are continuing to move forward.
We are in a much different place today than we were even two or three years ago.
We tend to be more reliant on our own experience particularly related to things like lapses and persistency where we have a good exposure we have credible data of our own.
And so we will use it.
There has been a recent publishing of preliminary SOA results on continuing some recovery trends.
We have looked at that as part of our comprehensive process.
We are taking that into account as we finalize our assumptions.
But I would tell you it hasn't had a material impact on where we were and where we think we will come out.
Got it okay.
And then I guess for Rick with interest rates falling again seems like we're getting into this conversation around discount rates for group disability and comparisons to other companies that have a more formula like approach to establishing the discount rate versus I think what your approach is.
So I guess the question is can you talk about the approach that you take why you take it? And I think the other issue that comes up a lot is the fact that you use a duration weighted yield in that 90 basis point margin that you gave us.
So can you talk about why you use that and what it would be if you didn't use duration weighted yield what that margin would be? Just to give you a view of just a couple of things taken into account one is how we think about running the business too and we think about it on a basis where we are actually out in the markets we believe in stability with our customer base and that would bring price to market and how we talk about that.
I think we look at the interest rate management on a similar way where we think about it over the longer term and you would have seen going back a couple of years ago we've adjusted discount rate a number of times to try and make sure that we keep a good spread between what our assets are yielding and what our discount rates need to be.
We'll continue to do that.
We're not going to do that quarter by quarter we do it on a longer-term trajectory and you can continue to see us do that.
It all comes back to just our philosophy how we take that back to the market and introduce it through our pricing models and everything else.
I'd also refer you back to a point in time where we were investing assets at much higher returns than our discount rates much higher and that's in the credit crisis when we were actually investing at high yields we didn't let that flow through earnings where theoretically we could have we actually let that build up in our reserve margin.
And so it's true on both sides of the equation when things are harder as they are today and when things are better we maintain a similar philosophy around that.
Second part of your question on the average weighted – duration weighted yields that's a non-event for this line.
This line matches up actually duration very well.
So I can't give you specifically what the duration weighted and non-duration weighted is for this line but when you think about our assets and liabilities they are actually pretty well matched in this line.
We actually as part of our supplement put out a duration weighted yield.
The reason is because we have so many different lines we're trying to balance that to give you a good indicator in our supplement around what that runs like but in a specific line such as LTD that's really not a helpful or a differentiable metric around that.
So I won't spend too much time on that Suneet.
Okay.
So bottom line though that around roughly 90 basis points or 91 I think what you're saying is if we looked at that without the duration factors it wouldn't be dramatically different? No it would be the same.
And when we actually go out and look at our 90 basis points we actually look out over time and so we don't want to actually get to a point where we get – where that comes down too quickly and that's what you've seen us do over the last several years is actually move on discount rate before we needed to in a sense not getting down to a margin where we're uncomfortable.
We'll continue to do that in the future.
We'll take our next question from Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Three quick questions on sales specifically the non-core sales.
So I think you mentioned that 70% of these sales are coming from existing customers.
So the questions are; one is that kind of true across the board in the UK Colonial and the US; two what is driving the sales growth in existing customers; and three what's driving the growth in the remaining 30% sales growth? Why don't we go around each of the CEOs actually to speak that? Mike you want to pick that one to start? Yes sure.
So we would have seen north of 60% of our sales for Unum US coming through and that's across lines of business and segments that we market under I'd point out and Rick did as well in the large end of the market it was actually a higher number than that it was north of 70% that came from existing clients.
So it's a big part of our strategy.
To your question of what's driving it it's investments in new lines of business so building out our voluntary benefit in particular it's individual disability line of business and it's capabilities around enrolment and re-enrollment.
So we've got a good level of service delivery to those clients they know us know us well and so our objective is to be there be consultative and be able to grow over time.
That growth we delayed for a couple of reasons.
One is it does tend to come in favorably priced to the new client acquisitions; two it drives persistency for us.
So we're quite confident that as we build out those relationships over time it drives up our persistency.
And I think that's reflected in the results that we're seeing here where any particular line we may need to take great action but we still see the overall relationship holding.
Randy you want to give a little color on the Colonial rebuild? You bet tom.
We typically average about 65% or so of our sales in any given quarter being to existing customers.
So that has not really changed much over time and that's just a big part of our business model where we have our agency system going back to service enforce clients talk to new hires introduce new product lines that type of thing.
So that's kind of just normal course of business for us.
That being said we are seeing very strong growth this year in new accounts sales.
We were up over 20% in the third quarter and I think that's a matter of the market conditions improving.
Again we have implemented some new products here and continue to grow our agency system.
So very good sales results across the board but again a big part of our model is to keep going back and seeing existing customers and generating increasing sales growth on that side of it.
So it's about a 65-35 split for us.
Peter you want to touch on the UK briefly? Thanks Tom.
So sales in the third quarter were good but there was some timing switches between quarter two and quarter three.
So when I look at year-to-date as Rick said we're sort of pretty much in line with last year.
If you look at our GIP sales though they were up about 3% which is a nice bit of growth there and obviously our persistency is pretty good there.
About one third of our sales comes through existing customers and that's pretty much a standard metric for us if you look on quarter on quarter or year to date it's around about one-third of our sales to existing customers.
Did we touch the things the issue? Yes.
We'll take our next question from Jimmy Bhullar with J.P.
Morgan.
Just had a question on the UK business maybe if you could talk about market conditions there and your success in re-pricing the group life block? And then also related to that on the reinsurance contract do you increase your redemption this year and given that the margins there have been stabilizing should we expect you to recapture more or increase retention further in 2015? Peter you want to pick up on the market condition? So the market conditions in the UK so we have been very successful at re-rating the block and feel very good about the business that's in force now.
We still have what I would call sort of small rate increases to put through in some schemes but I would put that into the business as usual.
We are also able to be opportunistic at times where we see schemes that come to market where the competition isn't chasing volume where we can write those at reasonable margin.
So you will see group life I think be volatile quarter on quarter as we pick and choose the schemes that we want to play on.
So that would be the sort of overall perspective.
What was the second question sorry Jimmy? Just on the reinsurance contract you increased your redemption this year do you expect to do or increase it further next year given that margins have been stabilizing? So we're very happy with the reinsurance contracts the way it's performed.
So it's exactly what we would have wanted it to do over the past two years.
Really the question comes as an economic decision for us and we are right to market at the moment we are looking at the prices and I will discuss that with group and the Board and say look what's the deal on the table and depending on how those economics look that will drive that decision.
So we will be able to update you on that I think in December when we come with our overall view of 2015.
We'll take our next question from Colin Devine of Jefferies.
I've got three ones.
Just first to clarify on the core large case there hasn't been really any fundamental change in the strategy that Unum in any of its regions is going to become more aggressive in the large case market? Mike you want to take that one? Sure.
So actually I think Peter [indiscernible] up well.
Where we see opportunities to write new clients in the [indiscernible] market here in the US we will take advantage of it.
If you looked back over six quarters you'd see a fair amount of volatility up and down.
We've put together a couple of good sales quarters here but I would expect some volatility looking forward.
I think to the heart of your question though if you look at group sales in total for Unum US you'd see that over three quarters of all our sales were in the core market.
So while the variance was a little bit different here in the pure third quarter we still are looking to grow the core at a faster rate.
Maybe I think I'd add to that actually I think Mike to the efforts of you and your team we've actually got a very strong margin on our large case block now actually.
So there's been quite a bit of work leading up to the last several years in terms of pruning the block.
The other thing is again I think you used the statistic about 80% of our large case business was NBOC which we'll maybe speak a little bit to those two.
Yes so most of the growth we are getting is through expansion of the client relationship and that's helped us along with our disciplined underwriting actually to get to strong and consistent risk returns out of that large case business.
And so we're confident that we can really [grow with our] (ph) market rate but again it's going to be opportunistic on the new sales front.
With respect to IDI on the Closed Block persistency seems to finally be trending down a little over last couple of years.
What sort of [indiscernible] first is that [indiscernible] just really been an aberration that we're seeing get a little weaker we are finally seeing that block start to run off? And then I've got a final one on capital.
Persistency is an interesting term.
Actually what's happening is as the block ages people are retiring and [indiscernible] so they are no longer working and we think that's going to continue to happen that's been increasing pretty steadily over time it will continue to increase as the block ages.
So we think it's just part of the consistent maturation and runoff of the block.
Okay.
And then the final one with respect to capital management clearly the Company is not growing exceedingly fast here the core business lines are producing ROE so if they don't lead the industry or is as good as it gets Tom can you talk about the dividend policy? I know the buybacks are fine but I think the other part of the payout ratio it would seem to me you could support a payout ratio probably double the level that you are currently distributing? Let me introduce it Colin then maybe I'll ask Rick to pick it up.
I think as you know our strategy on capital management has always been to have a sort of a two-pronged approach to it.
Part of it is actually buybacks part of it is actually dividend increases.
I guess I've [indiscernible] by the point but I think that's always going to be our view as both of those are going to continue to contribute to our return of capital strategy to shareholders.
I do think Rick it's safe to say that dividend has been an important piece to the puzzle we have been continuing to grow it but maybe you want to embellish a little bit.
Colin I think the way you're looking at it is right and we look at it the same day which is our dividend policy what you would've seen the last several years we have increased that payout ratio because we can support a higher payout ratio.
And so we've seen that grow at double digits over the last five years.
And so we'll continue to have that be an important part of the strategy.
And the balancing item with that is as we look at the growth and the investment we want to have I hear you on the growth front but actually as we look at the core operations premiums are up 4% we're feeling better about that I'd like to put more capital there overall and then as we don't see use for that capital on those two fronts or a throw in the M&amp;A market as well then we'll buy back shares and you saw us do that this quarter and that's been our ammo for the last several years and I think that will continue.
But I don't want to minimize the fact that we do see an increasing payout ratio on our dividends to be important as it has been over last five years and going forward.
We'll take our next question from Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
First question and I realize you are in the process so there's not a lot you could say on it but for the year-end review I believe what I've heard you say over time is that expect this to be GAAP only should not have a statutory impact.
Is that still the right way to think about it? Jack? I don't think we've necessarily said GAAP only.
We certainly would expect to the extent something happened it would be more of a GAAP event than a statutory event.
We talked about earlier in the call the difference between our statutory reserve and GAAP reserves and statutory reserves are considerably more conservative.
Probably the note to that would be First Unum and some of their owners statutory requirements would be the only adjunct I would add to that statement.
And Tom [indiscernible] First Unum is our New York subsidiary.
Yes that's right.
Okay and then next question is in some prior periods when rates have gotten pretty low I know you all have harvested more liquidity in certain quarters and that's created some short-term NII pressure.
I'm just wondering is that partly what we're seeing here as well right now? So I think when you think about the overall interest rate environment I'm not sure harvesting liquidity but when you think about where we've been able to invest and things like that they've been in tougher spots.
So we've gone into some higher rated assets over that period of time we've sat on some cash through some periods of time until we see the right investments out there.
So that is part of what you're seeing from a net investment income perspective.
And I think it just comes back to the choices that we have to invest in and where we've been able to in previous years find asset categories we like that maybe were out of flavor and we were able to get some good yields that's been a much harder trend this year because most assets are in an overbid situation and that's just the reality of this year.
So I'm not sure if it's as much liquidity it's probably a little bit of that I think it's just more that it's harder to find places to put money to work.
Rick specific follow-up to that so in the last few quarters here have you been investing in more short-term securities at present or has that not been the case I just want to be clear? Not materially I'd say that's not the case Tom.
I would talk about higher-rated securities which can have a net investment income impact but we're looking at the relative value and so that's all been part of this pressure that we're seeing from an overall perspective.
And [indiscernible] buying a lot of short assets.
Got you.
And then last question just as a follow-up to Suneet's just on the duration adjusted yield a little more just to understand how you think about this philosophically so in the quarter duration adjusted yield went to 6.19%.
If I look at cash yield or nominal bond portfolio yield it's actually all the way down to 4.71%.
So that's almost 150 basis point spread.
Which one matters to you really? I know you have in the supplement this duration adjusted yield but the 4.71% is the one that's actually flowing through the P&amp;L.
So anyway can you talk through like why one matters or the other one doesn't to you? I think that the duration weighted yield across the portfolio is an indicator in aggregate and the best way to represent what's going on across the Company.
The calculation you're doing in terms of the shorter-term perspective of that that's not really meaningful to me because we actually run it on a line by line basis right.
So whether I'm getting a higher yield than that for long-term care or lower yields from that backing some of our shorter lines that's how we manage it.
It's really a product by product perspective and it's hard to give you that in one metric.
So those two metrics you have out there are right and the trend lines on those if you follow them would be similar but we do manage this on a line by line product line by product line basis.
We'll take our next question from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
So I have a question about US traditional sort of group insurance sales and I guess the question is sort of this way you're not the first to report earnings results this quarter there's been some that have preceded you I recognize they don't represent the entire group insurance industry.
However it's just about everybody is demonstrating pretty strong sales growth [indiscernible] talking about strong sales growth smaller end of the quarter StanCorp and just about everywhere in between with maybe one or two small exceptions.
But the overall market certainly can't be growing at this kind of pace given what we're seeing economically lack of employment growth or at least slow employment growth.
I guess my question for you is this who's losing the share? I'm not asking you to name names just in general like how is this – it's so significant that it seems very stark? Mike just give a little more color again what you're seeing in the market and how we're competing actually in the market? I'd say generally John we see a mix really across the board but certainly there are some players in the market that are re-pricing their business.
We know that the industry return on equity I think it came up to one of the questions earlier is somewhere in the single digits and so there's work to be done in terms of pricing.
So there are actually a few carriers out there where their earned premium is down and they are shutting some business.
That business shows up as new sales in other places.
So there's a little bit of churn within.
I think it's the combination of the economy improving and some market expansion paired with some carriers that need to do some re-pricing which is generating some churn that spits out the total industry sales numbers.
So the way we sort of look at it is we're comfortable with the returns we're generating in the business we're sticking with our underwriting standards and we feel good about having that 90% persistency.
So we are not feeding a lot of the churn back into the market but I think it's the sum the total of the two that gets you to the sales number.
And I think John we are also benefiting from our investment in our service infrastructure.
So I think the quality of our relationships I'd say Mike are pretty much at all time high in terms of customer satisfaction and that obviously plays well into being able to expand lines of coverage and do more business with existing clients.
The other thing I think we benefit from is our sense of stability.
I think as we talk about our results this quarter and talk about the outlook as we get to the December meeting for 2015 there's not a huge change in focus actually and this has been the case for the last five or six years.
So that consistency that stability those are the things that I think play very well I think Mike in terms of how we come to market now too whereas not everybody has that same set of circumstances.
I was just going to interject.
That seems like a pretty good point because there are some who are going through some pretty significant change.
Just one more question following up on idea of miscellaneous investment income and bond call prepayments I guess the question I'd ask is this way to the extent that we see rising rates it seems to me in miscellaneous investment income would stay down or start trending down obviously on the other side of the equation though you get the opportunity to invest at highly yields which is terrific but I guess I'm thinking more about just overall portfolio size I mean how long do you think bond call prepayments can persist? It seems to me there will be a limit to it given once a bond is called it can't be called again.
Sure maybe I'll give you some comments on that John.
I have watched this cycle for the last decade and so they do ebb and flow in terms of cycles that they go through.
One of the things that I would say is true of our prepayments is while some of them are structural in nature so it's not just somebody taking advantage of a low interest rate environment so we have private placements that have structures within them fees structures within them that happen as a result of M&amp;A as an example and people retire debt.
So interest rate is not the only reason that there is restructuring in these portfolio but as we said you would see volatility we've seen a lot of consistency as you look over the last three plus years but that's not to say that that will continue on that pace forever and it's something we'll call out to you as we see it.
But as I've seen the cycles come and go it's I think that's something you will see across the industry and the portfolio but I don't want to remove the fact that some of it is structural in how we invest and those will not go away.
Okay.
And then last one maybe just big picture Tom.
M&amp;A opportunities out there we have heard now for a very long time everybody wants to own it everybody wants a group insurance business nobody wants to give it up.
Is that still the same thing that you are continuing to see or do you think there will be an opportunity for Unum to maybe bolt-on something over the course of the next 12 or 24 months? It seems like it is a continuation of the theme of what you just said.
There's a lot of people who want to be in the business and increase their scale and there doesn't seem to be many who want to part with their business.
But as we said earlier there's an awful lot of challenges for some carriers as they go through sort of trying to sort out how do you actually effectively do this business.
It's one thing to say you want to be in it but can you actually manage the business both operationally and financially.
And so I don't think Rick we're assuming any M&amp;A activity but we're certainly staying very close to the marketplace.
It feels like it's going to be more that there's not as more buyers than sellers but we're going to continue hanging around the rim to use the basketball term.
But I think the other side of that is we don't need to do M&amp;A to fulfil some of the objectives that we have laid out.
So if it happens it's great we do have the financial and operational resources to do things we are also very very careful to stay within the framework of the things we know well and again we don't have to do it for us to achieve some of the objectives that we've laid out but there's always hope.
Okay.
And I guess fair to say too that maybe some of the higher level of sales is effectively a small version of M&amp;A as some of these companies are maybe struggling and losing business? Absolutely.
And again I think certainly again if there is an M&amp;A opportunity we want to take a look at it but there's another way also that sees on some of these opportunities which is just in the marketplace and I think [indiscernible] several of our businesses.
We'll take our next question from Randy Binner with FBR.
I want to just dig into sales a little bit more and kind of I guess compare and contrast with some competitors who have had weaker sales this quarter.
So kind of thinking of AFLAC and also CNO and Torchmark a little bit different products different distributions but the sense I'm getting from them is a lot of challenges and so this is really geared towards Colonial a lot of challenges from distraction from ACA kind of a better economy means it's harder for them to recruit and I'm not sure if your independent contractor model shields you from that hearing there's a lot of competition even for people who are selling life and supplemental health among new entrants into those markets.
So I guess I was just kind of curious for more kind of understanding your texture on how you're getting better sales numbers as all these other folks are kind of struggling given all the items I mentioned? Yes Randy we're always – as you are alluding to we're cautious not to speak to specific competitors but maybe Randy you could talk about lots of things we've been doing too because it's really more about I think the things that we've been doing that have been behind the results that you have seen from Colonial and maybe to touch on some of those things in response to Randy's question.
Happy to.
I think it really boils down for us to just consistency and focus and primarily having a focus on our agency distribution system and this is the channel that we go to market with.
We work through that channel on both the direct sales side and the smaller end of the market and then work with them in terms of partnering with brokers as they go upmarket and we think very importantly Randy this helps us avoid any channel conflict.
So we've not had to deal with any ups and downs and stresses and strains about distribution.
It's just been a very singular approach for us and I think that's worked well.
From there it's just really a sound execution of the fundamentals in that agency system.
Our recruiting continues to be very strong we're up about 16% with new agent recruits here in 2014 and I think more importantly we're seeing the production from those new recruits very strong up over 40%.
So we're very encouraged there we continue to improve the effectiveness of our training programs and our overall sales support and again that's led to a strong growth in the number of producing agents and the number of producing sales units that we have out in the field.
So all of that has just led to increasing activity levels more appointments and a strong increase in the number of closed cases.
As far as the market environment Randy we are seeing a gradual improvement in the economy.
Still some pressure in terms of new hires in that small end of the market but other than that we are seeing more and more employers opening up to changes in their benefit programs introducing voluntary benefits.
Most of them are moving beyond the Affordable Care Act implementation and in fact we're seeing strong growth in a number of our products that very much complement those changes to major medical programs strong sales of critical illness for example in our accident products.
So all of this has really led to very broad-based growth in sales force here in 2014 both on new and existing accounts.
In all of our market segments we're seeing a very strong double-digit growth.
So we're very optimistic about the fundamentals of our business and we have a very optimistic sales outlook.
So hopefully that answers it for you Randy.
Yes it's certainly helpful.
I guess the one follow-up would be I mean so 16% on new agent recruits that's also kind of a best in class number at least among these publicly traded guys have you changed the way you recruit at all including I mean like covering their expenses or sign-on bonuses or do you have a new IT systems or anything that's kind of changed or is it all just status quo as far as the recruiting process goes? I'd put it in the fine-tuning category Randy.
We're always tweaking a little bit around the edges in terms of new approaches and how we connect digitally as well as face-to-face that type of thing but in terms of financing or different commission rates or something like that really no significant changes it's just staying focused on it.
We of course have established goals for all of our sales managers to hit when it comes to recruiting and then I think most importantly then providing a great opportunity with good training and the opportunity to make a great living and I think the word spreads rapidly out in the marketplace.
If I could just add too I think a little bit of what as I answered to John's earlier question too just the stability and consistency of the things we do actually is incredibly important in the marketplace and it's also important to Colonial's business.
People know what we stand for they know how we value the distribution system and obviously we continue to innovate and add new things as we go through time and obviously for those who haven't seen it the sponsorship at Colonial with Shark Tank for example is a good example of those kind of things where we are stepping out.
But still I think that stability and consistency is one of those things where I think our organization is certainly domestically is being rewarded for.
I think we're bumping up against the hour here.
I know people have some other things to move to.
So let me just say thank you for taking the time to join us this morning and we look forward to seeing many of you hopefully in our mid-December Outlook Meeting in New York and operators will conclude our third quarter operating earnings call.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Unum Group Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I will turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead sir.
Great.
Thank you Debbie.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call for Unum.
Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2013 and our subsequently filed Forms 10-Q.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investor section of our Web-site.
I remind you that the statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found in our statistical supplement on our website also in the Investor section.
Participating in this morning's conference call are Tom Watjen President and CEO; and Rick McKenney Executive Vice President and CFO; as well as the CEOs of our business segments Mike Simonds for Unum US Peter O'Donnell for Unum UK Tim Arnold for Colonial Life and Jack McGarry for the Closed Block.
And now I will turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Tom? Thanks Tom and good morning everybody.
The fourth quarter was a good one for the company with operating earnings per share excluding the special items outlined in our release of $0.90 per share an increase of 5.9% over last year.
This brought our fully operating earnings per share to $3.55 a growth rate of 6.9% in line with 5% to 10% outlook for growth we provided coming into 2014.
These results largely reflect the positive operating trends we have been highlighting throughout the year; that is strong sales momentum accelerating premium growth in our core businesses and stable risk experience.
This quarter we also took the appropriate actions necessary to deal with the impact of low interest rates on our businesses particularly long term care and we’ll cover that in more detail in a moment.
But for now let me highlight a few points before turning things over to Rick for his more detailed remarks.
First we again saw excellent sales results across all of our core businesses this quarter continuing a trend we have been building throughout 2014.
Unum U.S sales increased by 25% for the quarter and 21% for the full year with strong results across all product areas and all sectors of the markets we serve.
Likewise the Colonial Life sales this quarter were also strong increasing 15.7% for the quarter and 11.6% for the full year again with solid performance across all market segments.
And finally Unum UK sales continued to rebound this quarter increasing 27.8% for the quarter in local currency.
These solid results across all three of our businesses reflects the strength of our competitive position in our markets and today’s generally more favorable conditions.
Second these strong sales trends over the past few quarters combined with improved persistency in most of our business lines and our ongoing focus on managing renewals in our in-force block has resulted in accelerated premium growth.
For all of our core business segments combined premium income grew by 5.7% the strongest we’ve seen in several years and each business contributed.
Unum US premiums grew 5.8% Colonial Life increased 4.2% and Unum UK increased 10.5% in local currency.
This growth has not come from any meaningful economic recovery but instead is primarily the result of adding new customers and expanding our relationships with existing customers.
And finally we continue to see strong stable operating margins and returns in our core business segments.
These results help us maintain the financial flexibility needed to both support our business needs including support the growth we’re having while also returning capital to our shareholders.
Our primary challenge and one faced by all those in our industry is present low interest rate environment which we don’t expect to abate anytime soon.
This quarter we took steps necessary to manage through this environment both with the Closed Block LPC reserve actions as well as the new claim reserve discount rated adjustment in our Unum US LTD business.
I would add that we do this from a position of strength with industry leading operating margin and significant financial flexibility.
Before I turn the call over to Rick I wanted to take a moment to comment on the release issued yesterday announcing the leadership changes here at Unum.
After 12 of the absolute best years of my life serving as the CEO of this company I’ve announced that I will be retiring at this year’s annual meeting.
This is something that we all are well prepared for.
The board and leadership team has spent considerable amount of time on succession planning over the last five to six years.
I'm very pleased that Rick McKenney who as you know is our CFO and internally chairs our operating committee will become president and join our board April 1st and will succeed me as CEO at our annual meeting in May.
And Jack McGarry currently president and CEO of our Closed Block will succeed Rick as CFO on April 1st and we have an excellent plan in place to fill Jack’s current role as head of the Closed Block which obviously remains a critical area of focus for the company.
The board and I have great confidence in Rick Jack and our whole team and I can assure you that we won’t miss a beat.
It will be a very smooth transition and I step back from active management knowing that Unum is in good hands and poised for even better things ahead.
Now to me the board asked me to continue as part of the board for the next two years and to assume the chairman’s role at the annual meeting.
My focus will be on fulfilling my new role as chairman and helping to assure we have continuity at both the board and management levels.
Now I'm happy to answer any questions you have here but for now let’s get back to the discussion of our strong fourth quarter and full year results and for that I’ll turn things back over to Rick.
Thanks Tom and thanks for the comments and I very much look forward to the opportunity.
As far as our investors are concerned I expect a very smooth transition.
You can also expect continuation of the execution on the strategy which you have become accustomed to with Unum which is one of disciplined growth.
Let me turn back to our discussion on what was a very good quarter.
I’ll start first with Unum US where in total fourth quarter operating earnings declined by 2.2% to $212.4 million with favorable premium growth that Tom mentioned offset by lower net investment income and our change in discount rate that we talked about.
The overall benefit ratio for the segment was stable at 71.3% which we will dissect by each business line.
Operating income in our group disability business declined to $66.7 million from $68.9 million a year ago.
Premium income increased by 5.7% on strong sales and improved persistency.
While the benefit ratio increased to 83.7% in the quarter from 83.2% a year ago and 82.1% in the third quarter.
As we indicated at our investor meeting in December we reduced the new claim reserve discount rate in our LTD line in the fourth quarter by 50 basis points causing a reduction in operating earnings of $6.6 million and elevating the benefit ratio by 1.2%.
Clearly today’s low interest rate environment was the driver of this decision and is also the driver of the lower net investment income as the portfolio yield continues to decline given the lower new money investment yields.
While the impact of lower yields was offset somewhat by higher miscellaneous net investment income this quarter the interest rate environment continues to create ongoing pressures.
As we had discussed previously we managed this impact by gradually reprising our in-force business through the renewal process which we’ll continue to do in 2015 and also through pricing adjustments to new business.
From an underlying risk perspective we did experience slightly higher claim size in the fourth quarter that was consistent with our longer term expectations and experience.
Group Life and AD&amp;D results also declined slightly year-over-year.
Premium income growth continues to accelerate increasing 6.7% in the fourth quarter but the benefit ratio was slightly higher at 7.8% compared to 70% in both a year ago and previous quarters.
In the supplemental and voluntary lines operating earnings were relatively flat at $85.3 million compared to $85.8 million a year ago.
Premium income increased 5% while risk trends in both lines were generally stable.
Overall despite the pressure from lower investment income and the discount rate adjustment it was a solid quarter for the Unum US segment with operating ROE remaining in the 13% to 14% range well above industry averages in the group business.
Looking at Unum UK operating earnings were £24.1 million for the fourth quarter up almost 9% from the year ago quarter.
Our risk results were solid in both the Group Disability and Group Life business which helped the benefit ratio improve to 68.9% this quarter compared to 73% in the year ago quarter.
The margins remain in very good shape for Unum UK which generated an operating ROE of slightly over 18% for the year.
Colonial Life continued to generate strong consistent results with operating earnings increasing 7.1% in the fourth quarter to $74.3 million.
Claim experience remained generally stable with the benefit ration at 52.3% for the fourth quarter compared to 52.4% in the year ago quarter.
Net investment income benefited from favorable miscellaneous net investment income in the quarter.
The underlying profitability of Colonial Life remains excellent producing an operating ROE in the 16% to 17% range for both the fourth quarter and full year.
Rounding out the enterprise with the Closed Block; with the completion of our reserve review and long-term care we booked a reserve strengthening in line with the expectations we provided at our investor meeting in December.
The addition to GAAP reserves was $698 million or $454 million after tax.
The assumptions behind the change are consistent with what we discussed at our meeting back in December with the net effect of the charge largely reflecting our expectation that interest rates will remain low over the next four to five years before gradually returning to more historic levels.
In addition the statutory impact from our year end LTC reserve work for $67 million.
This is included in our capital position at year end 2014 and reflected on our 2015 capital plans.
Excluded in the impact of the reserve charge operating earnings for the Closed Block were $30 million in the quarter compared to $26.8 million in the year ago quarter.
Risk results were generally in line with our long-term expectations.
In the LT block the interest adjusted benefit ratio was 89.6% for the fourth quarter towards the higher end of our 85% to 90% range due to unfavorable mortality that we saw in the quarter.
For the full year 2014 the interest adjusted benefit ratio for long-term care was 85.9% reflecting the more favorable results we experienced in the block earlier in the year.
In the Closed Disability block we saw much better performance in the fourth quarter primarily from lower claim incidents after experiencing a higher level of volatility than normal in previous quarters with the interest adjusted benefit ratio at 81% for the fourth quarter and 83.6% for the full year 2014.
I’ll move now to our sales and growth trends across the company.
As Tom highlighted in his remarks we are very pleased with the results this quarter and for the full year.
In Unum US total sales increased by 25% in the fourth quarter and 21% for the full year a very strong set of results.
The growth was well balanced between growth in the core group market under 2000 employees which increased by 23% this quarter and our large case business which increased by almost 35%.
It’s important to note that the bulk of our large case growth came from existing customer relationships where our understanding of the case is much better.
The growth was also well balanced by product lines with LTD sales increasing 39% on strong growth in the core market segment Short-Term Disability increasing 10% and Group life and AD&amp;D increasing by almost 27% on opportunistic sales in the large case market primarily to existing customers.
In addition sales in Voluntary Benefits grew by 21% and by 3% in the individual disability line.
In addition to the strong sales momentum our persistency for Unum US remains very encouraging increasing to 90.5% for our group benefit lines which include long-term disability short-term disability and life and for the full year 2014 from 87.7% from the full year of 2013.
The net results combined with our ongoing renewal pricing strategy generated premium growth for Unum US this quarter of 5.8%m the strongest rate of growth in several years.
I’d also emphasize Tom’s comments that we continue to see only slight improvements to premium growth from the economy and employment trends.
Likewise the Colonial Life we again had very good sales results in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Sales in the fourth quarter increased by 15.7% primarily driven by growth in the core commercial and public sector markets.
Full year 2014 sales increased by 11.6% the strongest annual rate of growth since 1990.
New and existing account sales growth were both strong as we focused on recruiting and the development of quality sales reps along with continually emphasizing reworking our existing account base.
Persistency for Colonial Life primary product lines was stable to slightly higher for the year helping to drive overall premium growth in the fourth quarter of 4.2% the highest quarterly rate since 2012.
Finally in the UK sales increased by almost 28% in the fourth quarter following an increase of 15% in the third quarter.
Group Disability sales continued to build momentum while our group life sales are re-emerging off of low results while we were repositioning that business for better profitability.
Also we are seeing much better levels of persistency in 2014.
Persistency for Group Disability improving to 90.1% from 82.2% the year before and persistency in the life block improving to 76% from 66.7% the year before.
Overall a very strong quarter and encouraging quarter for our growth rate in our core business segments.
And importantly we are also happy with the pricing we’re getting on the business that we are selling today.
As I said earlier we are continuing to see some evidence of improved topline growth from better employment and economic trends.
However that benefit does not appear to be accelerating.
My comments on our investment results mirror my comments from the past several quarters; that is continuous solid asset quality for the portfolio but continued declines in our portfolio yield as new money investment opportunities remain difficult.
While we remain disciplined in our asset selection we also remain disciplined in balancing the decisions we make on discount rate changes and associated pricing actions.
Our move this quarter with our long term disability business reflects that disciple as we put in place a 50 basis point reduction with an eye towards maintaining a healthy interest margin in new reserves.
Looking at capital management we estimate that the weighted average risked based capital ratio for our traditional US life insurance companies finished 2014 at just over 100% and our holding company cash and marketable securities was $575 million.
This comes from statutory operating earnings of $680 million for 2014 that are within our range of expectations.
Wrapping up I want to affirm our 2015 outlook for growth and operating earnings per share in a range of 2% to 5%.
I wouldn’t say that with the sharp move down in rates we’ve seen since our outlook meeting it would pressure us to the lower end of that range but we’ll have to see how that plays out in the coming month.
Also in closing I'd like to remind you that as of January 1 we’ve adopting new accounting standards for investments and qualified affordable housing projects which will reduce earnings by $0.04 in both 2014 and 2013 restated.
We’ll post the details on our website by next week.
Overall it summarizes a very good quarter with an improving topline.
Let me turn the call back to Tom for his closing comments.
Thanks Rick.
Before we move to your questions I’ll close by just repeating that we’re very pleased with our overall results this quarter and for 2014.
Our strong sales persistency and premium growth along with stable risk experience set us up well for the future.
Without question the current level of interest rate is challenging but we are confident that we are taking the necessary steps to manage effectively in this environment.
Our focus hasn’t changed.
We continue to profitably grow our business to maintain strong margins through our disciplined pricing underwriting and expense management and to generate capital which we can continue to use to support the needs of our business including investing where necessarily to support growth but also obviously continue to return capital to our shareholders.
Now this completes our prepared remarks and Debbie let’s move to the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Good mooring everybody.
Congratulations Tom and everybody.
I want to talk about – I guess probably Rick I should probably know this but in the statutory operating earnings that you show and net earnings in your capital is Unum included in there? Yes First Unum is included in there.
Okay so my understanding in the investor day you talked about $150 million stat charge for First Unum for LTC reserves.
I think came out a little bit bigger.
How do you get to $149 million that came to operations with that kind of stat charge in First Unum? Yeah.
Actually the stat charge that we have in First Unum is a direct move to capital.
So it doesn’t flow through the operating earnings that you’d see in First Unum .Although it is included in those results that actually movement in reserves flowed straight through the capital line.
Okay.
And then following up the non-First Unum stat charge the $57 million it was my impression I think from the investor day that a stat charge was unlikely and that there was significant margin if interest rates stayed where they were for a long time.
Do we take away from this that that’s not the case? Jack you want to take that one up? Yeah.
We talked about it on investor day that this was largely a GAAP charge.
As we work through and settled all the reserved numbers across the difference entities this charge emerged.
My view is it really doesn’t change anything we said at investor day.
We are still very comfortable with our GAAP reserves.
We still have a decent margin between our GAAP and stat reserves.
All these charges First Unum and the $57million were built into our capital plans for 2015 and so were reflected in our estimates for share buyback and free cash flow generation.
Okay.
Jack one more if I may on this topic and then I'll turn it over.
The $57 million was that claims reserves or ALR? It was both.
It was both.
Okay thank you guys.
We’ll take our next question from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Good morning and congratulations from us as well to everyone that transitioned.
I just want -- I had a couple of questions on that last night.
Can you give us some perspective on why announce the transition now? I know it wasn’t related to the fourth quarter charge but if you just clarify that it would be helpful.
Yeah and I do run the risk Jay of over answering a little bit here because I want to step you back a little bit.
We as a company have spent an awful a lot of time on leadership development and succession planning actually for a number of years.
And not just the management team but obviously the board has been very heavily engaged in that process and while it’s maybe not glamorous work it's essential if you are going to have good continuity and continue to maintain the principles that are important to the company which we believe strongly in.
In fact actually if you look back over the last couple of investor meetings you would have seen windows into our thought process back in 2013 as you may recall.
Kevin McCarthy has announced his retirement.
We are going through a good smooth transition of that responsibility to Mike Simonds.
This past year we talked about Randy Horn stepping out of the Colonial C.E.O.
position and a smooth transition to Tim Arnold.
And so I guess my point is this has been a continuum of work that we as a management team and a board has done.
And obviously over the years the succession of the C.E.O.
has to be part of the discussion with the board as well.
In this case it wasn’t about age or health obviously.
It really was more about when it just felt right.
And just the three things I think that were important in my mind is when it just felt right were number one feeling good about the leadership team and having a leadership team in play that has plenty of runway still ahead and they can run this business very effectively for the next five to 10 plus years.
Obviously we feel very strongly that’s the case.
The second thing is where the company actually is on a good trajectory and not just one quarter or one year but an extended period of time of solid performance.
And I think some of us feel very strongly that’s been the case.
But then lastly is how do you make the appropriate exit after having been in the role for 12 years? And that’s where I think being able to find some way to stay connected to my board activity was a part of that discussion.
I think the point was this is a continuum.
It’s one that we’ve been heavy engaged in now for five or six years.
And so there’s nothing magic about this particular day other than feeling as though all the stars are properly aligned.
Again I feel very good about what we announced yesterday.
And as we all said in our comments we are going to have a very smooth transition of leadership.
Thank you for that.
Okay.
On the topic of fourth quarter sales growth again was particularly strong year over year.
I'm just wondering if your 2015 sales growth outlook might prove conservative if any of that momentum continues into this year.
It might be good to go business by business if we could actually Jay because obviously the fundamental of each business is different a little bit.
But maybe Mike maybe just speak to Unum US sales outlook.
Yeah.
I think the bottom line quick answer Jay is I think that the guidance is still a good guidance.
We had a line of sight to what the pipeline for fourth quarter looked like when we established that.
So I don’t see the big changes there.
Just as a quick refresher we do anticipate good solid 6% to 8% sales growth across most of our segments in particular the core market group insurance segment and our long term benefits segment.
The offset to that to a degree is the large case market.
We had a very good year in 2014 but we do view that as an opportunistic place to write business.
We saw rates harden a bit as some competitors needed to re-price their books.
We certainly have the capacity and the desire to repeat 2014 in the large case market if we can do so within our disciplined pricing parameters though our business plan isn’t built around that.
We’re anticipating a bit of a decline to the tune of about10% and the net is that sales guidance around 2% to 4% which I think still holds true.
We feel good about what we bring to market.
It’s really more where is the market itself going to be? And that’s a little bit of a wild card.
Tim you want to touch on the Colonial Life? Sure.
Yeah we feel very good about the results when we finished last year.
As Rick mentioned it's the highest growth rate in the company since 1990.
With the rate at the market conditions overall we feel good about our sales team.
We feel good about the value prop that we bring to the market and the receptivity there.
Good progress across all of our market segments but we still feel comfortable with the range we’ve given before 6% to 8% on the sales side.
And Peter just last on the UK? Similar to Mike really I think in terms of 2014 we actually outperformed a little bit in the fourth quarter.
We had a large one off transaction which gave a nice clean through a round the claims buyout which gave us a bit of a following win for that fourth quarter.
So that was a little better than we expected.
When I look at the sales outlook we had 7% to 9% in 2015.
Still looking at that I think that’s still challenging particularly given the interest rate environment where our discipline and what we stand for is we will continue to put rate through and it depends on the competitor reaction on that.
But How I feel that’s good today.
Thanks so much.
We’ll go next Suneet Kamath with UBS Good morning.
Again our congratulations as well to the team.
Just wanted to go back to the Unum US LTD sales growth I think it was 25%.
I know you guys manage the pricing of new business relative to the discount rate.
But I just wanted to confirm that the discount rate adjustment that you are making here in the fourth quarter was that already reflected in the pricing that you put out to achieve this 25% sales growth rate? Mike? Yeah.
So we would -- if you think about the sales cycle it depends on the market segment that you’re in but if you’re in group insurance you think about the sales cycle in a three months range.
Where we see interest rates three to six months back that’s where sales are coming on.
But then we feel actually very good and Rick made it in the opening statements.
We feel very good about the pricing level of new business that’s coming on.
But just as Peter was saying as we look forward into 2015 and we talked about this in our guidance meeting we are going to move new business rates up.
We have been thinking low to mid and I think probably mid is better in terms of where you’ve been at with interest rates over the period of time since the end of last year.
Again feel good about the business that’s coming on.
We’ll move it up again and it will depend a bit on the market and the market conditions as how much that slows the sales growth.
But again we feel pretty good about where we are at and the ability to price new business and to renew business over the next year or two to where interest rates are.
Okay thanks.
And then I guess on Group disability and the loss ratio I think there was a comment in the prepared remarks about seeing higher claims maybe relative to the year ago.
I just want to get some color in terms of what you’re seeing where it came from and whether or not you expect that will persist going forward Mike? Yes sure.
We saw a little bit of volatility in the average size of new claims but actually pretty much within the long term expectations.
Other key factors submitted incidents bounced around a little bit quarter to quarter but paid incidents has been very steady.
And then just recovery performance offsets have been rock solid.
I'd say overall we were actually pretty happy with that continued consistency out of the risk line for LTD.
Okay and then just the last one for me on your capital generation model I guess for Rick or Jack.
If sales are at a level that’s persisting here the $150 million of capital uses that you guys talk about between interest expense and growth funding should we still expect that to be a pretty good number at these sales levels or could there be some upward pressure in terms of capital requirements if growth remains strong? Thanks it's Rick.
Actually it's a very good question and we are seeing sales results.
And I’d go back to the some of the things we talked about from an overall capital perspective.
The first place we want to put our capital is back in our business.
We are doing that and I think that we’re very happy about the premium growth.
I would tell you that where we sit today we don’t see a noticeable difference in term of how that impacts the capital plan.
We continue to grow at these type of rates and you’ve heard that we are a little bit more metered.
As we look out over the course of the year you might start seeing some of that.
But that’s a situation that we want to have and actually put more capital right back into our business.
But as we sit here today I don’t think that alters our capital plans.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
We’ll go next Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
Good morning and congratulation Tom.
The voluntary benefits the sales there are quite strong.
How does that fit in or is there a connection with the economy pricking up perhaps a little bit a little more flexibility in terms of insurance arrangements at a lot of small businesses.
Is that momentum going to continue in 2015? As you know Mark we’ve got two windows into that business.
And maybe Mike talk to the Unum U.S perspective and then Tim following on the Colonial Life piece.
Yes sure.
Thanks Mark for the question.
On voluntary we are seeing a little bit of tailwind on a couple of fronts.
We’ve seen participation at the plan level improved just a bit.
I wouldn’t say dramatically but certainly as consumers have a little bit more disposable income as the economy improves oil prices are a bit lower that helps us.
We are seeing good cross selling into our existing group insurance line.
That’s been a big driver to expanding voluntary through those relationships.
And then new clients coming on to the voluntary benefits line.
Sales were up about21% in the quarter.
It was a good year.
Overall I’d say the pipeline looks good.
That will be one of our faster growing businesses within that 3% to 4% range we talked about.
For Colonial Life we are seeing improvement in the economy coming through in our sales results especially in the small case market.
We believe that small businesses are beginning to rebound a bit with hiring in the less than 500 life segment last quarter.
Our sales growth was north of 22%.
And so we are seeing more traction in that marketplace.
We are also seeing a continued need for the products that we manufacture based on changes happening in the medical industry.
High deductibles create a need for a lot of our products.
And we also believe that our mission to protect America’s workers is resonating in the field.
We feel good about the marketplace and the momentum.
I think you made the comment and this is more macro some evidence of better underlying natural growth but not accelerating.
Anything you want expand on that? I was going to say Mark from the comments we did say that.
So you’re thinking that the one percentage type of range maybe even a little bit under that.
We haven’t seen it accelerating.
It’s been consistent.
Mike if you could add to that in terms of the natural growth.
Yeah.
The two levers for us in coverage payroll are the number of employees going up and then it’s salary that is covered for disability and life insurance that can be leveraged off of income.
And as Rick said we’ve seen probably a little bit more on the number employed.
We’ve seen a little bit weaker in terms of the growth on income.
On normal times that should be what 3% maybe? Yeah.
We would see 2% somewhere ranging around that up or down a little bit.
Okay thank you.
We’ll go next to Bob Glasspiegel with Janney Capital.
Good morning and congratulations to all as well.
When you lowered your discount rates interest rates were probably 40 50 basis points higher than they are today.
So if we got the 10 year staying where it is or 30 year whatever rate that you look at that have come down from when you set the discount rate for this year should we look for a headwind going into 2016? Rick you want to take that? Yeah certainly Bob.
What I would actually say is and that’s what I was trying to articulate around our overall view o\in the earnings I think as interest rates stay here relative to what we talked to you about in December there are headwinds and we view them as that.
And so those are things that we will have to evaluate as we get out on the year because what we reflected in December certainly was the current environment which was about 50 basis points different than it is today.
We will have to evaluate that as we get out towards the back half of the year.
there’s not much you can do over the year? I think that’s going to get an answer as we go through the year.
It’s still pretty early Bob and we just got through that process of going through the discount rate adjustments.
So it’s early to speculate on what we are going to do in the back half of the year.
But I’m saying you do have flexibility to adjust pricing midyear as well if you had to? Bob this is Mike.
Absolutely.
And so we actually -- we looked at it on a semiannual basis and frankly a little bit even more frequent than that on tactical changes.
So that’s certainly implied.
And the pound is also a headwind as well after being a helpful item for last year.
Is that sort of baked into your accounts and how much of penalty for currency from UK do you see? Rick do you want to touch that? Yeah.
So we have seen that headwind.
So we often talk about our results for the UK on a pound basis because it’s hard to chase around the currency level.
But as we roll that through in our EPS and what we’ve factored in going into next year is a level of 155 on the rate which I think we are a little bit lower than that as we sit in today.
But that’s what we’ve factored into our forward look.
So slight headwind if it stays at 152? Yes slight.
Okay.
Got you thank you.
We will go next to Jimmy Buhler with J.P Morgan.
So you reported fairly strong sales across the board but I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about just competitive conditions in the US disability market as you’ve gone through the January renewals and what you’ve seen competitors do in terms of pricing.
Mike? Yeah sure.
So it certainly remains a competitive landscape and I think that’s true in group insurance and voluntary benefits as well.
We still certainly see some players out there that are looking to grow share or in some cases actually recover some share using price as a lever but on balance.
And this is similar to what we would have talked about over the last couple of quarters.
We have seen I would say a gradual hardening in rates in the market.
We’ve got some sizeable players that are looking to improve the margins on their books and get their ROEs up from where we think industry averages are sort of in the mid-single digits.
On balance it’s actually been a more favorable environment a completive one but a bit more favorable.
And then on margins your results have been fairly stable the last several years.
But as the economy recovers are you seeing any improvement in claims incidence trends or recovery trends what is your expectations are there? I’d say we work pretty hard to diversify the book.
And heading into the downturn of the economic cycle we begin to see a deterioration in our claim incidents in recovery rates offsets.
And so I think as things begin to improve albeit very gradually I wouldn’t anticipate a big swing towards a more favorable outcome.
Consistency is probably the best guess  Okay and then just lastly a cross-section on your EPS guidance.
I think you mentioned you are more comfortable with the low end of the 2% to 5% range given the environment.
So I was wondering are you -- when you talk about growth are you talking off of the 355 for 2014 that you reported or the lower number given the change in accounting for low income housing credits? Yeah it’s actually -- Jim when you look at that it’s actually going to be off of the adjusted number that we are looking at but that’s going to be re-casted for 2014.
So we’ll have that … You’ll still be around 351 you are guessing? Yes.
So it’s going to be the $0.04 cents so it should be roughly 351.
We’ll have that out there shortly for you.
Okay thank you.
We’ll go next to Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning and congratulations as well from us here at Deutsche.
So a couple of quick questions here.
What took up the expense ratio across all the core business segments this quarter? Rick.
Actually it’s a good news story Yaron when you look at it.
Most of that is compensation given the higher sales levels that we saw.
So that’s one of those expense lines that we don’t mind paying out there.
We’d like to see that as part of our higher sales.
Okay.
And then could you quantify the variable or miscellaneous investment income what kind of impacted that? Certainly.
I actually talked about that across a couple of our lines.
Just to give you a sense of that.
We run roughly in the $15 million a quarter range at least we have over the last several years.
And so this quarter we actually saw an uptick of that in the $7 million $8 million range something like that.
What I’d remind you last quarter we saw a down tick of $7 million $8 million.
It varies around that $15 million level.
We did see a higher level in the quarter.
Maybe a little bit north of that $8 million that I mentioned but it’s – we factored it through our results and we’re just going to wait that volatility to go through but nothing new to note there.
Okay.
And then one final one and I apologize if I missed this but of the $700 million GAAP preserve strengthening in long-term care how much of that was interest rate related? The $700 million was virtually all interest rate related.
There were some pluses and minuses on the liability side.
Some of those they went in opposite directions.
They were largely offset.
I think you can pretty much assume all of that is an interest rate charge.
Great thank you very much.
We’ll go next to Randy Binner with FBR Capital markets.
Hey morning.
Congrats too on the long term carry on Unum.
I just wanted to clean up a question I think from Steve Schwartz which was a kind of getting into the element of this charge that moved out of GAAP and into stat.
I apologize if I missed it.
I haven’t been able to parse that out from the disclosures.
Was there an element of stat charging? Can you remind us of what that was versus the GAAP items that have been discussed? Maybe I'll take a shot of that Randy.
When you look at the $57 million that we recorded that I mentioned these are a lot of moving pieces as we went through that reserve charge process.
On the GAAP side we articulated it and as Jack just said it's mostly interest rates.
As you move around the different pieces as well you can have some stat impact fall out of that.
It’s nothing that I would know more than the amount of movement that happened as part of that charge and the $57 million was very much contemplated as part of our overall capital results in 2014 our capital plans in 2015.
All right and that 57 is all in the First Unum the New York? It's actually in multiple of entities.
That’s just part of the noise that came out of the process with the different entities that moved around.
Okay but similar to the rates.
And then I think one of the topics that’s been discussed in the past is kind of sizing the delta between the GAAP and the stat reserves or capital either one.
And the long term carrier is that something you can update us on just to kind of think about what the potential risk would be if there was another review? And maybe help us understand what the process would be for another kind of comprehensive review on long term care given that rates are lower than when you went through the planning process on this? So the stat-GAAP difference we’re talking about it being in the several hundred million dollar range at the investor meeting.
That’s still applicable.
That’s where it is.
I would say in general over the last several years statutory reserves have grown faster than GAAP reserves.
And so it's likely over the pursuing years that that would continue to grow.
We looked at the interest rate charge.
There’s a long term charge.
We said interest rates would stay low for the next four to five years and then revert to the mean.
The view is it’s more of how long that charge lasts given the current interest rate environment which has moved against us even since.
But we still think it's a stable place.
It has a lot of factors in it including where spreads are opportunities in different asset classes and things.
We are comfortable.
We talked about biting off a three to five year horizon.
We are still comfortable with that.
Clearly the current interest rate environment pushes it towards the front of that as opposed to towards the back.
We’ll go next to Erik Bass with Citigroup Hi.
Thank you.
One of the factors that I think you’ve mentioned that’s been driving sales is additional product sale to existing customers.
I was just hoping you could quantify the impact there and maybe talk about how much further opportunity you see? Mike? Sure.
So we see about north of 60%.
And to give you a sense actually we see in the large end of the market a number even north of that in terms of the percentage of our sales that comes from existing client relationships.
That’s important to us for three reason.
One because we understand the risk of this better.
Two it tends to come in more favorably priced because they know us and we tend to have a good service relationship.
And three is each time that we add additional lines of business into our client relationship it drives the stickiness of that account up a bit.
So if you take 2015 as we talked about low interest rates certainly a product like LTD we are going to be in there at renewal time with modest increases.
Our chances of placing those increases in the context of a broad relationship are significantly improved.
It's really the key strategic driver for us.
If you think about the runway it’s actually pretty substantial.
So we average right around three products per existing client relationship and we would see a fully integrated client be more like six or seven different lines of coverage as you think about the different demographics within the employee base.
We feel like we’ve got a long room to continue to grow within that base.
Like you were saying that’s one of the variables I think you and your team are focused aggressively on.
Other ones would be increased participation but you can get pretty granular in terms of operational things that we are doing.
And I think that’s probably part of your game plan for 2015.
Yeah it's a great point.
So in addition to additional benefit offered as part of the plan you actually look at where you have employee contribute benefits or voluntary benefits in place and what’s the participation level.
Even without the additional cross sell you can drive premium growth and improve the risk outcome that you get a better spread as you drive that participation up of that as well.
Okay thank.
That’s helpful.
And then if I could ask one follow up on long term care.
Just hoping you could go into a little bit more detail on the adjustments you made for mortality and morbidity.
And I realize in total that was offset I think by assuming the re-rates that you’ve achieved but if you could just talk about the dynamics you’re seeing there and how much of the adjustments you made are based on actually claims experience? I would say that the vest major of our current assumptions are based on our own calms experience.
We were informed by society studies.
We had bought some risk guidelines from consultants.
And so we measured our own experience against those but we did look at every assumption and I would say the vast majority of those assumptions are based on our own experience.
Got it but is it correct to read that both mortality and morbidity in isolation were slightly negative versus prior assumptions? Not necessarily actually.
Things went in different directions within there but they offset.
Okay thanks.
I guess just last on that you’ve given sensitivity to GAAP reserves for interest rates.
Is there anything similar you can provide for either mortality of morbidity such as what a 1% change in either of those factors would mean for the GAAP reserve? Yeah.
It's clearly that the long term assumptions so there is sensitivity.
But I don’t have a rule of thumb on 1% change.
Okay thank you.
We’ll go next to Ryan Kruger with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</span></strong> Good morning.
Congrats to everyone from us as well.
On I guess back to the sales growth in Unum US can you give us some underlying color on I guess if you think you’re -- in general you’re just the market is growing at a substantially higher level than it was or do you think it's more attributable to you guys gaining market share? Mike? Thanks Ryan.
Time will tell a little bit because the industry reports lag obviously the company level report.
It will take a little bit of time to actually see what happens with the market.
I’d say I'm actually encouraged a couple of points on that front.
One we had seen a slowdown in the smallest end of the market and Tim alluded to this from a Colonial Life perspective as well.
But we’ve seen a persistent drag in the less than 100 employee market and that over the last couple of quarters has really started to come back.
In fact we saw sales over 30% in that less than 100 life group insurance market.
Those are often new lines that an employer is adding for the first time.
So you’re starting to see a little bit market growth on that front.
The second component is we are seeing the addition of additional lines on the voluntary front as health plans as consumers are buying down health coverage through higher deductible plans.
That leaves gaps.
And so we are taking what might be a traditional life in the facility client and you’re in there with accident insurance and other supplemental health products.
And that’s almost always industry growth versus the swapping of business amongst carriers.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</span></strong> Got it thanks.
And then if I could one on long term care.
Can you give us or remind us what level of future premium rate increases that you guys are projecting within your long term care reserves? We don’t have an exact number for you.
I would tell you as we did at the investor meeting that we are basing that level on final rate increases.
And so the assumption we have going forward is based on filings that we’ve already made related to rate increases.
The assumption is also assuming that we get results on currently filed rate increases that are largely consistent with the results we’ve had on previously filed rate increases.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</span></strong> Okay.
So just to be clear your reserves do not to assume any additional rate increases beyond what you’ve already file? No.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse Good morning and congrats Tom.
Just had a question about how we should be thinking about cash flow generation if rates remain low here.
The $220 million or some of charges if we add up the New York sub and fair wind is that a number that we should expect to be recurring if rates remain at current levels and if you guys bake that into your capital plan i.e.
can you still do at least the low end of your buyback assumption even if rates remain low? Tom to answer that I think most succinctly would be to say that we’ve factored in the current environment into all of our plans.
So as we’ve updated things and even as I talked about some of the pressure we are seeing in the range inclusive of our capital plans reflect what we’re seeing out there today.
But can we assume though Rick that we would see similar levels greater or less of that we’ll call it $200 million or so cumulative for LPC on a stat basis.
Is that a number that we should be thinking about as recurring or is there a reason to think that that might abate or change? No I actually expect that would be much lower as we get out towards the end of the year because a lot of what actually came out of what you saw in those results both the 57 I mentioned as well as the First Unum moves had to do with the re-shaping that we did over our overall reserves.
And so I think interest rates their movement down outwards would be less impactful in terms of what we’ve seen in First Unum and wouldn’t expect things to recur in our other entities as well.
Okay thanks.
We’ll go next to Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good morning Tom.
Thanks very much.
I just wanted to clarify just to get an understanding of the difference between the 57 and what's going in your New York Company.
Should I think of those two numbers one a charge that went through your statutory income statement and one that I gather from an earlier response that went to surplus? Should I think of those two charges as independent? Jack? I'm not sure they are independent.
In fact they all came out of the same reserve review but the charge in New York was split.
So a piece of it went through the equity line and a smaller piece in showed up in statutory earnings.
Okay.
My follow-up question my second question not a follow up question but a separate question relates to your ability to increases prices and the speed with which you can do it.
My understanding is that this is not like many businesses in the sense that once you decide that you need a price increase my understanding is you can’t do it the next day.
You have to notify your sales people.
You have to notify the customers.
You have to notify your intermediaries and the brokers and then maybe I'm not sure maybe you can answer as part of can you include this as part of your response there maybe regulatory things that you need to do.
There may be IP issues that you need to deal with from a price increase.
My question what's involved and how long does it take to raise process once it becomes apparent they need it? Just to clarify Eric are you talking about the group business or you are talking about the long term care business or both actually? I'm really talking about group disability.
Group disability okay.
Mike maybe walk through just the pricing cycle processes actually because it's a great question.
Yeah it's a really good question.
I think it’s actually sometimes a little misunderstood because I think the ability to place [injuries] within your in-force block is actually a competence that has to be built over time.
And I think you actually nailed a number of the key pieces.
First you have to understand within all the cells that make up a pretty diverse block of business where do you want those increases to hit and at what level? So there is a fair amount of work that goes into that.
But actually the real work comes once you’ve decided where those increases are going to hit and it starts with as you said communication and the ability to effectively communicate with brokers and consultants and ultimately to that end clients.
You want to actually show up with not just a take it or leave it but you want to have a set of options around changes that they could be making in their plan design that could offset some of those increases so the net is a profit improvement.
But you’re given the clients some options to work with.
You want to have clear metrics in place so that you understand the balance between placing increases at various levels and risk of termination.
And then you want to have incentives lined up.
You need to have as you put a lot of work into ensuring that we’ve got a field force that is properly motivated and understands the importance of placing renewals and having a healthy book of business going forward.
It takes some amount of work to build the confidence.
I’d say we look at it.
We go through every case say over 500 employees.
Every year that it’s not in a rate guarantee it’s getting looked at and assessed.
In the core business under say 500 lives there’s a lot more transactions there.
We are going to go through somewhere between 25% and a third of those cases every year.
But you get a sense from the scale of the program.
But as far as new business is concerned interest rates are now what 40 50 basis points lower than they were just a few weeks ago.
It’s apparent I think that you need price increases on new business relative to what you were thinking about charging on new business just again two months ago.
How long will it be before you can institute price increases on new business relative to what you had planned just a couple of months ago to charge on new business? Yeah.
You can move actually pretty quickly because you have underwriting guidelines in place that give you some flexibility.
So what you do is you need to shoot towards the upper end of that range and effectively you’re placing some increase there.
And then twice a year we go through a thorough review of all of our manual files rates and make adjustments.
And so again it’s not a long cycle to think about in terms of pretty quickly on underwritten business and actually getting to the full block within six months.
And Mike I think Eric referenced in his question too regulatory involvement.
That’s not necessarily the case I don’t think in the group piece as you think about what’s needed to be responsive to the market.
Yeah.
Certainly it’s a big compare and contrast to individual products of the long-term care business where it is much more the regulatory environment is the driver.
Within group insurance you’ve got much more discretion in typically ranges that you can operate within.
Great.
Thank you very much.
We’ll take our next question from Seth Weiss with Bank of America.
Thank you for taking the questions.
I just wanted to follow up on the existing sales to current clients.
Is there a general pattern of moving some specifics products lines where now they’re say group LTD the traditional entry way and then you’ll see that flow through to other product lines or is it generally give and takes across the board? I would say it is give and takes across the board.
There is -- actually often there is a voluntary benefit relationship in place that we are bringing group insurance in or an employer paid component.
Actually our multi life individual disability which is disability income protection for higher earners tends to be a great place for us to do cross selling into those relationships as well.
If you look at it in sum total it comes from every direction but certainly having a very large block of long-term disability that’s the base that I’d say most frequently we’re cross selling into.
And I’d say most frequently we are cross selling voluntary benefits into those LTD relationships.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
And then one question on persistency and correct me if I'm wrong but I believe the persistency that you reported for 2014 it doesn’t account for any renewals that you may have lost January 1.
I think you just quickly discussed the January 1 renewals and how those came through.
Yeah sure.
You’re correct.
So it’s not reflected in that but as we look forward and you would have seen premium guidance of growth in the 4% to 6% range for Unum US and that reflects on I think pretty strong continued persistency.
We did 90.5%.
That’s a very high level but certainly somewhere in that range which we feel really good about.
Great.
Thank you very much.
We’ll go next to Ken Billingsley with Compass Point.
Good morning.
One of the questions I think I heard the answer to if it was asked have you disclosed what your new interest rate assumption is and what it was before? I think that’s a broad question Ken.
I think what I would tell you is our assumptions in aggregate across the company would have been what we saw at investor day and they have come down now from that timeframe 40 50 basis points.
As you get to the different parts of the business that’s all reflected through.
It will have different impacts in different areas but I think the best way to look at it is we are reflective in our outlook for the year now based on what we see for current rates.
I guess another way to ask this and if you don’t have an actual percentage obviously the charge infers that you made some kind of adjustment.
Can you talk about how many basis points adjustments you made from your original long-term expectations to where those expectations are now? Is it 50 basis points 100 basis points change? Yeah I think you can back into it.
The charge was a $700 million charge.
It’s largely attributable to interest rates.
We’d given prior guidance that 25 basis points change in the discount rate was worth about $400 million.
Okay.
The other question I have is regarding the sales growth and what you saw this quarter and expectations going forward.
You sound I'm positive.
A lot of large brokers even one today talked about they’re expanding their employee benefits footprint through M&amp;A.
Can you just talk about how that’s impacting your future growth prospects? It sounds like a lot of the growth is coming from existing customers.
But is there going to be an avenue maybe for even bigger growth in the latter half of 2015 into 2016 as some of these other distributors and brokers are committing to growing that part of their business? Mike maybe you can speak to the broker side but also [indiscernible] also talk about the Colonial side of the distribution equation too because they are very different but great dynamic.
Mike? Sure.
Ken we have seen that in consolidation that you are referring to.
I would say it’s been a dramatic acceleration but a good steady increase in firms coming together.
I think as they come together the rate we’ll invest on scale and some of the capabilities that they need around compliance advisory services some of the technology components that they’re bringing into employers to help them manage.
Generally I don’t see a huge impact for us.
We tend to have a good broad distribution certainly strong relationships across all the major brokerage firms.
But in general I would agree with your read that is that employee benefit in total.
But then even outside of healthcare I’d say the focus amongst brokers and advisors towards things like voluntary benefits and financial protection products like we are in the business in that level will have some focus and definitely increased the uncertainty around healthcare as well.
But Tim is going to talk through that.
For Colonial Life about 70% of our sales come from brokers.
So 30% are on a direct basis.
As we’ve seen consolidation in the broker industry we’re beginning to see brokers migrating out of the really small end of the market and that gives us a huge opportunity to serve that marketplace on a direct basis.
But we I guess 70% of our discussion with brokers we are consistently rated as one of the best businesses for brokers to do business with on the voluntary side.
So it’s still a very important marketplace for us but increasingly see the opportunities to serve the small end on a direct bias.
And just say one point causing a migration out of did you say the smaller accounts? Yeah especially the both 50 life market with the ACA middle marshal requirement and the impact that has on broker commissions.
So we’re beginning to see some migration out of that marketplace especially as brokers consolidate.
Tim that’s why I see I think some good growth because your direct sales efforts are focused on that part of the marketplace where there's a void that’s been created.
Absolutely.
For last year in the less 700 life market we are up 23%.
Very strong progress there and a real need in that marketplace too as brokers consider whether they can serve that marketplace on this.
As we see some migration those employees and employers in that segment still need advice.
And so we are there to help them with that.
And consolidation on either Unum US or with the Colonial Life has not – no one has been able to drive higher commissions or anything else to help – have you pay for obviously the compliance and technology that they’re bringing to the customer.
No.
We have definitely not seeing that.
Okay.
And the last question I may have dismissed comments at the beginning when Tom was talking about the chairman.
I thought he was referring to himself for the next two years or was that in reference to Mr.
Ryan? No.
I’ll be staying on as chairman for two years actually Ken.
So again at the annual meeting I’ll step up to the chairman role and stay on the board for two years.
Our current chairman Bill Ryan will actually step into a lead director role until he retires at the annual meeting in 2016.
Okay.
But your expectation is not to be on the board after two years or just not be chairman? I think that’s the thinking right now yeah.
But I think it’s good governance.
For a CEO to stick around at the board for too long I think is one of the things we very much don’t want to do.
I can serve in a very important role for a couple of years both with the board and with management in terms of helping assure continuity.
But I think right now we’re thinking of it as a two year period.
So I did hear that correctly.
All right well thank you for taking my questions.
We’ll go next to Steven Schwartz with Raymond James for a follow up.
Hey again everybody.
Just a quickie.
Looking at the numbers versus my numbers and of course my numbers are estimates.
I did notice that expense levels did seem kind of high.
I was just wondering in general Rick if you can comment on where expense levels may be higher than normal because of the sales and changes in the deck rules that occurred in 2010 and what have you? Yes Steven let’s come back to it.
We actually see – our sales costs were higher.
So I think growth you do see more sales out there and deck rule only have much to do with it because when we talk about our operating expense we are not factoring the decking process into that.
Good sales pay a little bit more in expenses that’s a good history.
Okay thanks.
End of Q&amp;A Thank you Steven.
I want to thank you all for taking the time.
I know this call went a little long but there was obviously a lot I thought we should touch on.
So we appreciate your participation and this will complete our fourth quarter 2014 earnings call.
Thank you gentlemen.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the Unum Group First Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead Sir.
Great.
Thank you Kelly Ann.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the first quarter 2015 earnings conference call for Unum.
Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31st 2014.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website.
I’ll remind you that statements in today’s call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
As we discuss our financial results this morning I’ll remind you that prior period results have been adjusted for our retrospective adoption of the accounting standards update for tax credit partnership investments and qualified affordable housing projects.
Adjusted prior-period results are available on our website in supplemental exhibit.
As a benchmark for full year 2014 our after-tax operating income per share as adjusted for the retrospective adoption of this accounting standard update and excluding the after-tax non-operating retirement related losses and after-tax net realized investment gains and losses was $3.51 per share.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today’s presentation can be found in our statistical supplement on our website also in the Investor section.
So participating in this morning’s conference call are Unum’s CEO Tom Watjen President Rick McKenney and CFO Jack McGarry as well as the CEOs of our core business segments Mike Simonds for Unum US Peter O'Donnell for Unum UK and Tim Arnold for Colonial Life.
And now for one last time I’ll turn the call over to Tom Watjen.
Tom? Thank you Tom and good morning everybody.
We’re off to a good start in the year with operating earnings per share of $0.89 a 4.7% increase over last year and a result very consistent with our own expectations for the quarter.
Once again this quarter we saw a continuation of many of the very positive operating trends we have seen in the past strong sales momentum accelerating premium growth in our core businesses and stable risk experience in our core businesses as well as in the closed block.
In addition our statutory earnings and capital position remain strong giving us the financial flexibility to continue returning capital to our shareholders.
We repurchased $108 million of stock in the first quarter and as we do annually the Board will be making a decision on our common stocks dividend at our May meeting.
Dividends and stock repurchases have both been important parts of our capital management strategy.
As we outlined last quarter and as Tom referenced I’ll be retiring following this year’s annual meeting and Rick McKenney will be assuming my role as CEO of the company.
I’m very pleased with how the transition is going and as planned Rick became President and Jack McGarry became CFO on April 1.
This sets things up well for me to move into the role of Chairman of the Board at the annual meeting in a few weeks.
As we said last quarter we have planned well for this transition and both the Board and I have tremendous confidence in Rick and the entire leadership team and we don’t expect to miss a beat.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Rick to cover the highlights of the quarter.
Rick? Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
I want to cover several of the key highlights of what was a very good first quarter and then I’ll turn to Jack to provide an analysis of our results in greater detail.
I’ll start first with sales where again in the first quarter we saw excellent sales results across all of our core businesses a nice continuation from our 2014 results.
Unum U.S.
sales increased by 17% for the first quarter compared to the year-ago quarter with strong results in the core market and voluntary benefits.
We saw year-over-year growth in all of our primary product lines long-term disability short-term disability and group life and AD&amp;D which was primarily driven by strong results in the core market segment where sales increased by 21%.
We did see our large case sales decline by 6% compared to the year-ago quarter reflecting our opportunistic approach to that sector of the market as well as the success we saw in 2014.
This will create difficult year-over-year comparisons but we like our positioning in this market.
At Colonial Life sales this quarter were also strong increasing 8% with solid performance in the core commercial and public sector markets.
And finally Unum UK sales continued to gain momentum increasing 6% for the quarter in local currency.
These results across our business segment continue to reflect the strength of our competitive position in our markets and today's generally more favorable conditions.
Second our strong sales trends over the past several quarters have been combined with solid persistency resulting from our ongoing focus on managing renewals on our in-force block.
In combination these have generated strong growth in our premium income.
For all of our core business segments combined premium income grew by 5% with Unum US premium growth of 6.7% and Colonial Life at 5% while Unum UK was essentially flat in local currency.
This growth is a combination of adding new customers and deepening our relationships with existing customers.
.
We are still seeing little benefit from the economic and employment growth environment at this point.
Next our risk experience remains in line to favorable relative to our expectations for our core business segments as well as in our closed block.
As a result we continue to see strong stable operating margins and returns in our core business segments.
In fact our core business segments generated an operating ROE of 14.4% for the first quarter consistent with our 2014 experience.
For the Company as a whole first quarter operating ROE was 11.5%.
These ongoing results help us maintain the financial flexibility needed to both support our business needs including the growth of our business while also returning capital to our shareholders.
In the quarter we were again active with our share repurchase program.
In addition our Board will consider an increase in the common stock dividend at the upcoming meeting in mid May.
And finally we are running the company well but we cannot ignore the primary challenge we and the rest of the industry continue to face and that being one of a low interest-rate environment.
Low yields on new money investments continued to pressure the yields on our portfolios and our investment income.
However we are actively taking this on through the pricing actions available to us in many of our products to maintain our profitability.
So with those highlights on a good first quarter performance I'll now ask Jack to cover our financial results in greater detail.
Jack? Thank you Rick and good morning everyone.
Tom and Rick have given you a high-level view of what we believe was a solid first quarter and now I'd like to review in more detail the operating and growth trends we saw in the quarter as well as provide a review of investment performance and capital management.
I'll start first with Unum US with first quarter operating earnings increased by 3.3% to $214.3 million compared to the year-ago quarter of $207.5 million with favorable premium growth of 6.7% that was offset in part by lower net investment income.
The overall benefit ratio for this segment was lower at 68.3% reflecting our disciplined approach to pricing and renewals.
Within the Unum US segment operating income in our group disability business increased to $74.3 million in the first quarter from $67.6 million a year ago; premium income increased by 6.2% our strongest rate of growth in many years on strong sales and stable persistency.
The benefit ratio was 80.1% for the first quarter compared to 83% in the year-ago quarter and 83.7% in the fourth quarter.
This is one of the lowest benefit ratios we've reported in several years driven by unusually favorable new claimants and continued favorable claim recovery experience.
We expect the benefit ratio for group disability to revert to more normal levels over the remainder of the year.
Group life and AD&amp;D operating income declined 1% to $57.9 million.
Premium income growth continues to accelerate increasing 8% in the first quarter but the benefit ratio was slightly higher at 70.9% compared to 70.3% in the year-ago quarter largely reflecting a less favorable experience in the A line.
In the supplemental and voluntary lines operating income increased 1.1% to $82.1 million in the first quarter compared to $81.2 million a year ago.
Premium income trends remained favorable in this line as well increasing 6.3% in the first quarter primarily driven by increased sales in the voluntary benefits product line somewhat offset by a decline in persistency.
From a risk perspective the individual disability line had favorable results on stable claim incidents and favorable claim recoveries.
The VB benefit ratio benefited from reserve releases driven by some large case lapses.
These reserve releases were offset by the accelerated amortization of DAP associated with the lapsed cases.
Underlying risk results in VB remain stable and in line with our expectations.
Overall it was a solid quarter for Unum US business highlighted by accelerated premium income growth and favorable risk results.
The operating ROE remains in the 13% to 14% range well above industry averages in the group businesses.
Looking at Unum UK operating income was GBP25.5 million for the first quarter down slightly from the year-ago quarter of GBP22 million.
These results are within our range of expectations but were impacted somewhat by the lower inflation in the UK this quarter.
As we invest in inflation index-linked bonds to support the claim reserves for our group policies that provide inflation-linked increases in benefits.
We expect a move in interest income and claim reserves weighted to this inflation adjustment to generally offset over an annual period but the sharp change in inflation this quarter caused a small impact to the quarter's results.
But it does not impact our outlook for the full year 2015.
Underlying risk experience in the group life line of business was favorable reflecting the repricing and repositioning actions taken in this line over the past several quarters.
Overall the margins remain in very good shape for Unum UK which generated an operating ROE of slightly over 16% for the quarter.
Colonial Life continues to generate strong consistent results with operating income of $77.6 million a 2% decline from the very favorable year-ago quarter.
Claim experience remained generally stable with a benefit ratio of 51.3% for the first quarter compared to an unusually favorable result in the year-ago quarter of 50.5%.
The underlying profitability of Colonial Life also remained strong producing an operating ROE of 16.9% this quarter.
Rounding out the enterprise for the closed block operating income was $26.7 million in the quarter compared to $28.3 million in the year-ago quarter.
Risk results were stable and consistent with our long-term expectations.
In the long-term care block the interest-adjusted benefit ratio was 87.3% for the first quarter in the middle of the 85% to 9o% range we expect but above the very favorable results of 84.7% which we experienced in the year-ago quarter.
In the closed disability block we had a very good quarter with favorable mortality experience producing an interest-adjusted loss ratio of 80% for the first quarter compared to 81.5% in the year-ago quarter.
I'll move now to our sales and growth trends across the Company which as Tom and Rick have pointed out were quite strong again this quarter.
In Unum US total sales increased 17% in the first quarter compared to a year ago a continuation of very strong growth.
The growth this quarter was particularly strong in our core market segments which are under 2 000 employees which increased by 21% this quarter for LTD STD and group life AD&amp;D combined.
Large case sales for the same product lines declined by 6% reflecting the opportunistic approach we take to large case sales and also the success we experienced in this market segment last year.
The growth was also well-balanced by product line with LTD sales increasing 14% on strong growth in the core market segment STD increasing 21% and group life AD&amp;D increasing 4%.
In addition sales in voluntary benefits grew 28% with very strong activity in the large case sector as well as solid 9% growth in the core market.
In addition to the strong sales momentum our persistency for Unum US remains strong at 88.8% for our group benefit lines for the first quarter.
These results combined with our ongoing renewal pricing strategy generated premium growth for Unum this quarter of 6.7% which was one of the strongest rates of growth in many years.
At Colonial Life we saw our continuation of last year's strong sales trends with an increase of 8% in the first quarter.
Core commercial sales and public sector sales were strong again this quarter.
New and existing account sales growth both showed increases as we focused on recruiting and development of quality sales reps along with reworking our existing account base.
Persistency for Colonial Life was slightly higher year over year helping to drive the overall premium growth of 5% in the first quarter.
Finally sales in Unum UK increased by 6% in the first quarter in local currency.
Persistency remained stable in the group disability line at 86.6% and has shown very good improvement in the group life line back to 79.3% for the quarter compared to 69.7% for the year-ago quarter as we move past the re-pricing activities of the past several quarters.
So overall we remain very pleased with the growth trends we see in our core business segments.
As Rick mentioned earlier we are seeing only minimal evidence of improved top-line growth and better employment in economic trends at this point.
Now quickly looking at investment results we remain very pleased with the quality of the portfolio but obviously challenged by the level of new money yields.
Our practice is to remain disciplined in our asset selection and also remain disciplined in balancing the decisions we make on discount rate changes and associated pricing actions.
With our move in the fourth quarter to lower the Unum US LTD discount rate by 50 basis points we have been instituting the necessary pricing actions on new sales and renewals in order to maintain a healthy interest margin and reserves.
Moving to capital management the weighted average risk-based capital ratio for traditional US life insurance companies remains at just over 400% and our holding company cash marketable securities was $426 million reflecting the $108 million of share repurchases in the quarter.
Statutory operating earnings were $156 million for the first quarter a favorable quarter relative to the experience of first quarter 2014 reflecting the favorable risk experience we saw in several of our business lines.
Wrapping up I want to affirm our 2015 outlook for growth in operating earnings per share in a range of 2% to 5% up to $3.51 per share operating earnings in 2014 as adjusted for the accounting update.
Just as we indicated last quarter given the drop in rates since our outlook meeting in December we expect results for the year to be toward the lower end of the range but we'll need to see how that plays out over the balance of the year.
Overall it was a good quarter and a good start to the year.
Now I will turn it back to Rick for his closing comments.
Great.
Thanks Jack.
Before we move on to your questions I will just say again I'm very pleased with our overall results for the quarter and our solid start to the year.
Combination of strong sales and premium growth along with another quarter of stable risk experience position us well for the balance of the year.
While there continue to be challenges the most significant of which remains the current level of interest rates I'm very confident we can take the necessary actions to manage effectively in this environment.
I'm also pleased with the progress we have made in implementing our succession plan and we look forward to completing the implementation of our plan in a few short weeks at our annual meeting.
We'll certainly miss working with Tom on a daily basis but will continue to benefit from his experience and leadership in his new role as Chairman of our Board.
We have a great team in place and remain in an excellent position to capitalize on the opportunities we see in our markets.
We'll give Tom a chance to close things out in a few minutes but first let's take your questions.
Kelly Ann let's move on to the question and answer session please? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Seth Weiss with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
If I could start on supplemental and voluntary line if you could give a little bit more color on the dynamics of sales and persistency obviously very strong sales quarter year over year persistency a little bit weak.
Any commentary on market dynamics there would be helpful.
We will turn it over to Mike to talk about what's going on in the US and turn it back over to Tim to talk about Colonial Life as well on the voluntary side Thanks Rick and good morning Seth.
So supplemental and voluntary was a strong quarter from a sales perspective and we've alluded to earlier 28% growth.
Underlying a big chunk of that growth was one particular large sale.
I think if you were to peel that out you'd see Unum US brokerage voluntary sales results more in that mid to high single-digit growth which is more the longer term trend.
It's worth just stopping for a second on that large case sales so while we wouldn't look for that to repeat it is indicative of our strategy of growing within our existing client base.
That particular client is a long-term group insurance client and the ability to add voluntary has been a big part of our growth over time.
We did see a bit of a tick up in lapses particularly a couple of large cases and if you dig into it I think we would say it's a little bit more volatility than anything else actually both the two largest were related to merger activity at the client where they were integrating into a broader benefits program.
So something that we watch quite closely but I don't think the start of a longer term trend.
Overall we're pleased with the results we had for growth in the first quarter of Colonial Life.
We saw a very strong growth in our target markets mid and small commercial accounts as well as public sector.
We saw 12% growth in our new accounts which is a really strong indication of the value profit we have in the marketplace and a very very strong 37% growth rate in public sector.
So the places that we're targeting we're seeing good results and we had nice growth overall despite the fact there was some weakness in our large case segment in the core.
Just one real quick one on investment income.
You highlighted it in the release multiple areas miscellaneous investment income lower than last year.
It looks lower than the norm.
Could you just help us quantify what that impact was on earnings versus maybe a more normalized level and similar question in terms of the UK low inflation maybe what earnings impact that had specifically? Jack you want to take that one? Yes.
So the miscellaneous net investment income it was lower certainly than first quarter last year at about $10 million.
It's slightly below that kind of run rate average we tend to see miscellaneous net investment income in the $10 million to $15 million range.
That was at the low end of that range but it's been volatile all the time.
So it's hard to predict and we see these swings.
It doesn't change our outlook for net investment income for the year.
We're expecting the U typically when you get lower inflation length investment income it gets offset in reserves because the benefits come down as well.
That little bit unusual this first quarter because the UK actually had a deflationary period and so the index link net investment income was actually negative.
You can't reduce reserves as a result of that and so there was a mismatch of a couple of million pounds in the result.
We don't expect the UK to be in a deflationary period over the full year so we expect to get that back over the remainder of the year and we stand by the outlook for Unum UK for the year.
We will move next to Ryan Krueger with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
I had a question about group sales.
Are you seeing better growth for the industry overall at this point or is your strong growth more a reflection of market share gains as some competitors have pulled back? Let me turn to Mike to talk about the group markets.
I think it's a little bit of both.
We certainly have seen the economy is slowly improving and we've also seen the distraction that came with healthcare reform and not that everyone has got ACA figured out but I think it's starting to settle in a bit.
And we are seeing employers and brokers and consultants more focused on our lines of business and that's part of a trend we've seen over the last I'd say four or five quarters.
So I do think we're starting to see some degree of expansion rounding out benefits programs and then there is a bit of business moving between carriers.
We've seen industry level ROEs for the group insurance line sort of in the mid-single digits and so there's some work that's ongoing with a number of carriers and that's putting some business out to market as well.
And then one on capital management so normally you guys have certainly been active in buybacks and in dividends over time.
You haven't done much M&amp;A.
Do you have any appetite for M&amp;A at this point just thinking in terms of you have pretty large market shares in a lot of your lines so would you see any benefit in M&amp;A? I think we've been pretty consistent over time talking about M&amp;A and this is a place we would like to put our capital first and foremost.
We're going to put it into our business but to grow our business through M&amp;A is something we desire.
You can think of that on multiple fronts.
One is that we require blocks because we think we can actually manage blocks very well.
The second is we look at capabilities we can add across the Company.
Those might be smaller transactions that bring us specific capabilities.
And too we also look to expand our reach and our footprint in different geographies different product lines et cetera realizing that we're going to do so in a very disciplined way.
And so I think over time you haven't seen us do M&amp;A and part of that's been because of the discipline we've maintained over that period of time.
But it is a place we'd want to put our capital and it's a place that we have been very active in the M&amp;A markets and the pipeline of things that have been out there and you'd expect to see us do that in the future as well.
And we do it -- just to reiterate we do have the capital flexibility as we've said to act on those type of transactions.
And from Credit Suisse we'll go to Tom Gallagher.
Just following up on the capital management discussion Rick.
So if I look at the quarter end cash balance at the holding company $426 million at least based on how I'm calculating that that's about 1.3 times coverage ratio and I think historically you've talked about one to one and half times so my question is are you comfortable with this level? Do you need to replenish and build it all at the Holdco? And how does that influence your thoughts on buybacks for the next several quarters? Yes Tom we are very comfortable with our cash position but I'll turn it over to Jack to talk more about how we see that over time and in the broader context of our capital management our holding company cash as being one element.
Tom so we're at $426 million it's 1.3 times.
Our range now is in the one to two times.
One of the things we have we have a $400 million credit line currently that allows us to run a little thinner on cash than we had historically.
You remember it's expensive to hold cash in the current environment because of the rates you get on it so we are running a little thinner.
I'd also point out that that first quarter tends to be a low point in the cash in the year because of some of the things that can do.
It's heavy -- it's a heavy quarter for interest payments it's going to be first and third quarter driven.
It's also a heavy quarter because we pay a company bonus in the first quarter that comes out of cash so we do expect that to drift upward over the remainder of the year.
That number is very consistent with the capital plan we put together and the guidance we gave you on that at the investor meeting in the $400 million to $600 million range of share repurchases.
So we're quite comfortable actually with where we are.
And then just as a follow up to that Jack.
So if I thought about available capital flexibility if there was an opportunity that would give you -- if you went down to one times that would give you $100 million of excess cash of the holding company.
How much debt capacity would you say you would have if something attractive came along? We would certainly have debt capacity.
We're currently at a debt-equity ratio of 25%.
I think for the right opportunity we'd be very willing to go above that.
We also have excess capital in our subsidiaries.
We're holding risk-based capital ratio in that 400%.
We've stated a target in the 350 to 400 range so for the right opportunity we're very comfortable we could take on more debt.
We would have excess capital at the holding company and there are other alternatives relative to how attractive the acquisition target is so we're very comfortable we could be a player.
And then one last one.
So from what I gather the NAIC is proposing some changes to rules and financing related to captive reinsurance and they're targeting variable annuities and long-term care.
Just curious if you've watched that proposal closely and what you see the impact or the potential impact for Unum? We're actually quite comfortable.
If you remember last year we re-domesticated our Bermuda-based captive to Vermont.
When we did that we actually moved the reserve and capital bases to the NAIC reserve model.
And so as a result I think we were ahead of that action and so we're in a place where we're basically holding the NAIC reserve bases as though it was a domestic insurance company.
And we'll move on to Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Just a couple of questions; first if you could talk about pricing trends overall in the group disability and group life market and then secondly just on long-term care your progress on raising prices in the block and the possibility of addition to stat reserves.
I think the last few years you added to the stat reserves for the New York entity but what's the possibility of you doing that again this year? Jimmy we'll start off with Mike on the pricing trends in the group business.
Thanks Rick.
Good morning Jimmy.
What I would say and you would've seen it reflected in our results over the last several quarters we've seen a bit of firming in the external environment.
I'd say a lot of that attributable to what we were talking about earlier where we've got some loss ratio issue across a number of different carriers in the space.
We've seen a more rational environment and you've seen that reflected in some of our growth numbers.
I think a key issue will be going forward as we continue as Rick and Jack spoke to as we continue to price and renew business with an eye toward the current interest rate environment.
Will the market continue to move along with us on that front? Universal issues.
Our expectation is that it will but we're not going to sacrifice the discipline around our underwriting standards in pursuit of growth.
So we are somewhat cautiously optimistic about going forward but that will be something we'll need to watch pretty closely.
And Jack you want to talk about the long term? Yes.
Long-term care we're very pleased with the progress we're making on the rate increase front.
As we mentioned we filed a rate increase request with enhanced options for people to basically buy out of the rate increase by reducing their inflation percent in their contract.
That has been very well received by regulators.
We're seeing good success in getting approvals for that and actually will be looking for.
We haven't sent out our first option to policy holders but we're very comfortable with where we are and very comfortable with the assumptions we've put into the reserve assumptions around rate increases.
We've strengthened New York certainly.
We've not strengthened any other statutory reserves in the Company.
As we mentioned in December we still have a gap between our statutory reserves and our GAAP reserves.
We feel comfortable with that margin.
New York is still under pressure.
Certainly the pretty harsh environment relative to the future outlook for interest rates as well as rate increases and the guidance that we gave before that if you look to our historical kind of trends in New York as being indicative of what the future may bring I think we would still stand by it.
Assuming no major changes in rates most likely you'll end up contributing at least a little bit later this year? Yes.
We'll move on to John Nadel with Piper Jaffray.
I had a question for you maybe a follow up just as it relates to capital flexibility.
I know any particular deal can be more or less attractive based on competition for the asset valuation et cetera.
But Jack I appreciate the comment that you can go above a 25% debt to cap if there's some plan in place.
Can you give us some sense for how far above that level you think you can go in a relatively short-term period of time? John this is Rick.
I think the first thing you have to make sure that the deal makes sense.
If you're looking at something that's the first and foremost what is the strategy that underlies that type of transaction? How does it fit with the overall fold? What do we do with it? Is it something that we can actually improve upon and you have to start there.
I think what we're telling you from a capital perspective is that we've proven that to ourselves and we see the types of returns we're looking for we can make available capital.
And so without getting into all the nuances of specifics on leverage and things like that coverage ratios we have out there cash other instruments that are available to us; there's plenty of things that we can do but I take you back to the most important thing is that making sure it fits and making sure we go through the transaction in a very disciplined way.
Certainly appreciate that.
And I don't suppose with the changes in management given you've been at the firm for now a number of years Jack's been in place.
Despite being in new roles it wouldn't be fair for us to presume that managerial changes or executive ranks changes would really change the approach to M&amp;A right? I think that's absolutely true and I have Tom sitting here next to me and I think it's one of those things that you can see in this team.
The transition is going to be seamless and we're focused on that.
We have all been around this table for some time dealing with these different things and I think that what you've seen out of us in the past is what you should expect out of us in the future in terms of how we act.
And then my other question is a bit more fundamental.
In the Unum US particularly the group disability side I think you mentioned in the release very favorable I believe was the term claim recoveries in the quarter.
I was hoping you could sort of dive into a little bit more deeply maybe give us a sense -- some way of getting a sense for order of magnitude what kind of impact that may have had.
The 80% benefit ratio obviously is a very exceptionally low level relative to where we've seen it particularly given the discount rate change.
Yes.
Actually John in the script we mentioned very favorable new claim incidents and continued favorable recovery experience.
So our recovery experience was favorable.
It's been trending favorable for quite a time now probably the biggest change was in new claim incidents and severity very low new claims on volumes in the quarter relative to expectations and so I think that was more the driver of the change in the loss ratio than the recoveries and again we think that's largely aberrations as opposed to trends.
Okay.
So that's not -- well clearly you're not altering your view overall for guidance so it sounds like you're not altering your view for what you think a normal of claims incidents is either.
John I think that's right.
It was a good quarter and we certainly put that on the books but we look forward to reverting a little bit to more what we've seen in the past.
And from Colombia Management we'll go to Al Copersino.
The drop in large case sales in Unum US first I'm happy to see the continued discipline that you guys are showing you mentioned relating to that drop in sales a tough comp and you also mentioned I think you mentioned something about competition level you said your opportunistic approach to that market.
Wonder if we can get a bit more color on those two things and also if there was anything related to a third reason why large case sales might drop which was any desire to shift your mix your sales or premium mix at all? Great thanks Al.
Mike? Thanks Rick.
So good question.
I think you read it right it's an opportunistic market and so in the first quarter of last year we had one large transaction in particular but a couple on the new business front that did not recur this year.
I wouldn't read into it anything other than it's a little bit of a lumpy flow of sales in that market and we'll absolutely remain disciplined find opportunities which in a high degree of frequency those opportunities come with existing clients adding new lines of business.
We saw north of 60% of our sales in the large end of the market come from existing client relationships.
That's great for us because it comes in more favorably priced and even more importantly the deeper the relationship the better the persistency assumption that we have for that client which is big profitability driver for us.
In terms of continuing to shift the mix I think what we would continue to see a little stronger growth in the core but actually when we look at our margins in the large employer group insurance market compared to the core we've got them both running right about where we want them.
So we would like to see growth where we can have it in large case and don't need to see a dramatic shift in the mix between the two segments.
I have one other question if I could which is the hit to investment income in the UK from the low inflation and in fact deflation for a while I may have missed it in the press release was there a dollar impact that you all disclosed on that? Yes.
We didn't disclose a dollar impact in the press release but it was orders of magnitude in the GBP4 million to GBP5 million pound range.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much and Tom congratulations.
Thank you Al.
Next we'll hear from Humphrey Lee from Dowling &amp; Partners.
So just a follow up on the capital flexibility and the M&amp;A discussion.
So you mentioned you would be interested in potentially some acquired blocks of adding capabilities as well as geographic reach.
Any specific product lines that you would be interested in and the same thing for geographic reach? Sure.
Just give you a little bit of color on that but not too much as we talk about our M&amp;A processes.
When you think about the business we're in today and the employee benefit space we actually have pretty good reach across our product lines so I would say there's not really any holes we need to fill in through M&amp;A transactions.
Even in the last several years we have a dental offering we've done through partnership et cetera.
So when I think about that the block transactions would be as opposed to filling larger holes might be in fill in some areas where we could use some help and that's something we'll always look it.
And then when you think of geographic expansion if you think of the UK business it was built through a series of acquisitions over many years and when we look to the dynamics of other geographies around the world that have similar dynamics to what we have today we'd be interested in expanding there as well but I put that all in the caveat of we do so in a disciplined way and make sure that things are meeting our hurdles and our growth expectations that we have.
And then going to Unum US the full-year guidance of sales was [2.4%] and based on your production in the first quarter even if sales were flat year over year for the balance of the year do you still hit the upper end of your [indiscernible] should we expect sales likely to exceed your target for the year in Unum US? Mike? I think at this point there's a lot of work between the end of the quarterback and the end of the year.
At this point we wouldn't come off the guidance.
You've done the math correctly it would be roughly flat remaining three quarters to be within the guidance and I do think we feel very good about how we're positioned in our market and are very pleased with where sales are coming from: strong core market growth strong voluntary benefits growth 60% plus of premium coming in from existing clients.
No reason to think we won't continue to see some degree of growth but all that being said two things to keep in mind.
One is tougher comps in the quarters to come given the strong results we had in sales last year and the other is back the pricing environment where we're going to maintain discipline be sure we're pricing forward based on today's interest rate environment and we'll wait to see what the rest of the industry does along those lines.
Okay.
If I could just sneak one more in.
Given the strong growth of your selling would you be trading off between buybacks as opposed to deploying [indiscernible] top-line growth? Actually could you repeat the question please? Yes sure.
So given the strong growth that you're seeing across the lines are you trading off capital deployment for business growth as opposed to buybacks? We are seeing strong growth across the lines.
That does take some capital to support it but the growth is not inconsistent with what we expected when we put together our capital plan so we're pretty comfortable with where we are.
From UBS we'll move to Suneet Kamath.
Just want to follow up on the sales.
I think we touched on this last quarter but as we think about the first quarter results and how you're pricing are you now fully reflecting in the change to the discount rate that you made as well as the current interest rate environment or do you need to do some more work on pricing if current interest rates remain kind of where they are? It's Mike Suneet.
Thanks for the question.
What I say is we moved on rates again to the end of last year and into early this year so what we're putting out for quotes would reflect.
What I would tell you though is that the sales cycle is such where it takes a little bit of time to fully burn in.
So I would anticipate that actual sales numbers haven't fully felt the latest round of increases given interest rates but we've begun to see some of that and it'll play out over the next couple of quarters.
I guess is your customer base sort of sensitive to that? In other words are some of the strong sales that we've seen a result of an anticipation on their part that might as well lock it in now before we get a rate increase related to low rates? No.
I think they wouldn't have that sort of line of sight.
So I don't think they're anticipating rate increases to come at this point.
Okay.
And then just to follow up on Humphrey's question about capital requires for growth.
Jack is there like a rule of thumb you can give us even if it's very high level in terms of a ratio of capital to new sales or something just as we think about the pace of growth going forward and what the capital needs are there? We don't typically discuss that in detail.
And there's a lot of things that go on in your capital management plan so it's not really -- it wouldn't be right to just single out one single factor.
One indication of the strength is the free cash flow generation because a piece of the capital you're putting up isn't just -- it's not just the risk-based capital it's also the acquisition costs and the statutory reserves and we had strong first quarter on stat income that despite the growth and so we're comfortable with where we're going going forward.
And then just one last one on M&amp;A and we've talked on these calls about Unum as a buyer but I just wanted to get Rick and Tom's view of how the Board might think of Unum as a potential target if we live in a world where consolidation US life insurance continues? You want me to take that one Rick? Yes you're the chairman.
Everyone's looking at me.
We got to put them both in.
Again I think nothing has changed in this regard.
We're very confident in the business plan we have as a company.
I think you get that sense from the things that we've said and done it's the fact that we've delivered on the results that you've seen us deliver on.
The fact that actually we still have tremendous growth the ahead of us and tremendous capital flexibility.
So we will continue to look at acquisitions and as Rick and Jack have said we'll be sure that we do them in a way that remains disciplined.
We've looked at deals actually for a number of years.
That's isn't going to change as we look forward.
You raised the other issue which is in parallel.
We can't ignore other opportunities to look at a transaction involving this company.
It's not something we spend a lot of time thinking about because we have a lot of confidence in the future of the business you see the growth you see the returns you see the return of capital to our shareholders and that's not changing.
So again most of our time is spent on growing the business organically it's spent on looking at some acquisitions that could add to that growth potential and if somebody taps on the door they tap on the door but we do it from a position of strength.
Got it.
Bottom line if you get the call you take the call.
And the Board has the responsibility to do so.
So I think every pubic company's chairman and board should hopefully be saying exactly the same thing.
You can't ignore those calls but again in our case we do it with a very solid plan as an independent company and one that really has an incredible future ahead of itself as independent company.
So we do it from a position of strength.
We'll go next to Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
Could you talk a little more about the UK market the pricing and competition that you're seeing there.
Your operating profit and constant currency was down a little bit how do you see that playing out through the balance of the year? Sure.
We'll turn it over to Peter O'Donnell in our UK business.
In terms of the pricing there's really no change in the market conditions in the UK.
It remains very competitive.
All of our competitors talk the talk about pricing discipline and ensuring that they right profitable business but we do still see irrational behavior particularly at the large end.
In the protection world we're focused on growing the markets most of the competitors are trying to gain market share.
They find us very difficult to pitch against and that creates pricing pressure but in general we can write at a premium because our proposition is strong.
In the life markets we're focused on the small and medium end.
We're seeing small growth there as we continue to invest our distribution and we're opportunistic at the large end where we can write business at our margins but that comes and goes really.
In terms of the overall profits just reiterates our forecast which was 1% to 3%.
We were sort of in that range for the full year.
In terms of where we ended the first quarter what we saw as Jack referred to was an issue around timing of profit recognition due to inflation so we'd expect the slight shortfall we saw in the first quarter to sort of come back over the next three quarters.
And we'll take a follow-up from Colin Devine with Jefferies.
Thanks.
I'm just curious as we think about the strength of sales particularly in Unum US and this is maybe over the last couple quarters but maybe we can focus in on 1Q.
And not taking anything from organic growth that you're generating but I'm just curious how much of that growth on a year-over-year basis Mike you might attribute to just simply pricing; the price per $1 000 of coverage being higher now versus a year ago? Yes.
That's a really good question.
We have seen a little bit of -- so we would look at sort of the average premium per life and then that flows into an average case.
We have seen that edge up a bit.
I wouldn't think it's a huge component driver but it is reflected in the sales numbers and I think it's consequential in the earned premium numbers and should be actually over the next couple of years; particularly in disability as we go through renewal programs that reflect again the interest rate but also the aging of that population and the associated risk.
So I think that will be a contributor for us.
Maybe a few percentage points of growth or is it not even that much? Yes that's probably about right.
Couple questions first on the investment side I was wondering if we can talk a little bit about prepayments what they added across the various business lines and your outlook for the rest of the year and where you see the core yield for the portfolio going if rates kind of fold here? That's the first one.
Second ROE for Tom and for Rick seems to really have kind of settled in here just 11% to 12%.
What can you do to improve that? I certainly appreciate it's a little unique given the size of the closed block and what it represents of your general account.
But what are some actions you can take either to strengthen that or alternatively on the CapEx side to improve your back office processing efficiency? And then just a final clarification from Mike.
When you mentioned the impact of rates into your pricing taking effect is the issue really that your second biggest renewal period is mid-year and that's when these should really -- we should start to see them? Thanks.
Thanks Colin.
Jack you want to talk a little bit about prepayments? Yes.
So miscellaneous net investment income actually comes from two places the bulk of it tends to be prepayments and we've been running as I said in the $10 million to $15 million a quarter range tends to be pretty volatile.
A lot drives that and in particular mergers and acquisitions tends to be a big factor in those payments.
So we were off a little bit in miscellaneous net investment income in the first quarter relative to the mid-point of that range but we would expect it to be within that range for the full year.
The other piece of miscellaneous net investment income is more equity investments that we make and again those tend to be volatile as well but have been in line with expectations over the year.
On your second question Colin.
In terms of ROE I think we have had a very stable ROE where it is today.
When you think about the biggest impact towards our ROE and why we haven't seen the growth out of that has actually been the interest rate environment.
So every year we kind of come to you with the interest rate headwind that we've got out there has actually slowed the ROE or the return growth that we would have expected.
So that's something we're working through over time as we price forward et cetera but it's not something we can necessarily fix on day one.
The second piece you mentioned is what are the actions we can take around our closed block which does consume roughly a third of our capital at lower returns because I would remind you that our business lines our core business operations are generating very strong very good ROEs and the reality of that closed block is challenging.
The reality of the situation with the closed block is we would like to take actions to alleviate some of the size of our closed block particularly the long-term care business we have today.
The markets are not that conducive to helping us to do that although you hear rumblings of that changing over time more people being interested in alleviating or taking on that risk through reinsurance and other means.
We certainly stay abreast of that but we don't see anything in the near term that will fix that.
So that's the other challenge that we have is how do we wrestle with that over time but don't want to minimize how important it is that our good strong ROEs and our core operations maintain their very good levels and the closed block will be worked on over time.
Possibility.
I would not say that's something that's imminent.
I mentioned reinsurance as being a one-way gap.
Before you can really get to the securitization market you need to start to see some of that develop I think.
But I think it's something with the north wind in our individual disability block we have the history and the expertise to do securitizations and it's certainly something in our toolkit that we would like to deploy but we don't see it necessarily there today.
What about on the back office? Is the other way to connect this to improve your claims processing efficiency or do you feel you're as good as you can be right now? Well there's always room for improvement.
We talk about that within our teams and it's something we've talked about maintaining a very good operating expense ratio that the teams have done.
But once again I'd go back to those core operations are generating very high returns so it's not a problem in there that needs fixing but it's something we can always get better and I think our teams do a good job of focusing on that continuous improvement.
Thank you.
Thanks Colin.
You had a question for Mike as well on the rates.
Yes just very quickly.
You're right 7/1 July 1 that's the second effective date so we'll see how that plays out particularly in small case market where we're generating quotes and pricing renewals.
Though I would keep in mind that as you move up market when you're in the large case market those are being worked on for January 1 effective right now so we really are going to see it play out not just in the coming months but over the coming two three quarters.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I have my comments to Tom.
It's hard to imagine how far the Company has come under your tenure and best wishes.
Thank you Colin.
Thanks for all your support and good counsel over the years.
We'll go to Ken Billingsley with Compass Point.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to just follow up one from the press release.
You said that on the long-term care side it was a higher benefit ratio due to a higher level of submitted claims.
Can you just talk -- is there a frequency shift something that's maybe one time in nature or were there more claimants coming into the system than is expected? Jack you want to take that? Yes.
I think that comment was more relative to the first quarter of 2014 which was an unusually favorable quarter.
Actually you remember the first two quarters of 2014 had unusually favorable new claim experience in long-term care kind of reverted back more to the norm in the second half of the year.
And so what we saw this quarter was very consistent with where we ended last year.
We're right in the middle of our loss ratio range so I would point to the first quarter of 2014 being the aberration as opposed to this quarter.
Submitted claims was it like procedural claims or just new claimants coming in and making first-time claims? Yes.
It's just new claimants coming in making first-time claims.
First-time claims okay.
The other question was just a follow-up comment and I believe Jack had said -- it was regarding employment growth and I just want to clarify I didn't quite catch it all.
I believe you said it's only seen a slight improvement in trends from employment growth did I hear that correctly? Yes you did.
I would imagine that there is an expectation that from a sales perspective maybe -- I'm kind of reading between the lines that maybe it's a little bit weaker than you expected given employment growth and that if it picks up there's a wider runway to work with? Yes.
It's actually not a number that comes through sales it's just kind of natural growth that as companies add employees and as wages increase since the premiums are a function of the overall payrolls of the companies; that's the way it would come in so we call it natural growth because it just kind of happens.
And it's not just employment growth it's also wages have a big impact on that and so the economy is growing it's adding jobs just thus far it doesn't appear to be adding jobs in the places we have concentration.
So there's been a lot of part-time work kind of lower wage jobs that aren't really flowing through to our premium level right now.
We're cautiously optimistic that as the economy continues to improve that we will see some lift from that over time.
And adding to that a renew effort from the expanded employee benefits practice and brokers who maybe are less distracted by ACA? Yes.
That's definitely been a factor in the sales we're seeing over the past couple quarters.
Past few quarters great.
Thank you for taking my question.
Thanks ken.
And that is all the time we have for questions.
I'll turn it back to you all for closing remarks.
Well good.
This is Tom Watjen.
Let me just make one remark.
First off thank you all for joining us today.
As I mentioned this is my last quarterly call.
I want to reiterate something I'd said earlier which is I step away with tremendous confidence in Rick and the entire leadership team and the business plan that they've laid out that we will do very very well going into the future.
And as we said before we won't miss a beat whether it's miss a beat on operations or whether it's miss a beat on strategic opportunities that we see in front of us.
I can assure you of that.
And I'll close by just saying I want to thank all of you for your support over the 12 years I've been CEO.
We covered an awful lot of ground together and I'll miss that exchange and want to wish each of you all the best.
Operator this now completes our first quarter 2015 earnings call.
Thank you everyone.
Again that does conclude today's conference.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the Unum Group Second Quarter Earnings Results Conference.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead Sir.
Great.
Thank you Lisa.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the second quarter 2015 earnings conference call for Unum.
Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are also located in the sections titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31st 2014.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website at unm.com.
I’ll remind you that statements in today’s call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
As we discuss our financial results this quarter I’ll remind you that prior period results have been adjusted for our retrospective adoption of the accounting standards update for tax credit partnership investments and qualified affordable housing projects.
Adjusted prior-period results are available on our website in supplemental exhibit.
Also a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today’s presentation can be found in our statistical supplement on our website in the Investor section.
Participating in this morning’s conference call are Unum’s President and CEO Rick McKenney and CFO Jack McGarry as well as the CEOs of our core business segments Mike Simonds for Unum U.S.
Peter O'Donnell for Unum UK and Tim Arnold for Colonial Life.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Rick McKenney.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
The second quarter was another solid one for Unum with opertaing eararnings per share of $0.89.
slightly trailing the year ago results of $0.90 per share.
While our risk results showed somewhat higher volatility in some of our U.S group line this quarter we also saw the continuation of many of the positive operating trentds we've seen in the past most notably strong premium growth in our core businesses.
In addition our statutory earnings remain healthy and capital position is strong providing us with excellent financial flexibility.
I want to cover a few of what I believe are the key highlights of the quarter and then I’ll turn to Jack to provide announcements of our results in greater detail.
I will start first with sales where as expected we experienced some moderation from the strong growth we’ve enjoyed over recent quarters to a more normal long-term level of growth.
Unum U.S.
sales increased by 1% for the second quarter compared to the year-ago quarter.
By market segment we saw continued momentum in the core segment which we define as less than 2000 employees with year-over-year growth of 4%.
We did see sales decline in the large case segment which is a market we approach on opportunities phases and where sales can be more volatile.
At Colonial Life sales continued at very continued growth at very good levels increasing almost 6% with solid performance in the core commercial segment and public sector and finally Unum UK sales continue to gain momentum increasing 6% for the quarter in local currency second with continued good sales momentum along with healthy levels of persistency across all of our business lines we continue to experience very good growth in our premium income.
Our core business segment on a combined basis generated premium income growth of 5% over last year with Unum U.S.
premium growth of 7% Colonial Life at 6% and Unum UK up 1% in local currency.
Next our benefits experience overall remains within our range of expectations though we did experience pressure this quarter particularly in our U.S.
Group life.
On a quarter-to-date on a year-to-date basis our disability lines were in line with prior year with the challenging second quarter mostly offsetting a very good first quarter.
And in Group life and AD&amp;D we saw pressure as well.
Other lines of business benefited from favourable results especially the close block in Colonia Life.
Importantly our margins remain very healthy across our core business segments.
And Jack will detail these trends by business segments as commentary.
With these ongoing solid results and good statutory results we continue to maintain a very strong level of financial flexibility.
This enables us to support our growth needs while also returning capital to our shareholders.
This quarter we repurchased over $100 million of our shares and will implement a 12% increase in our dividend effective with the payments we’ve made in the coming weeks and finally as we have discussed with you for some time the primary challenge we continue to face in the ongoing low interest rate environment.
Interest rates and investment spreads were somewhat higher in the second quarter however they remain well below historic levels.
I’m pleased however with how we’ve been able to manage through this low rate environment over the past two years and with the actions we have been able to implement to maintain healthy profit margins in our business segments.
So with those highlights on our second quarter performance I will now ask Jack to cover our results in greater detail.
Jack? Thank you Rick and good morning everyone.
Rick gave the high level view of what we believe is the solid second quarter and I would like to review more detail the operating and growth trends we saw in the quarter.
I’ll start with Unum U.S.
where second quarter operating earnings were $202.8 million a decline of 6% from the year ago quarter of $215.8 million.
Premium income growth was strong increasing 6.8% over the year ago quarter.
The pent up ratio for the U.S.
segment increased slightly to 71.2% in the second quarter compared to 70.4% in the year ago quarter as we experienced negative volatility in our U.S.
Group Life business.
In addition net investment income declined by 1.1% primarily reflecting the ongoing decline in yields on our invested assets.
Within the Unum U.S.
segment operating income in our Group disability business was $61.2 million a decline of 15.8% from the year ago quarter at $72.7 million while premium income continues to build momentum increasing by 71.1% over the year ago quarter we saw continued pressure on net investment income which declined by 1.8% in the quarter.
In the higher benefit ratio which increased 83.4% in the second quarter compared to 81.9% in the year ago quarter.
The benefit ratio was impacted by higher new claimants and higher average size claim in our LTD product line driven in part by the 50 basis point reduction in the discount rate for new claimant implemented in the fourth quarter of 2014.
We believe this quarter’s results reflect negative volatility that will occur in this line from quarter-to-quarter including the very favourable first quarter experience the benefit ratio for the first half of 2015 is 81.8% compared to 82.5% for the first half of 2014.
Group Life and AD&amp;D operating income was $52.5 million for the second quarter a decline of 13.4% from the year ago quarter premium income continues to grow at very healthy levels increasing 7.3% for the second quarter.
Earnings were negatively impacted by the increase in the benefit ratio to 73.1% for the quarter up from 70.1% a year ago primarily driven by an increase in the average paid claim size for the group life line.
Again this appears to be normal volatility and did not change our outlook going forward.
Trends in the supplemental and voluntary lines were favorable with operating income at $89.1 million for the second quarter and increase of 8% compared to the $82.5 million a year ago.
Premium income growth trends also remain favorable for this segment increasing 5.8% in the quarter compared to last year.
With perspective the individual disability line had a favorable quarter has overall risk results remain stable the voluntary benefit ratios declined to 43.1% in the second quarter compared to 48.2% a year ago as mortality experience was favorable in the life product line and higher policy terminations in the critical illness product line generated release of related active life reserves.
Moving to Unum U.K operating income was £25 million for the second quarter and increase is 5.9% over the year ago quarter of $23.6 million.
The benefit ratio improved 70.7% for the second quarter compared to 74% in the year ago quarter as risk experience in the group life line business was favourable benefiting from lower new claim incidents and average claim size.
Unfortunately mortality negatively impacted results in the group disability line although the risk results remain within our long term expectations.
Margins remain in very good shape for Unum U.K for the quarter and first half of the year and the operating ROE was 19.1% for the quarter.
Colonial Life also continues to generate strong results.
With operating income of $77.6 million a 3.6% increase over the year ago quarter at $74.9 million risk experience was favorable over the year ago quarter primarily driven by favorable mortality experience in the life line as a benefit ratio decline to 50.4% from 52% in the year ago quarter.
Margins remain strong Colonial Life within operating ROE of 16.6% for the quarter.
Finally the growth loss operating income was $36.6 million in the second quarter flat with the very strong results from the year ago quarter.
This year’s results were strong related to our long term expectations for both the long term care line in the closed disability block with good underlying risk experience in both business lines.
In the long term care block the interest adjusted benefit ratio was 83.4% for the second quarter favorable related to long term expectation of 85% to 90% benefit ratio but long term care has less favorable claims raise in the second quarter of 2015 compared to the very favorable experience in the prior year second quarter.
In the closed disability block we have a strong improvement relative to results of the second quarter of 2014.
The interest adjusted benefit ratio improved 83.6% this quarter compared to 89.4% a year ago primarily driven by more favorable claim incelntives and mortality experience.
I’ll now move to the growth trends we experience across the company as Rick pointed are we saw a moderation in our rate of sales growth this quarter.
This still was to be expected particularly in Unum U.S where we continue to implement rate increases in the market to offset the effects of growth the low interest rate environment.
It’s important to note that our sales growth levels have moderated we continue to see a very strong absolute level of sales.
I would remind you that it’s the relationship between the size of our imposed renewals business in the volume of sales that drives growth in our premium income.
So starting with Unum U.S.
total sales increased by 1% in the second quarter compared to a year ago.
Well this moderated from recent quarterly sales trends we continued to see good trends in the group visibility lines where LTD sales increased by a 11% and STE sales increased by 39%.
We saw a decline in the group life Canadian D sales by 22% against a very strong second quarter 2014.
By comparison the second quarter of 2014 sales increased by 71% over the second quarter of 2013 a very active large case sales activity.
Overall to the claims of business core market sales continued to show positive momentum is advancing by about 4% for the second quarter.
Large case sales declined by 7% overall which is typical of the volatile pattern we experience in this market segment.
Growth in voluntary benefit sales have also been volatile the sales declining a little over 1% for the second quarter compared to the year-over-year increase at 20% plus for the previous two quarters.
In addition sales and individual visibility line increased a 11% for the second quarter.
Persistency for Unum U.S.
remained a very healthy levels for the group lines combined persistency was 89.3% for the first half of 2015.
With these sales trends and persistency levels along with underlying management of imposed renewals we generated premium income growth for Unum U.S.
this quarter at 6.8%.
A Colonial Life in this sales continue to grow at a strong pace in the second quarter increasing 6% relative to last year.
the composition is this growth was encouraging is the core commercial market produced an increase of over 4% in the public sector increased 15% offsetting a slight decline in our large case sector business.
New account sales declined slightly this quarter so the growth over Colonial Life was overall primarily driven by sales through existing accounts.
In addition new rep contracts increased by about 7% as we focus on building the pipeline of producers.
Persistency for Colonial Life as high year-over-year at 79.2% helping to generate overall premium growth of 6% in the second quarter a highest rate of growth in several years.
Finally sales in Unum UK increased by 6% again in the second quarter in local currency.
Persistency remained stable in the group visibility line at 87.5% and continues on an improving trend in the group life line up to 79.9% for the first half of 2015.
So overall we’ve made very pleased with the growth trends we’ve seen at core business segments.
Quickly looking at investment results interest rates in investments spreads were higher in the second quarter compared to the first quarter and as a result and new money yields were slightly higher as well.
However our medium new money yields remain well below our existing portfolio yields so they are down with pressure on our portfolio yields and net investment income continues to impact our profitability.
We are actively raising prices in the market as a primarily means of managing this impact.
Moving to capital management the weighted average risk based capital ratio for our traditional U.S.
life insurance company continues to be stable from quarter to quarter remains approximately 400%.
Holding company cash and market hold securities was $481 million at quarter end which reflects our $103 million of share repurchases in the quarter.
Statutory operating earnings were $116 million for the second quarter and for the past four quarters statutory operating income totaled $633 million a healthy level of earnings which has also remain stable over time.
Wrapping up I want to affirm our 2015 outlook for growth in operating earnings per share in a range of 2% to 5% after 351 in operating earnings for 2014 has adjusted by the accounting update.
Given our first half results we expect it to be towards the lower end of that range but we will need to continue to see how business trends and interest rates play out for the reminder of the year.
So overall it was another solid second quarter for the company and now turn it back to Rick.
Thanks Jack.
And I’ll reiterate.
We are pleased with the second quarter results.
Our premium growth remained strong and our margins are healthy.
These solid results continue drive good capital generation and strong financial flexibility for the company.
This allows us to continue to invest in the growth for our business while we return capital to our shareholders.
So we’re happy with the results and now we’ll move to your question.
So I’ll ask the operator to being the Q&amp;A session.
Thanks you sir.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Thanks and good morning.
I want to start with the right actions that you are taking in the US are you now sort of pricing your business to reflect the current interest rate environment to all that’s going to baked in the cake at this point or is there another round of right action that you need to take on a go forward basis.
Mike you want to take.
Yes sure.
Good morning Suneet.
So I think already two fronts so first is new business pricing and where we would say absolutely new business pricing reflects our best view on interest rates underlying risk aging of the population et cetera.
The renewal is as you know it takes a little bit of time to work through that.
So to just give you a sense in the larger end of the market we see about a third all of our large employers come through each year and then in the core market exposure to 20% to 22% that we put through in renewal program each batch that comes through reflects the current view of interest rates.
So we’re making good progress but even as we saw rates fall a bit last year that would get reflected in the renewal program this year and in the next two years to come.
Okay.
Got it and then I guess for Jack on your comments about I think what you’re getting here was the nominal level of sales relative to the in-force I mean I guess is the takeaway from that that even if sales growth rate of sales starts to moderate because just of the large numbers that we should still expect premium growth because essentially you’re out selling your lapses is that kind of where you are going with that? Yes that is pretty much and so if we get to that point Got it.
And my last question on top line is is it still fair to say that you’re not really getting much of a benefit from either employment growth or wage inflation? it is positive it is in the 1% to 1.5% range and so we haven’t seen we haven’t seen the lives in wage growth that perhaps the general economy is seeing as yet.
In a normal period that 1% to 1.5% is typically what again could you remind us? I mean 2% to 4% depending.
I think one thing to add that is we are seeing the Life’s grow we really haven’t seen the wage inflation and so that is something that I think is true pretty much across the economy it’s very true in our books.
So we’re getting better employment but not seeing what we would expect from overall wage inflation so that is something we look forward to.
All right thanks.
And we will take our next question from John Nadel from Piper Jaffray.
Hey good morning everybody.
Maybe two quick questions for you there is some who are reading the DOL proposal to potentially have an impact on group insurance sales do you read it that way if so do you guys have a view on this obviously there is a lot of focus amongst the annuity writers and others selling business into qualified plans but I’m curious whether Unum has a similar view that this could potentially stream into the group insurance business? what is going with the fiduciary role and from the Department of Labor one it is early day so I think like anything that we look at in Washington I think it is very clear though from the discussion the questions and the guidance coming out of Department of Labour but this is very much about investment advice that goes on out there which doesn’t include us.
So it is one of those things that we stay on top of.
We don’t think it is going to and we don’t think it should apply to anything we do in the business but it is one of those as you deal with the ways of Washington we stand on top of it.
I totally agree with your view.
The second question I guess is there has been M&amp;A activity there is at least one group insurance business [indiscernible] is very publicly out there potentially other transactions that we don’t necessarily hear about the bankers might be bringing to you should we read into the fact that your buybacks continue that that M&amp;A is something you’re not really looking hard out at this point or are they mutually exclusive? John I appreciate the question I think we’ve been very clear on M&amp;A is a core part of our strategy when you think about that and so you wouldn’t have seen us do any deals but there wasn’t a lot going on in the market that is how we would have voice that.
So as you mentioned the market is seeing greater momentum we are definitely going to part in the view of what we have out there we will be close to whatever actions going on out there I think we are well known in the market at least that were interesting in growing our business through M&amp;A that’s the core part of our strategy.
So that M&amp;A can look like adding capabilities it could look like expansion of our all portfolio but to be very clear M&amp;A is a key part.
Your second piece of the question is around the capital to do so and I think that as we look at that we have been able to return capital to shareholders to share repurchase and through dividends but at the same time we have kept our balance sheet in the space.
So we can react to environment to an M&amp;A become as better and that’s been consistent.
So we think we have the prior part to participate in these markets and we will be very active on the firm and they are neutrally exclusive and we think Okay as a quick follow up along those lines I mean obviously you are carrying a risk based capital ratio that at least for your business mix is significantly above I think some tiers and significantly above your historical levels shall we think about that Rick is you know exact part of the capacity if they were to be used for M&amp;A as suppose to you know retiring equity.
The risk based capital ratio could be a source if you will funds.
I think we have been on over time that we have running of 400% we have been top of our ranges that we have communicated externally so there is room there we carry holding company cash as Jack mentioned that just under $500 million there is room there and then when we look to our leverage ratio we are very clean that leveraged structure that provides this capacity as well.
So we think we have a lot of capacity and I take you back to the capital generation model.
Every quarter we keep generating capital as well that can buyback stock or go towards certain type of transactions.
Yeah no question statutory earnings have been traffic.
The last one I have real quick is just that question I guess for Mike.
There is been some other companies talking about some model shifts in competitive environment in U.S.
group insurance that utmost notably this morning was more of the commentary from that around the [indiscernible] business which I know is not necessarily something here focused on by can you give us an update on your views on the competitive dynamics.
Yes sure John thanks for the question.
I’d would say is in comparison we certainly saw more favorable market conditions in 2014 and we had seen in a little while we had few carriers that needed to address profitability issues on that created some opportunity we saw the market shake off some of the distraction from ACA that where we adopted in the end of 2012 and then 2013.
I’d say as I look at 2015 we probably see a little bit more of an aggressive stands around pricing in the market.
Then we have saw 14 but still reasonably go to and I would say pretty typical conditions.
Okay thanks very much.
That’s all I have.
Thanks John.
And will take our next question from Jimmy Bhullar from J.P.
Morgan.
Hi good morning.
I had a few questions on first on if you could go into a little bit more detail on the two businesses where you say week margins a group disability and then Group Life just talking about what you saw in terms of incidence and severity trends and how do you expect the loss ratios do or margins still emerging those businesses in the second half of the year.
And then also on long-term carrier you had pretty good results in this quarter but given in the level of rates that were at right now if we stay at this level through the end of the year would you expect to add to your New York’s stat reserves again this year or could you been doing that in the past for the last few years? Okay.
I got Peter.
Yes good morning Jimmy.
First from the group disability and Group Life it really we take a look at there it really look like just normal volatility on the group disabilities side the new claim incidence rates was up slightly average size was up and so was a combination of those two things that drove the results would again pointing to the first half of the year way to very very good first quarter and a less good on second quarter but year-to-date we are pretty much were we could expected the and we would you know in our outlook is not changed going forward.
A Group Life it was absolutely an average claim size so you know just higher paid people happened to be the peoples at that submitted claims or the claim size was up 6% for the quarter and again that’s something that we wouldn’t view as being the trend and one of you is changing our outlook going forward.
From the long term care side where rates are and in the guidance that we’ve given in the past we’ve talked about New York being kind of a steady thing and so we would expect to have contributions to New York at a similar that we’ve had in the past.
And actually rates are a little better than they were at year end and so that there has been little modest improvement in that but again we’d expected the similar levels and it’s clearly something that has been baked into our capital plans.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Jimmy And we’ll take our next question from Steven Schwartz from Raymond James and Associates.
Yes.
Hey everybody.
Now I’m not going to take up much time most were asked and answered.
So thank you.
Thanks Steven.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
So couple of things.
Just to clarify on the deal situation because I don’t believe Unam submitted a comment letter on it.
But I presume then you just sort of participating with the ACI and using the welfare benefit plan and be carved out is number one.
Number two with respect to group life in terms of if you look over the last six to seven years and I appreciate using I would just a severity issue how many standard deviations were we sort of off your average.
And then lastly on the capital management because gettingthis ROE up seems to me an ongoing challenge.
Mind your standing is rolling over the closed lock securitization doesn’t make a lot of economic sense.
Can you just sort of walk us through why that is as things getting paid down fairly rapidly.
Thanks.
Good.
Thanks Colin.
Let me just follow-up on your first question.
We are actually participating when I talked about our activities in Washington.
One there is direct conversation that we have.
Second is through our trade associations ACI would be one of those.
So we did not submit our own comment letter but we are very much part in that process.
Let me turn over Jack talk a little bit about the group life.
At the group life standard deviation we did you an analysis of that.
It was close to within one standard deviation.
So we were clearly within our 75% confidence into on the group life.
It was high but not out of the realm.
On the securitization of the closed lock and we will look for opportunities going forward.
Can we get still little deeper into the close block securitization because if I recall and it was done in time its come right there and goes back to it as well.
You freed up I think it was about $800 million of capital.
And my understanding now is if you rolled it the number might be a 100 or something.
Life has changed is it the way you can use reinsurance and how the [indiscernible] regulators you are looking at it what’s the difference today versus when you did it.
If you could be more specific that would be helpful.
I think Collin its Rick.
just couple of things one is the size of the relative block so I think the cash flow is coming that block that reduce significantly as that block has run down particularly as you look back seven years.
So the cash that comes off that we generally is part of the securitizations what you are really securitizing is roughly half of what it was back then.
So that’s a biggest thing.
So there is no change in the rules no change in the views around that.
The second piece is the opportunity around is a much lower interest rate environment so you think you have much better debt ability to much lower financing cost.
It was done on a floating rate basis and so that was matched up early with floating rate assets.
So you don’t have that juice if you will as well.
So there is benefit and I think there would be some benefits to relooking at that but it’s more what is the magnitude of the those sides that we have out there.
Okay.
Well then if that’s not the option for you practically speaking are you explain selling off if you can part of the long-term care block since that to me seems to be the only way the ROE is really going to start to move up.
I mean we would certainly entertain selling the long-term care block or reinsuring it we’re listening to the market there are not a lot of buyers currently for particularly for big long-term care blocks.
There have been a couple of very small transactions they tended to be much older more mature blocks.
So we are actively there particularly if interest rates continue to rise it makes that a more possible option in the market but there from what we’ve seen there they are just not the buyers yet on it.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Colin.
And we will go now to Humphrey Lee from Dowling &amp; Partners.
Thanks good morning just a quick follow-up on your buybacks.
So year-to-date you are running at little bit north of $200 million and kind of towards the lower end of your $400 million to $600 million targets how should we think about the pace of the buybacks for the remaining of the year and what would make you kind of maintaining a similar pace of the first two quarters or what will kind of push you more towards the upper end of the guidance? Thanks Humphrey Jack do you want to take that? Yes we are very comfortable with our pace of buybacks currently it is towards the lower end of the range I think given our current stock price given the current interest rate environment and given the activity that is going on within the insurance space we think our current level of share repurchases strikes a good balance between financial flexibility of a company and good management of our capital levels.
Okay got it.
And then just a follow-up on the long-term care cost you mentioned you have been actively looking and but there assume not too many buyers kind of in your estimate still talking about the price differences to ways apart and how is that trend kind of over the years do you see that at least getting closer? I think from my perspective it is certainly interest rate rise the price difference gets closer in addition we have had two reductions in our discount rates on long-term care so the spread between current rates and our discount rate gets closer that makes that option more viable.
I frankly think that it has less to do with interest rates right now and more to do with comfort with the liability side and I think it is going to take some time in maturing of those blocks for people to get comfortable enough with it that they will consider a purchase.
Okay got it.
And then just on the interest rate part for long-term care do you see rates improved again what matter would you consider that we should be putting in some interest rate hedges to shield some of the interest rates to your long-term care block? I think interest rates need to rise rise more I think we are probably close at the end of 2014 we remember that tenure was just north of 3% so it is within the realm and again as we lowered the discount rates the hurdle rate for putting hedges on gets lower as well.
Okay got it.
Thanks.
We will take our next question from Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Just a question on the relationship and if there is anyone on the 2014 very strong sales growth you had in U.S.
Group and whether or not that is contributing at all to the elevated benefit ratios this quarter do you see that as a pricing issue at all or do you still have even if will remain around this level is that still a good enough of turn you would necessarily need to see rate actions? We actually look at claims by year of issue and there was no evidence that any of the problems that we saw in the group lines where the result of recent sales was pretty random with that stuff showed up by year of issue.
[indiscernible].
Yeah no Jack said looking We would certainly planned to see that continue but And can you give some perspective on magnitude of a rate further renewals as they come through? Yeah so its mid to high single digits its pretty difficult and then for any particular pocket or client you’re going to see variance around that but on average as we are.
Is that change from were to been to say last year the year before to meet the high single digits? Similarly it’s edged update will be [indiscernible] as actually we would be done at extend of the programs and so we are touching more clients than we had a year or two ago but the average size increase pretty much in a range.
Okay and then I would also just to add a question on supplementary in voluntary business.
Margins here have been quite good and my first question is that you think that’s a reasonable run rate from a margins stand point whether you are look at the loss ration or just the pre-tax earnings margin that you have been experiencing there and I guess the second question is just trying to rap my head around you know looking at how good these loss ratios are individual disability 30% interest adjust loss ratio and granted it’s a much different business and you are close block which is running in the 80s Yes it’s Mike To but with the [indiscernible] trend around here question which I say wouldn’t expect any dramatic movement I would say in general over time we would see loss ratios about at that level just slightly increasing over time and that would be offset by efficiencies gained and so would see operating expense is come down a bit in those lines and as a net impact is to your question is those are good healthy margins and we would seek to maintain those bottom [ph] mix wills shift over time.
And are there just looking it’s a 43% voluntary benefits loss ratio I mean are there a minimum loss ratio considerations at all or is that non applicable to these lines of business.
Yes I think we are generally we are good shape there I would say in the quarter particularly elevated lapses in voluntary benefits until there is a release of active like reserves that pushed up more favorable benefit ration there that’s our play in the quarter in particular but now I think in general we are in pretty good shape in that voluntary benefits portfolio there is product release that are going in a pretty regular stream and there is going through all 50 state filings and looking at experience in [indiscernible] there.
Okay thanks.
Thanks.
And now we will go to Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Good mornings everybody.
I wanted to go back the elevated disability claims with this quarter and just wanted to got a sense are there any pockets of the market where you are seeking the claim size or incidence rate picking up.
It really as we look at by industry by size there wasn’t really a pattern to it.
So it appeared to us to be pretty much pure volatility.
And the underlying piece too is the 50 basis points increase in the discount rate is going to drive your average size up itself now there is a little bit elevated about that.
But that had a role to play in it as well.
Got it.
And then can you also maybe explain why the asset supporting group disability declined.
I would have thought that’d be up just given the sales growth and high persistency.
Yes.
I mean that decline because the assets are more related to the reserves part in the business than it is the premium and so claim run offs with good recoveries as a reserves buying the business have been declining slightly and so the assets have been declining as well.
Okay.
And finally persistence is clearly still strong but still in the US was starting to see some declines in 2015 in short term visibility group life voluntary benefits.
Do you see this is part of a broader trend or just normal volatility? Yes.
I think its normal volatility.
It’s something that we’re going to watch very closely just linking it to back into the reprising for interest rates as we work through the block it’s the balance between placing the rate increases and retaining clients through that process at 89.3% feel very good about where it sits at the moment.
But we will continue to watch it really closely.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Great.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Ken Billingsley from Compass Point.
Good morning.
I wanted to just follow-up in your comments about the benefits or not giving the benefit from employment growth and a way to inflation as employers and insurance brokers are not as focused on ACI are you seeing a shift and maybe their interest in pushing the benefit products or has that not actually translated yet.
Sure.
It’s Mike.
Thanks for the question.
Actually demand for our products because we’re think them as financial protection benefits is growing and so generally what we see is ACI is just been part of a long term trend towards the consumer or the employee driving benefits decisions.
And what we see is when you put a employee in front of a healthcare decision they are going to buy down on the healthcare and usually that means higher deductable higher co-pay type insurances lower monthly premium they use some of that savings to buy products that help fill some of those gaps.
So in general we see consumers with more interest in living benefits in particular supplemental health products short term disability and like.
Employers I think just as the economy is improving there is some of that slack is coming out of the labor market and so the need to attract retained talent is hightened until doing so with employee choice option as an economic way to do it so demand in the employer front is good.
And then I think to your point in the question what we seemed in the distribution channel with brokers is a pretty strong interest to diversify away their revenue from such dependent on healthcare commission.
And I would say even as consolidation continues in that health market that’s going to put further downward pressure on healthcare commissions and creates a demand for other source as a revenue and that’s where Colonial Life Unum products fit very nicely.
With the penetration in some of these employers for ACI because they had to are you seeing that this is transition in opening more doors for your products or maybe they weren’t considered before or it has demand not necessarily increased.
Yes.
I think it’s not an overnight sensation but I’d say it’s been a building sense of demand.
One interesting kind of coral area is ACI has brought a pretty step up compliance and regulatory requirements particular around keeping track of time.
And so what more and more employers are looking to technology benefit administration cloud based HR IR solutions and the like.
Those are platform that we’ve worked hard to build a relationship overtime with until that’s opening up some interesting channels for us.
So technology driven distribution of benefits and so again I don ‘t think that’s an overnight explosive growth but at the slow burn which I think is getting parts of the market we had been too before.
Okay thank you for taking my questions.
And we will take our next question from Erik Bass from Citi.
Good morning thank you.
Given where interest rates are currently do you anticipate there would be any need to make further adjustments to the new claims discount rates in the second half of this year? We’ll look at it we will come to the end of the year we do our annual claim review reserve review in the fourth quarter we have healthy margins currently in our interest margin it is north of 95 basis points so there is some room in there and we are optimistic that if perhaps the Fed begins to move in the second half of the year there is a little lift in the interest rates would help that a lot.
So it is something that we are going to wait and see but we are comfortable with where we are we are comfortable with our margin being at the higher end of we would like to see it and so I think we have some flexibility coming into the end of the year.
Got it thank you.
And I guess just one question from Mike going back to the competitive dynamic are you seeing or do you anticipate any impact from the recent or expected M&amp;A in the group market? Time will tell I guess would be the quick answer is generally though when you see M&amp;A it is going to be a pretty considerable distraction both acquiree and acquirer so that usually create some uncertainty and opportunity for players to stay focused through the period but again time will tell.
Got it thank you.
Thanks Erik.
We will take a question now from Mark Hughes from SunTrust.
Thank you good morning.
The commentary benefits sales down a little bit was that consistent with the broader competitive pressure or was it just less take rates from individuals what was the dynamic going on there? Yes great thanks.
I think it is a little bit of just quarter to quarter movement in sales trends we had a really strong first quarter I think year-to-date we are up 20% in voluntary benefit sales.
I wouldn’t read too much into it second quarter tends to be a light quarter in terms of seasonality for that particular line generally we feel good and you look at the pipeline it looks good I think demand for products is high and we continue to invest in capabilities around product of distribution and probably it has done a little bit of more investing than we have in years past around consumer centric capabilities and driving up take rates participation rates for new and for existing plans and we are starting to see some pretty encouraging things there.
So little bit of also in the second quarter but I think the long-term trends are healthy.
Thank you.
And we will now take a question from Ryan Krueger from KBW.
Hey thanks good morning.
Just want to follow up on the M&amp;A commentary I think you mentioned that you might have some debt capacity your debt-to-cap ratio is around 25% can you help us think about to how high you could bring that up if you done the deal that was attractive that required additional capital to finance? Sure.
When you think about the 25% we have today it is kind of pure senior debt relative to our overall capital position so there are different forms if you could take on and I think that the key about us being able to take it up from there is something we can do but it is also both at the longer term plan.
So we say we feel good about 25% longer term if we take it up for a period of time for M&amp;A and it comes back down in a pretty rapid basis we think that is just fine.
So I want to approach top end range out there it is much more about the trajectory how we want to run it.
Understood and then it has been a while since you have done an M&amp;A can you just can you talk about your philosophy when it comes to evaluating M&amp;A and accretion versus buyback and [indiscernible] that? Well I think the first thing Ryan is when we look at M&amp;A it is going to be above what is the strategic fit that we have with the overall company so always at the start there and then very quickly go to the economics of the deal that you see out there.
So I think about IRR think about those things then you come relative to the use of capital so we do compared to share repurchase which has been very good for us overtime so we’re going to we doing that as well and then we look at accretion dilution I think those are important metrics for shareholders those will be part of the mix as well but I take you back to number one is where is the fitness strategy and number two to the economics of the deal look like.
And is else fair to assume that if you ware evaluating the M&amp;A deal relative to buyback but you could probably deployed more capital into an M&amp;A transaction and bring down your balance sheet metrics a little bit lower in an M&amp;A deal then with buyback from a rate giving our rating agencies and look at this.
so science about metrics on day one it’s a on exact science relative to share repurchase things like that but I think those are key [indiscernible] with you to help us think about different M&amp;A transaction.
Okay thanks.
Appreciated.
Great.
I will now take a follow up question from Humphrey Lee from Dowling &amp; Partners.
Thanks.
Just a quick follow up on M&amp;A so you talked about you kind of look at different things and I just talk curious is there any particular business type that you will be more insisted in over analysis so may be prevent more voluntary over for the share group or anything in terms of the business that will be more interested Well Humphrey as I said we’re looking at how does it fitting with the overall strategy so all of the things that you mentioned our all part of our strategy we are figuring out how we can reach more customers through the employer so when you take that as a broad scope that’s we’re going to look at.
So I want to get more specific in that but we’re going to stay true to working through the employer but there are lot of needs that can provided through the employer which will explore all of those.
Okay saying unfavorable claims experience related to critical illness especially in the cancer coverage do you see anything kind of unusual or anything adverse or kind of resulting trend respect to kind of coverage for cancer treatments.
Yeah right the cancer products continues to form very well we certainly stay [indiscernible] of developments in the medical field around cancer treatment and the impact that might have on our benefits cost but at this moment we’re pleased with the direction of the product and increasingly it’s a differentiator for us because there are on as many company at their offering as specific product line.
Okay so but overall did the claims experience a largely in line with your expectation unless you don’t see that kind of elevated cost related to treatments.
Correct no Okay.
Alright thank you.
End of Q&amp;A Thanks Humphrey.
Operator we’re coming up on time so I think we’ll thank everybody for taken time to join us this morning and operator that now completes our second quarter 2015 earnings call.
Thank you sir.
And ladies and gentlemen once again this does conclude today’s conference and we do thank you for your participation today.
Welcome to the Unum Group Third Quarter Earnings Results Conference.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the third quarter 2015 earnings conference call for Unum.
Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the SEC and are also located in the sections titled cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements and risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2014 and our subsequently filed quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Our SEC filings can be found in the investors section on our website.
I remind you that statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
As we discuss the financial results this quarter I'll remind you that our prior-period results have been adjusted for our retrospective adoption of the accounting standards update for tax credit partnership investments and qualified affordable housing projects.
Adjusted prior-period results are available on our website in a supplemental exhibit.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found in our statistical supplement on our website in the investor section.
Participating in this morning's conference call are Unum's President and CEO Rick McKenney; and our CFO Jack McGarry; as well as the CEOs of our core business segments Mike Simonds for Unum U.S.; Peter O'Donnell for Unum UK; and Tim Arnold for Colonial Life.
And now I'll turn the call over to Rick.
Great.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
I'm very happy to take you through what was a very good third quarter.
Our operating earnings per share of $0.91 increased just under 6% from the year-ago quarter.
These results were very well balanced showing continued momentum building in premium income for our core business segments as well as stable benefits experience.
This drove solid margins across our businesses.
In addition it was an active quarter from a capital management perspective.
We deployed our capital for growth both organic and through acquisitions.
This did not slow us from consistently returning capital to our shareholders through steady repurchase of our shares as well.
Fueled by strong statutory earnings this quarter our capital position remains very healthy providing excellent financial flexibility as we wrap up 2015 and look to 2016.
I will cover a few key highlights for the quarter and then I'll turn it to Jack to provide an analysis our results in greater detail.
I'll start with sales where we had a very good third quarter as well.
Unum U.S.
sales increased by just under 10% with favorable results in the large case market particularly in the group disability lines.
Voluntary benefits sales were flat for the quarter but we did see improved trends in our core market segment.
In workplace market individual disability sales were very strong this quarter up 47% as we had very good success in large case market.
At Colonial Life sales growth continues to be quite encouraging increasing 11% with very good performance in both commercial and public sector markets.
And finally Unum UK sales in local currency were flat in the third quarter but we were pleased to see stronger activity in the core market segment as well as in new-to-market cases.
Second these sales trends continued to provide good momentum for our premium income.
Our core business segments on a combined basis generated premium income growth of over 5% compared to last year with Unum U.S.
premium growth of 7% Colonial Life of over 4% and Unum UK up 2% in local currency.
Next our benefit ratio experience was stable this quarter.
This is a favorable improvement from the volatility we experienced in the second quarter particularly in the Unum U.S.
group disability and in group life lines of business.
Colonial Life and Unum UK also showed stable experience with benefit ratios well with our expectations.
And for the Closed Block benefits experience in the individual disability line was favorable and offset by higher levels of claim volatility that we experienced in the long-term care line.
Jack will detail these trends by business segment in his commentary.
With these results we continue to maintain a very strong level of statutory earnings and financial flexibility.
We were active with our capital management execution this quarter.
We continued to fund the organic growth we're seeing but additionally funded the acquisition of an attractive dental business in the UK.
The acquisition of National Dental Plan our first in over a decade was a relatively small deal at just over $50 million but importantly it demonstrated our discipline of focusing on both strategic fit and attractive valuation.
We also remain steady and consistent with our share repurchase activity.
Finally the ongoing low interest rate environment continues to present challenges.
Interest rates and investment spreads were somewhat higher in the third quarter however they remain well below historical levels and below our portfolio yields.
We're actively managing through this difficult environment by steadily taking pricing actions but in the near term it is dampening our profit growth.
With these highlights on our third quarter performance I will now ask Jack to cover our results in greater detail.
Jack? Thank you Rick and good morning everyone.
Rick gave you a high-level view of what we believe was a very good third quarter and now I'd like to review in more detail the operating and growth trends we saw in the quarter.
I'll start first with Unum U.S.
where third quarter operating earnings were $218.7 million an increase of 3.1% from the year-ago quarter of $212.1 million and a very favorable improvement over the second quarter operating earnings of $202.8 million.
Premium income growth was strong increasing 6.8% over the year-ago quarter.
The benefit ratio for the U.S.
segment improved 69.8% in the third quarter compared to 70.4% in the year-ago quarter and 71.2% in the second quarter.
Our benefits experience improved nicely from the higher level of volatility we experienced in the second quarter.
Within the Unum U.S.
segment operating income in our group disability business was $70.8 million an increase of 3.2% from the year-ago quarter of $68.6 million.
While premium income continues to build momentum increasing by 7.9% over the year-ago quarter we continue to see pressure on net investment income which declined by 2.5% compared to the year-ago quarter.
Benefit experience improved in the third quarter relative to both the year-ago quarter and the second quarter of this year.
The benefit ratio was 80.5% for the third quarter compared to 82.1% a year ago and 83.4% in the second quarter driven primarily by lower claims incidents rates and favorable recovery experience in our group long-term disability product line.
Group Life and AD&amp;D operating income was $60.2 million for the third quarter a decline of 2.6% from the year-ago quarter.
We were pleased however to see that our third quarter operating income improved strongly from the second quarter income of $52.5 million.
Premium income growth continues to build momentum increasing 5.8% over the year-ago quarter.
The benefit ratio was 71% for the third quarter compared to 70% in the year-ago quarter due to a higher average paid claim size.
Similar to the group disability line we saw very good improvement in the third quarter relative to the second quarter when the benefit ratio was elevated at 73.1%.
It was encouraging to see the improved performance in both of these business lines which experienced some volatility in the second quarter.
Trends in the supplemental and voluntary lines were also favorable with operating income of $87.7 million in the third quarter an increase of 7.3% compared to $81.7 million a year ago.
Premium income growth trends also remained positive for this segment increasing 6% in the quarter compared to last year.
From a risk perspective results in the individual disability line were generally consistent with the year-ago quarter and the benefit ratio was stable.
The benefit ratio for voluntary benefits improved to 45.8% in the third quarter compared to 47.1% a year ago as mortality experience was favorable in the product line -- life product line and incidents rates were lower in the accident product line.
Moving to Unum UK operating income was £21.1 million for the third quarter an increase of 5% over the year ago quarter of £20.1 million.
The benefit ratio improved to 67.8% for the third quarter compared to 70.7% in the year ago quarter driven primarily by the group long-term disability line of business as claims incidents and recovery rates were favorable.
Experience in the group life line was generally consistent with the year-ago quarter.
Colonial Life continues to generate strong consistent results with operating income of $76.3 million a 7.5% increase over the year-ago quarter of $71 million.
The benefit ratio improved to 51.2% for the third quarter compared to 52.7% for the year-ago quarter driven by favorable mortality experience in the life product line and the release of active life reserves related to policy terminations.
Margins remain very strong for Colonial Life with an operating ROE of 16.3% this quarter.
Finally the Closed Block operating income was $27.7 million in the third quarter compared to $25.7 million in the year-ago quarter.
The benefits experience for the individual disability line was favorable primarily due to favorable claims incidents trends.
The interest adjusted loss ratio declined to 80.8% in the third quarter compared to 82.3% in the year-ago quarter.
The long-term care line the interest adjusted loss ratio was higher at 89.9% for the third quarter compared to 88.5% for the year-ago quarter as new claims incidents was higher and claim recoveries were lower.
For the first three quarters of the year our long-term care risk results remained within our expectations with an interest adjusted loss ratio of 86.9% compared to our long-term expectations of the loss ratio in the 85% to 90% range.
I'll now move to the growth trends we experienced across the Company.
As Rick pointed out after some moderation in our sales strength in the second quarter we saw much better sales results in the third quarter.
Starting with Unum U.S.
total sales increased by 9.7% in the third quarter compared to a year ago.
Looking at the results by product line we had very strong quarter for LTD sales which increased by 22.5% over last year.
Sales growth for the group life and AD&amp;D product line was more moderate at 1.5% while sales in the STD pipeline declined by 2.6%.
By case size we saw very good results in the large case market with total group sales that's LTD STD and group life and AD&amp;D combined increased by 33.3% over the year-ago quarter while core market sales increased by 1.3%.
As you know we're opportunistic in terms of adding new clients in the large case employer market resulting in sales volatility quarter to quarter.
While up 33% in the third quarter large case sales were down in each of the first two quarters and are essentially flat year to date.
Also within Unum U.S.
we had very strong sales results in the individual disability line for the third quarter increasing 47.2% to $21.2 million our largest sales quarter in many years driven by several successful large case enrollments.
Finally in the voluntary benefits product line total sales were relatively flat at $46.2 million for the third quarter with 7% growth in the core market offsetting a 5% decline in the large case market.
Persistency for Unum U.S.
continues at very healthy levels.
For the group line combined persistency was 90% for the first nine months of 2015 stable with the 89.9% for the same period of 2014.
With these sales trends and persistency levels along with the underlying management of our in-force renewals we generated premium income growth for Unum U.S.
this quarter and year to date of 6.8%.
Sales in Unum UK were flat in the third quarter in local currency with favorable core market sales offset by lower large case sales.
Persistency remained stable in the group disability line at 88.5% and continues on an improving trend in the group life line up to 80.6% year to date compared to 73.3% for the first nine months of 2014.
Premium income growth in local currency for the UK this quarter was 2%.
Finally Colonial Life sales continued to grow at a strong pace increasing 11.1% for the third quarter and 8.1% on a year-to-date basis.
The growth this quarter was well balanced between the commercial market sector and the public sector and by product line where sales of life products and cancer and critical illness products were particularly strong.
In addition new customer account sales increased by 9% in the quarter and sales to existing customer accounts increased by 12%.
Persistency for Colonial Life was slightly lower for the first nine months at 78.6% compared to 79.1% for the year-ago period but premium growth continues to show good momentum increasing 4.3% in the third quarter compared to the year-ago quarter.
Overall we remain very pleased with the growth trends we see in our core business segments based on strong sales trends year to date as well as solid and stable persistency.
Quickly looking at investment results new money yields were higher in the third quarter compared to the first half of 2015.
However today's new money rates yields remain well below our existing portfolio yields so the downward pressure on our portfolio yields and net investment income continues to impact our profitability.
We remain active in raising prices in our markets to manage this impact.
Moving to capital management it was very active quarter for us.
As Rick mentioned we announced in close the acquisition of National Dental Plan a leading dental property in the UK which gives us a strong position in an attractive new and complementary market.
The purchase price of National Dental was $54 million.
In addition we repurchased 115 million of our stock this quarter bringing the total repurchases to 326 million thus far in 2015 which is approximately 3.7% of our year-end 2014 outstanding shares.
We closed the third quarter with the weighted average risk-based capital ratio for our traditional U.S.
life insurance companies at approximately 400% consistent with the levels throughout the year.
Holding company cash and marketable securities was $484 million at the quarter end.
Statutory operating earnings were $190 million for the third quarter and for the past full quarters statutory operating income totaled approximately $655 million a strong level of earnings which remains consistent over time.
Wrapping up we continue to confirm our 2015 outlook for growth and operating earnings per share in a range of 2% to 5% off the $3.51 in operating earnings per share for 2014 as adjusted for the accounting update.
Given our results thus far in the year we continue to expect to be towards the lower end of that range.
So overall again it was a very good third quarter for the Company.
Now I'll turn things back to Rick.
Great.
Thanks Jack.
I think you'd agree the quarter represented a good balance between top-line results and stable benefits experienced across our core business segments.
As a result our consistent capital generation allows us the flexibility to invest in the growth of our business while also returning capital to our shareholders.
It's the type of quarter we like to see.
We'll now move to your questions so I'll ask the operator to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions].
We will go first to Erik Bass with Citi.
A question for Mike.
I was hoping you could provide some color on the pipeline ahead of January renewals.
And also any update on price competition relative to what you saw at this time last year in the first half of 2015.
Thanks Eric and good morning.
I'd say I'll take your second question first in terms of the marketplace.
What I would say in general is we're seeing a pretty rational pricing environment out there not as favorable as perhaps 2014 when we saw a number of carriers need to reposition their blocks.
I'd say the current situation is there's still some carriers with work to do.
We see a few carriers that are getting a little bit more aggressive in terms of underwriting that sort of balances out into what I would describe as a pretty typical pricing environment across the group insurance line.
So that's what we're seeing externally.
And then that sort of feeds into what our pipeline looks like.
I think your question was with respect to the renewal block.
We continue to build modest single digit mid single-digit increases into our renewal plans to account for the interest rates that Jack referenced.
And our persistency of clients through that program has been right in line to slightly ahead of our expectations.
Plenty more work to do as we push all the way through the end of the year and through the one-one cycle that you referenced but at this point I feel good about it.
One question you mentioned low interest rates.
I think it's come up a couple times on the call and I realize this may be a topic for your outlook meeting in December.
Any comments you can provide about the potential for a reduction in the new claims discount rate just given the level of interest rates? Just in terms of the overall industry I think it is a topic we can continue to discuss across the board and I think as Mike mentioned we're taking price and we're doing -- taking the actions necessary to deal with it.
It will be a topic I'm sure with all investors or all companies as we get to that but more specifically to your question let me turn it over to Jack about our specific discount rate.
Erik we're in the throes of our reserve adequacy studies right now.
We tend to do those late in the third quarter with a ramp up in the fourth quarter.
And so clearly we're going to wait until that work is complete before we make a decision but with that said I would say spreads have widened.
It's a little bit more favorable investment environment than we have seen for the past couple of quarters.
On top of that our interest rate margin in our long term disability line is at the top end of its range.
We do believe we're going into the final quarter with some flexibility.
Can you just remind us what the sensitivity approximately would be if you were to make a change? The last 50 basis point change that we made last year I think was about $7.5 million a quarter.
We will take our next question from Ryan Krueger with KBW.
First I was hoping you if could give an update on some of the underlying sales trends at Colonial where growth has been pretty strong over the last couple of years really.
We've been pleased to see strong growth from almost all customer segments and from almost all product lines.
We're obviously seeing heavier growth in our products than our individual but we have healthy growth in both.
From a geographic perspective we're seeing strong growth in all four of our major regional markets.
Feeling very good about where we are from a growth perspective in the results.
Our sales team is producing Could you give some color around the energy portfolio at this point where fair value is relative to costs as well as how concerned you are at this point about rate migration? The energy portfolio it remains in the gain position.
It's about 12% of our invested assets.
85% of the portfolio is at investment grade.
It still has a unrealized capital gain in the portfolio.
We've done some pretty rigorous testing of the portfolio at current oil prices and believe that we have time in the portfolio.
If current oil prices stay at the level they are at for another year or two we don't anticipate big problems in the portfolio.
It would get worse however if it goes on for an extended period of time.
We will take our next question from Suneet Kamath with UBS I guess for Jack on the statutory earnings.
I think it's up about 18% or so from where you were running on the first half of the year.
Two questions related to that.
One what drove the increase in 3Q versus first half? And then secondly given your running at a pretty nice clip so far this year how does that influence your guidance for the lower end of the $400 million to $600 million buyback plan for this year? Statutory earnings were very strong for the quarter.
That's a reflection of the favorable risk results that we had in the quarter.
Second quarter was worse from a statutory perspective in first quarter.
It's driven by the underlying risk results.
Certainly statutory earnings helped our capital position and our financial flexibility.
I don't think the bump that we saw in the second quarter will have a material impact on our stock repurchase plans.
Our capital plans remain pretty much intact with where they saw them.
We're up a little bit relative to the 400 pace that we had been on but a lot of that is just being opportunistic with the stock price dip we saw in the third quarter.
And then I guess for Mike.
I think in Jack's comments and please correct me if I got this wrong I think he said that Unum US core market sales were up only 1% suggesting that most of the growth in the quarter came from the opportunistic large case.
Could you give us if that's right can you give us some color in terms of what's going on in the core market? Is it increased competition? I would've thought that that 1% number if right had been running higher in prior quarters.
Thanks.
That is correct.
It was much more modest growth.
Two things I would highlight.
One a very strong prior-year comparison.
As I mentioned earlier the competitive environment was probably a little bit more favorable in 2014.
We had a very strong 3Q in the core in particular.
It was actually 4Q 2014 was quite a good sales quarter for us as well.
If you unpack the core results what you see is some of our toughest competitive market was in what we call the mid-market.
Those are employers between 500 and 2 000 lives.
That tends to be a space where large players will come down and more small case players will move up.
That was reflected in some of the close ratios we had.
As you know we're going to stay very disciplined from an underwriting point of view.
Down to the smaller end of core we saw a little bit better growth.
We also saw good growth with existing clients.
All in feeling pretty good about it.
We're going to watch it very closely.
As I mentioned before both in the renewal plan and on new business pricing particularly with disability we put in some mid-single-digit type price increases.
We were going to watch and see how the market responds.
It should be a universal issue around interest rate that people are dealing with.
So provided the market continues to move upward to reflect that pressure we would hope to see continued good growth in the core.
We will take our next question from Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank Wanted to talk about US group life and AD&amp;D business.
I think we saw a second consecutive quarter there with higher average paid claims size.
Could you maybe offer a little more color on what's driving that and are you taking any action at this point or do think that any action is necessary at this point? Again we think it's volatility with a pickup in average claim size.
Actually a lot of that pickup was in the AD&amp;D line.
We had a bunch of really large accident claims which is pretty unusual.
Clearly that is the most volatile and random of the lines that we write.
A lot of that increase in loss ratio was driven by AD&amp;D.
The group life line actually was very stable with where it was in the third quarter of 2014.
As a result of that and what drove that I don't think we're contemplating any pricing actions.
Okay.
You talked about M&amp;A a little bit and the Dental Plan acquisition.
Can you remind us what your thoughts and plans are or expectations are for contribution from Dental Plan going forward? And also maybe where you continue to see pockets for additional M&amp;A activity whether it's by geography or market segment? Sure let me take that for you Yaron.
This is Rick.
So when think about the overall so we'll start on first on the National Dental Plan which we talked about being relatively small $50 million roughly purchase price.
The contribution of that will be quite small.
We'll talk about that as we get to investor day.
When we think of just the relative to the purchase price we're going to have a reasonably good return on that so it's going to be day one profitable which I think is a good thing.
We've got take to take you through some of the details.
It's not going to be a big contributor day one however what I would say it's very good strategically.
When we think about building out our UK business it was an area of the portfolio that we did not have.
It's a growing market in the UK and so I think that across all fronts we feel very good about that transaction.
When you rewind that to the broader M&amp;A market and what we want to do you'll see some things out there trading in market today.
I should say over the course of the summer.
Some of those are more difficult for us because first and foremost we would like to fill in the US product lines we don't have a large presence in today.
Secondly we would like to consolidate blocks that we think we can run well and generate good profits.
And so you've seen some of those out there but I think one of the things that's challenging here in the US is pricing.
We're going to remain a disciplined acquirer.
We're always said that and we will continue on that front.
The other place that we would continue to go is looking for different jurisdictions.
The National Dental Plan although we have a good presence in UK would be one of those.
What else can we do in those type of markets? When we get outside of the US where are there other opportunities for us to do what we know very well? Those have been things we've been looking at for several years now.
We'll continue to look on that front and make sure that we're a very nimble acquirer.
The National Dental Plan deal that we did as we said we purchased and closed within a quarter and that's the kind of creativity we want to have as we go out there as of the same kind of nimbleness to make sure we can execute quickly on those type of transactions.
I bring all that together and it's got to be in the right strategic context of making our Company bigger being focused at the workplace and doing what we know very well.
National Dental Plan was a good example of that on all fronts.
Would you consider markets or jurisdictions outside of North America and the UK? Yes.
We will take our next question from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
The persistency in Colonial Life has ticked up quite a bit relative to the first half.
Could you give us a bit of insight on that? Yes first of all clearly the marketplace is becoming more competitive and we recognize that.
However after looking at our persistency results in the third quarter we believe it's normal volatility driving those results.
We don't believe that this is the new normal.
Also when you compare our persistency results to those in the industry who report on their voluntary persistency we continue to have industry leading results even at the level we reported in the third quarter.
So should we look at the first half as a better indicator of persistency as opposed to the third quarter? Yes we believe so.
Okay.
The other question I had is with regard another question on share buyback.
The amount of free cash flow generated at the overall operation continues to be quite strong.
I'm just wondering why given the good continued earnings power why the share buyback pace is at the low end of the initial guidance you provided for this year.
Certainly we've had good cash flow.
I would say one of the pieces is in the quarter we bought National Dental Plan.
That was a $54 million price tag.
If you add that to the $150 million of share repurchase or the $326 million year to date we are about in the middle of that range.
And so I would say statutory earnings are maybe modestly better than we anticipated but not dramatically better than we anticipated and so I think we continue to be pretty comfortable with where we are in the capital plans we have in place.
Okay.
I would just point out that with the stock at the current valuation either PE or price-to-book it still looks like a good opportunity to buy back more stock.
Yes Jay I think when we think about our overall share repurchase we do notice the stock price and where it is.
I think even if you look at what we did earlier in the year versus what we did as the share price or I should say the market not just our shares but as the market came down we did a little bit more.
We'll do that on the edges.
I don't think you'll see wholesale moves in and out of the market relative to where the price is but it is something that factors into our overall plan.
We will take our next question from Humphrey Lee with Dowling and Partners.
Just a follow up on the Colonial Life sales.
Obviously the cancer and critical illness products has been pretty strong.
Can you talk about in terms of pipeline that you are you seeing and [indiscernible] it with some of the other group insurance companies recently launched their own voluntary benefits platform.
Can you just talk about in general the overall voluntary benefits market competition? We believe the market is growing rapidly itself.
Even though there are new entrants coming in we still believe there's plenty of opportunity to drive strong growth in the market.
As you pointed out we had good growth in a few products that you mentioned but we really had strong growth across almost every product line.
And as I mentioned earlier across all of our geographies.
We still believe the marketplace is very attractive.
We think there's very strong opportunity for the market itself to continue to grow.
We have a tremendous brand.
We have a very effective field force.
We feel comfortable that our growth prospects remain in the range that we shared during investor day last year of 6% to 8% sales growth.
Okay.
Maybe a question for Tim and Mike.
With the ACA the government was talking about being high in 2016.
Do you see any impact to your enrollment for the current open enrollment periods in terms of the amount for your supplemental health type product? We clearly see an opportunity there on the Colonial Life side.
Part of our value proposition is to conduct what we call core enrollment so we actually in many cases enroll the medical portion of an employer's plan.
And as we do that we certainly gain insight into the places where an employer may be making changes in their medical deductibles that create opportunity for our products to fill a gap that the consumer would otherwise experience in their overall financial protection picture.
We see that as a pretty significant opportunity currently.
I would to that you would see within the voluntary portfolio the strongest growth on the Unum brand side in products like accident hospital indemnity critical illness which our supplemental health products that help fill those gaps that get created as employees are given more choice.
It's pretty clear that they tend to buy down the health coverage so they will elect for higher deductibles to lower the premiums that creates gaps that need to be filled in the short term.
It's an opportunity for us.
It sounds like at least you continued to have some tailwind in terms of the supplemental and voluntary benefits sales in both Unum US and Colonial Life at least in the near term.
I think that's a fair statement.
I would take a step back and say it's part of a longer-term trend.
And while the ACA certainly accelerated it to a degree it's been a number of years that we've seen this shift towards more employee-centric benefit package that shift more toward more defined contribution and across the Colonial and the Unum Companies we made that bet coming up on a decade ago to build out the products technologies and platforms to take advantage of that shift.
I think we're seeing some of that pay off.
We will take our next question from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James A couple here.
First Mike maybe you could talk to the environment with regards to the brokers; there's been a lot of M&amp;A action in that area.
Is that having an effect on your business at all and maybe for Colonial as well I guess? It's Mike.
I'll start it.
They have Steven.
We absolutely have seen the consolidation that you're speaking to particularly in the up market.
At this point we have not seen it as dampening and in most of these transactions we've got really good relationships with both parties and those are preserved through the combination.
I would say in general one of the things that we're watching is the number of smaller brokerage firms that tend to focus on the small case market.
We would see fewer of those brokers today than what we may have seen three or four years ago.
We are on the Unum brand side finding opportunities through alternative partners and we call digital channels where there are emerging technology players that are enabling us to distribute benefits down in the small end of the market.
It also presents a really good opportunity for the direct distribution that Colonial Life brings.
And with that I'll turn it over to Tim.
Thanks Mike.
First of all let me say we enjoy very strong support from the broker market.
We've seen very significant growth in our broker block of business over the last few years.
And actually about two-thirds of our sales come from brokers.
Next week Benefit Selling magazine which is widely read by brokers will announce their annual survey results and awards that are given by brokers and although I can't share with you the results yet because they haven't been announced I think Colonial Life will be very well placed.
Very strong partnerships with the broker commodity.
Having said that as Mike pointed out there are fewer brokers operating in the small end of the market and that is creating opportunity for us on the direct marketing side.
And we're seeing extremely strong growth in the less than 100 life segment as a result of that.
Okay.
Back to Mike on this just as a follow-up.
You mentioned alternatives.
Are you talking about companies like Zenefits? There are a number of companies that are popping up that provide a broader array of HR and HRAF type services and part of that can be benefits brokering.
Often times it's done directly.
Sometimes it's in partnership with firms as their small market strategy.
It's too early to see how big of an impact it can have but that's certainly something that we're staying very close to and have made some investments in And then a quick one for Jack.
Jack could you remind us with the target interest adjusted loss ratio is for Closed Block IDI? Closed Block IDI has tended to run in the 81% to 83% range.
It was a little more favorable this quarter.
Okay but that would be the long term target? Yes.
Okay.
And then one more.
Just as a point of information.
How does dental work in the UK? Is that something not covered by the government? There is an NHS support service for a dentist but again like a lot of things in the UK it's under a lot of cost pressure and to get a good service you need to get a private scheme and private dental.
That's a growing market the private dental market.
As Rick referred to we see the dental market is going to be very small at the moment.
National Dental Plan is a corporate player.
We've got 25% market share in the corporate market which is in employee benefits.
It's 75% employee paid so it's one of those products that is moving us more into that voluntary market which again strategically we like and think that's a good place to be.
We see both the increase of private provision and also increasingly employees wanting to get access to that and it's a great employer benefit to give to your employees.
We really like the growth prospects for that market.
We will take our next question from Jimmy Bhullar JPMorgan I had a couple of questions.
The first one is if we look at the past few years you've added a stat reserves for the New York entity for long term care.
Given where rates are right now assuming no dramatic changes through the end of the year would you assume another addition? And in terms of quantity or magnitude would it be similar to what you've done in the past few years or higher or lower? Can you repeat the question? Just the likelihood of additions to New York stat reserves long term care stat reserves for New York.
I would look to history in that.
$150 million over the last couple of years.
It's very sensitive to where interest rates are at the end of the year.
Sure.
If we think about what you've done in terms of buybacks the last couple of years you bought back more in the first three quarters and less in the last quarter.
Last year you didn't buy anything in the fourth quarter and part of the reason was the New York stat reserve addition.
If you do have to add to reserves would you continue to buy back stock or is that something that could affect your ability to hit the low end of your share buyback guidance? Actually the fourth quarter of last year as you recall we were doing the long term care reserves.
We ended up with a significant charge.
I think that was more the driver of our stock repurchase not feeling good being in the market with that information in hand.
That was clearly a bigger driver then the New York funding.
I think it's important to know when you look at it Jimmy that anything in New York is contemplated in our current capital plans and everything we've talked to about up until now.
I think that -- we'll talk more about that in December but I think that that's not going to be a key driver in our capital management decisions.
Okay.
And lastly on your results overall obviously your margins have been pretty good relative to the rest of the industry but top-line growth has been fairly week.
I'm wondering if you're starting to see the benefit of just higher pickup in hiring activity or better wage inflation or do you expect to see the benefit of that over the next few quarters? Sure.
I'll take Jimmy your questions in reverse order.
From a natural growth perspective it's actually been relatively muted certainly better than a couple of years ago.
But while we have seen some addition in job growth we have not seen much by way of wage inflation.
That tends to be a pretty key driver on the natural growth side.
As of yet it has not been a big contributor to the top line.
I guess I would characterize top-line growth as actually building some pretty decent momentum to be honest with you over the last four to five quarters actually.
As I think has been mentioned a few times on the Unum US side earned premium growth is about 7%.
What we've seen in the industry depends a little bit on the product but it's more than 2% to 3% 3.5% range.
We fell actually pretty good about the sustained level of top-line growth.
I would add to that too Jimmy as you mentioned we do have some very good margins and so when you combine those two together it turns into a very good profit story as well as a capital generation story.
We will take our next question from Mark Hughes with SunTrust.
The UK benefit ratio 68% this quarter.
Is that more likely to stay in the upper 60%s or is this just unusually good? Jack you want to touch this? It was a good quarter from a risk perspective in the UK.
I would note that there's some volatility in the UK benefit ratio because it's affected by inflation in the index link portfolio.
Inflation was very muted in the UK in the quarter.
That helps out if you had a bigger spike in inflation or IDI in a given quarter it can go the other way.
But again that aside the underlying risk results were very favorable for the quarter and I would expect to see the loss ratio over time continue to hover above the level that it's historically hovered at.
There has been some discussion of tightening up eligibility for disability benefits.
I think the new budget has some provisions for that.
Did that mean anything to you? You're correct.
There was a series of changes around SSDI that were part of recent budget deals.
To be honest there's a lot of details to be worked out they're so pretty high level in nature but even as we've taken those high-level comments and looked at them pretty thoroughly we don't see a material impact.
One thing we will watch pretty carefully is there is some additional pressure to increase the number of administrative law judges.
We've got a big of backlog in SSDI currently so should there be movement there that would certainly be helpful to us.
But as I look across the other provisions I think we're going to be in reasonably good stead.
And then finally the tax rate.
It looked like it was a little higher this quarter if I read it properly.
What should we assume going forward? It was a little higher this quarter.
That was the result of the expiration of the active financing exemption.
It was a three quarter catch up for that.
That was about a 1% change in the tax rate.
We'd expect that to normalize over time to be one quarter effect.
But we would expect -- so that was a bump in the quarter a one-time effect we didn't expect to drift toward that 31%.
We will take our next question from Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
First question was just on the large case sales growth you had in group.
I know you de-emphasized that for the last few years and should we view the pickup there as coming off the bottom? Or the pricing change in the larger case market has it improved? Can you provide some color there? I think Jack hit on this a bit.
We did see very strong growth in the 13% in the pure quarter.
We were down in the first quarter and the second quarter.
I wouldn't look at it so much as down and then now we're up on a sustained basis.
I would expect quarter to quarter just given the large size of the transaction in that market and the fact that we are opportunistic and we'll only write it when we can do so at what we think are sustainable price levels.
They will fluctuate over time.
I would contrast the volatility that we see on the new sales front with what we see in persistency.
That has been consistently very strong at 90% to slightly above 90% in the large case market.
As well as the growth that we are able to achieve through the existing customer block.
That's been a pretty persistent additive feature of how we client manage in the large case market.
And the two net out to some decent earned premium growth there.
I wanted to shift gears onto long term care.
I want to reference looking at this Moody's report which shows an analysis of long term care in Unum's and one of the companies in the peer group.
And the one thing that stood out to me is Unum among these five companies is the only one that doesn't incorporate future rate increases into its reserves which would be obviously more conservative.
As I think about the next few years you've obviously had some sizable charges going back over the last several years.
Are you able to change that at all? Because obviously that would offset interest-rate related charges or could offset interest-rate related charges.
How should we think about that? I would note and to be clear about that we don't include the prospect of filing additional rate increases into the future into our reserves.
However we do include assumptions around currently filed rate increases in our reserves.
Yes sorry.
Right.
They did specify that point.
It's not yet filed rate increases.
Yes.
That are not included in your reserves.
My question is could you make a change or given that you have not done it to date or you are precluded from making an adjustment like that in the future.
We're not precluded from making those adjustments in the future.
I would note that we are in loss recognition.
Reserves are locked in.
And so you would only make that change to the extent that you anticipated future losses.
We feel good about where our reserve assumptions are.
And so we're not feeling pressure around future losses in the forward.
If it came up and we felt the need to file additional rate increases we would look to include those if we unlocked the reserves.
Okay.
But we shouldn't be anticipating that you would move to what looks like more of an industry standard where you begin to use not yet filed rate increases? No.
I would not anticipate us moving there.
I think the other thing is when you look at that -- even with the industry it's more around reserve adequacy studies than it is around actual reserve levels.
Very few of those companies have actually unlocked their reserves.
Last question can you comment at all about what's been some fears over Social Security Administration not having proper funding for disability and what you think about that and what that might mean for you over the next few years? I think that you heard from Mike in terms of some of the things are going through right now but there is positive things too Mike you want to touch on.
As part of the recent budget deal what's happened 11 times prior happened for a 12th time which was reallocating a portion of the payroll taxes from SS retirement to the DI trust fund.
That effectively pushes out insolvency from sometime late next year to 2022.
It doesn't solve for the issue but certainly buys additional time.
The silver lining around some of the pressure is obviously we've got time but it is an active dialogue in Washington and we do believe that the private disability market can be part of the answer.
And so much as we expand coverage short and long term disability into the worksite our return to work focus and emphasis gets out ahead of SSDI and lowers actually the burden on that program.
In general feel like we've bought a little bit of time here on the funding issue but want to keep the dialogue active.
And then just as we mentioned prior there were a series of other changes around SSDI and we don't see those certainly in the short to midterm as consequential to us.
We will take our next question from Eric Berg with RBC.
My first question relates to long term care.
Interest rates did not rise so far this year.
I would need to review where they are but they certainly haven't risen much.
In certain parts of the year they have fallen.
How has the various factors that underlie your active life reserves in long term care in the closed block how have they developed this year? Interest rates claims lapses expenses whatever else is critical to that reserve.
How have they emerged relative to the assumptions that you reset in the fourth quarter of 2014? I guess Jack.
You're right.
Interest rates haven't risen this year but as you recall when we set the assumptions at the end of 2014 we did not anticipate a rise in interest rates.
In fact we communicated that we set that assumption assuming interest rates would remain relatively flat for the next five years and then gradually revert to more of a long term average rate over the subsequent five years.
Our expectations there have been fulfilled for the first year.
They've remained relatively flat.
We have another three or four years left of anticipation of flat interest rates.
That piece is fine.
With respect to the rest of the reserve assumptions I'd look to earnings.
Our loss ratio has been pretty consistent this year.
It's been right in our target range and we are yet to fully complete our reserve adequacy study but there is nothing in the way the results have emerged that would cause us concern.
One separate question regarding voluntary market both for Unum US and for Colonial.
It's interesting to me that your sales are as strong as they are.
I say it's interesting because in the savings business and I realize that you're a traditional insurer and not really in the savings business if at all in the savings business.
In the savings business insurers that are in it have found it very tough to get line employees middle income Americans to save materially more.
What I have read in surveys that I have read is that people say they often don't have the money at the end of the month with all their expenses to save more.
Against that backdrop and that context what's your best sense as to why voluntary sales are doing as well as they are since they are basically the same people who say I can't save more.
Let's turn to it Tim Arnold to talk about our Colonial Life business model and what you're seeing Tim.
We believe that our model offering benefits counselors who help people understand the need and who really make it real for the person in a one-on-one benefits counseling session when they see the impact of a larger deductible in their medical plan or where they recognize that they have zero life insurance or almost no life insurance to help provide for their families if something happened to them.
I think the benefits counselor plays an enormous role in this.
I also think that economically we're beginning to see some improvement in the unemployment rate.
Certainly lower gas prices don't hurt because the people who are buying our products are also putting gas in vehicles.
And so I think there's some economic factors driving our success but I also believe that the value of that benefits counselor and the opportunity to educate a consumer about the needs and gaps in their financial protection and the opportunities they have to protect themselves and their families for a very modest premium is extremely helpful to our sales.
We will take our next question from Ken Billingsley with Compass Point.
I did want to follow on the Colonial Life side and more specifically I realize one quarter does not make a trend but when you look at the persistency versus the strong sales growth is there something in the quarter where there was pricing or product specific that it appears that new customers were really interested in the product but some of your older customers maybe didn't value it as much compared to prior trends? It really wasn't that scenario.
Again we did a fairly deep analysis of the persistency trends in the quarter and we came away with the view that it is normal volatility.
We were impacted by a couple of large case lapses and there were some consumer level lapses that were a bit above average as well but when you look back across the last 8 to 10 quarters you'll occasionally see a little bit of volatility.
This quarter was a little bit higher than most but we don't believe this is the new normal.
We don't think this is a trend that will have us in the 78.5% persistency rate going forward.
Were there any changes in the product makeup for pricing in the last three or four quarters that may be impacting that decision? Not really.
The group products typically have a little lower persistency than the individual products and we are seeing more growth in group products but we don't believe that that will have a long term depressing effect on our persistency overall.
Okay.
The other question I have is on the long term care side.
This is from the press release as well.
Specifically to long term care you mentioned that lower claim recoveries were an issue.
What does that actually mean when you apply it to long term care? What does lower claim recoveries mean from a negative impact? Lower claim recoveries it's recoveries.
People have a hip replacement or something they're out for a while.
They get better and they go off of benefits or perhaps they were receiving one form of care that was covered and move to another form of care that may not.
So it's people who had something happen they've either gotten better or have changed their care location and as a result are no longer eligible for payment.
I note in long term care though that recoveries in long term care are a much smaller portion of the pie than they are in light disability where most people do recover.
The bigger driver of long term care results is mortality on disabled lives.
Okay.
This is not a subjugation issue.
It's specifically a recovery of a person? No it's a recovery issue.
Of the individual okay.
Claim recovery.
We will take our next question from John Nadel with Piper Jaffray.
A couple of quick ones one I was really interested in some commentary I guess it's a couple of weeks ago now at an industry conference where there was really the focal point was on M&amp;A activity across the entire insurance space whether life property casualty global et cetera.
There was some commentary at the conference that indicated that there was a pickup probably off of an anemic level albeit but a pickup in interest amongst potential buyers in long term care block.
Have you heard that? Have you seen any incremental activity there? Are you starting to get a little more hopeful? There has been a pickup in discussion around interest in long term care block.
It's been building over the last couple of years.
I would say most of the interest is related to the asset side of the balance sheet.
I think there's still some trepidation on the liability side.
We are in active discussions with people about alternatives for enhancing the capital efficiency of that block but I wouldn't say that any kind of a big deal right now feels imminent.
I think there still needs to be more work done on the liability side of the balance sheet in order to structure something.
I think John this is following a path we talked about even a couple of years ago which is it's going to go through a progression where there's more data coming into the industry there's people getting more knowledgeable about what's going on in the industry overall and so it will follow a cycle.
And I think what Jack said is exactly right.
It would take some time for them to get through the liability side and the reality is as more data is coming into the industry this block as an industry continues to age.
So we're hopeful with it.
There are some transactions out there.
There are discussions out there.
Those wouldn't have been having a couple of years ago.
That's good progress.
But as Jack said I don't think there's anything imminent there but it's something we stay very active on.
As a quick follow-up and I guess this is more of an opinion question.
If I gave you the choice between the portion of the curve let's call it 20 to 30 years on the curve if I gave you the choice between 100 basis points higher there or somewhat improving and more specific data which one would you choose as the greater influence on something potentially getting done? I can answer that.
It sounds dangerous.
It's a trick question.
I think that when you look at it I think-- By the way I can't make either one of those happen.
I think when you think about interest rates interest rates can be modeled.
It's very clear very straightforward and can be priced.
That side of it I think can be understood and much better known.
People have opinions on both sides of that but that's the market.
I think it is about the data.
It is about the understanding of the liability.
It is getting better but it's going to take time because data is still flowing in.
It's not just because of better analysis.
It's because real data is still flowing into the market.
That's going to the unknown that when we get to that point where people are comfortable with that things will take shape.
Jack you want to add to that? The only thing I would add to that John is I'd take the 100 basis points hands down because that improves our position whether we come to a deal or not.
And not just for your long term care block.
My other question for you and I recognize and I think everybody on the phone recognizes that you'll give a more formal or a formal outlook for 2016 in another month and half or so.
But a question for you is this.
At least as consensus is currently formed there is clearly an expectation that your EPS growth rate if we're looking at the lower end of the 2% to 5% for 2015 there is clearly an expectation that that growth rate will accelerate in 2016.
I'm part of that consensus and I agree with it.
I just wonder whether you can affirm at this point of view that given what you're seeing top-line trends slightly better long term investment rates the effect of your capital management program et cetera.
Is all of that enough to offset some of the continued downward pressure on investment income to accelerate the growth rate in 2016? We appreciate that John as our last question too of the day.
I think there's too many moving pieces to do that in a quick snippet so I think that when we get to investor day which is an advertisement for that we'll take you through all the moving pieces.
But I think what you can expect to hear is about growth trends how the industry rate environment which we said multiple times continues to provide a little bit of pressure and then how you weave capitalize management into all that.
It's more than just a quick snippet answer.
We'll take you through a lot of detail on that on December 17 and we'll leave it at that.
There are no additional questions in the queue at the time.
Thanks everybody for joining us this morning.
Reiterate good third quarter.
We're already working on the fourth quarter and we'll see you at investor day on December 17.
Thanks a lot.
Bye bye.
That concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Unum Group fourth quarter 2015 earnings results conference.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Tom White.
Please go ahead sir.
Great.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call for Unum.
Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements which are statements that are not of current or historical fact.
As a result actual results might differ materially from these results suggested by these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning factors that could cause results to differ appears in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are also located in the sections titled cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements and risk factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2014 and our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Our SEC filings can be found in the Investors section of our website at www.unum.com.
I remind you that the statements in today's call speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
As we discuss our financial results this quarter I'll remind you that our prior period results have been adjusted for our retrospective adoption of the accounting standards update for tax credit partnership investments and qualified affordable housing projects.
Adjusted prior period results are available on our website in a supplemental exhibit.
A presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP measures and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures included in today's presentation can be found in our statistical supplement on our website also in the Investor section.
So participating in this morning's conference call are Unum's President and CEO Rick McKenney; CFO Jack McGarry; as well as the CEOs of our core business segments Mike Simonds for Unum U.S.; Peter O'Donnell for Unum U.K.; and Tim Arnold for Colonial Life.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Rick.
Great.
Thank you Tom and good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
We finished 2015 on a strong note with fourth quarter operating income at $0.95 per share.
That's an increase of 6.7% over last year brining the full year EPS to $3.64 which is an increase of 3.7%.
We ended the year in the middle of our outlook range of 2% to 5% which we were tracking to all year.
I'm especially pleased with the balance performance we continue to show on our core business segments with good levels of premium growth complemented by stable benefits experienced across all lines.
This combination helps to drive strong profit margins and excellent capital generation for the company.
Our financial flexibility continues to be an important asset to us as we move into 2016 as we look to take advantage of the opportunities for profitable growth and to expand our leadership positions in the employee and voluntary benefits markets.
I'll cover a few highlights for the fourth quarter and then Jack will provide an analysis of our results in greater detail.
I'll start with premium growth in our core business segments which continues at a healthy and well-balanced pace.
For the fourth quarter premiums in each of our three core segments Unum U.S.
Unum U.K.
and Colonial Life all increased by more than 5%.
For Unum U.S.
fourth quarter's sales had a difficult comparison given the 25% jump we saw in the year-ago fourth quarter.
But for the full year 2015 we generated an increase of just over 4% at the top end of our expectations coming into 2015.
In addition Unum U.S.
persistency trends remains favorable and our ongoing focus on renewals help drive the 5.5% increase in premium income.
Unum U.K.
sales in local currency improved in the fourth quarter with growth of 11% driven largely by strong results in the core market long-term disability sales and large case group life sales.
Combined with improving persistency and the benefit of a recently acquired dental business Unum U.K.
generated 5% growth in premiums in the fourth quarter as well.
Finally at Colonial Life sales growth continues to be quite encouraging increasing 5% for the fourth quarter and almost 7% for the full year helping to generate premium growth of just over 5% for the quarter.
Next it's important that we have not sacrificed the profitability of our core businesses to generate this premium growth as our benefits experiences remain stable across all three business segments.
In fact the benefit ratios for the three core business segments improved for the full year 2015 relative to 2014.
Jack will provide additional detail on these trends in his commentary.
Given these operating results we continue to produce a very strong level of capital which provides us substantial financial flexibility.
This flexibility allows us to fund the capital required to grow our business while also returning capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends as we bought back $427 million of stock in 2015.
In addition we have continued to grow our book value per share with book value now at $35.90 an increase of 8.4% for the year consistent with the growth we have generated since 2008.
And finally the macro-environment including the ongoing low interest rate environment continues to present challenges.
Interest rates and investments spreads remain below historical levels and below our portfolio yields.
Our focus remains on actively managing through this environment by steadily talking pricing actions but in the near-term it does continue to dampen our profit growth.
So with these highlights on our fourth quarter performance I'll have Jack cover our results in greater detail.
Jack? Thank you Rick and good morning everyone.
Rick provided a high-level overview of our fourth quarter results and now I want to provide a more in-depth view of the operating and business trends we saw in the quarter.
I'll being with Unum U.S.
where fourth quarter operating income was $214.2 million an increase of 2.2% from the year-ago quarter of $209.5 million.
Premium income growth remains very healthy increasing 5.5% over the year-ago quarter while the benefit ratio for Unum U.S.
segment improved slightly to 71.1% in the quarter compared to 71.3% in the year-ago quarter.
The profitability of Unum U.S.
remained strong with an operating ROE of 13.1% for the fourth quarter and 13.3% for the full year.
Within the Unum U.S.
segment operating income in our group disability business was $66.1 million an increase of 0.3% from the year-ago quarter of $65.9 million.
Premium income increased 5.5% over the year-ago quarter but we continue to see pressure on net investment income which declined by 5.7% compared to the year-ago quarter driven by lower asset levels lower portfolio yields and lower miscellaneous investment income.
Benefits experience improved in the fourth quarter relative to the year-ago quarter.
The benefit ratio was 81.7% for the fourth quarter compared to 83.7% a year ago driven primarily by lower claims incidents rates and favorable claim recovery experience in our group long-term disability product line as well as favorable benefits experience in our group short-term disability line.
Group Life and AD&amp;D operating income was $54.3 million for the fourth quarter a decline of 8.4% from the year-ago quarter.
Premium income continues to grow at a favorable levels increasing 5.2% over the year-ago quarter.
The benefit ratio was 72% for the fourth quarter compared to 70.8% in the year-ago quarter due to a higher average paid claim size for the group life line in the AD&amp;D line of business.
While the benefit ratio was higher on a year-over-year basis the portfolio experience was generally consistent with the 71.8% benefit ratio for the full year 2015.
Operating income in the supplemental and voluntary lines was very strong at $93.8 million in the fourth quarter an increase of 11.3% compared to $84.3 million in the year ago quarter.
Premium income growth trends were also strong for this line of business increasing 5.7% in the quarter compared to last year.
From the benefits perspective results were in line with our expectations.
The fourth quarter benefit ratio for the individual disability line was 33.8% on an interest adjusted basis and 48% for the voluntary benefits lines.
Looking at Unum U.K.
operating income was £24.4 million for the fourth quarter an increase of 1.2% over the year-ago quarter of £24.1 million.
The benefit ratio was 69.9% for the fourth quarter compared to 68.8% in the year-ago quarter driven primarily by higher interest claim incidence trends in the group long-term disability and group life lines of business which were partially offset by improved claim recoveries.
Overall profitability of the U.K.
segment remains quite favorable with an operating ROE at 20.6% for the fourth quarter and 18% for the full year.
Colonial Life continues to generate strong consistent results with operating income of $77.6 million a 4.9% increase over the year-ago quarter of $74 million.
The benefit ratio improved to 51.2% for the fourth quarter compared to 52.3% for the year-ago quarter driven by favorable benefits experienced in the accident sickness and disability product line.
Margins remain strong for Colonial Life with an operating ROE at 16.4% this quarter and 16.6% for the full year.
Finally for the Closed Block operating income was $28.1 million in the fourth quarter compared to $29.4 million in the year-ago quarter excluding the 2014 long-term care reserved charge.
The benefits experienced for the individual disability line was in line with our expectations.
The increase in the interest adjusted loss ratio to 87.2% in the fourth quarter compared to 81% in the year-ago quarter was largely driven by a reduction in the reserve discount rate to recognize the impact on future portfolio yields from the higher than normal level of miscellaneous net investment income.
For the long-term care line the interest adjusted loss ratio was 89.7% for the fourth quarter compared to 89.6% for the year-ago quarter excluding the reserve charge.
The underlying risk experience for long-term care was consistent with our long-term expectations for the full year 2015 interest adjusted loss ratio of 87.6% within our expected range of 85% to 90%.
Regarding the reserve position for long-term care we feel good about where we finished 2015 in terms of reserved adequacy.
For the year our new money yields exceeded our interest rate assumptions and risk results remained within our long-term expectations.
In addition rate increase approvals and implementation are tracking in line with our reserve assumptions.
One additional comment on long-term care the cash flow testing reserve addition we recorded for our New York subsidiary First Unum was $68 million at yearend 2015.
I'll now move to the growth trends we experienced across the company in the quarter.
Again starting with Unum U.S.
total sales declined by 3.7% for the fourth quarter compared to a year ago.
This was not unexpected as we had very strong sales results from the year-ago fourth quarter and we continue to increase rates during the year.
For the full year Unum U.S.
sales increased by 4.2% which was solidly above the top end of our expectation of 2% to 4% growth.
Looking at the sales results by product line LTD sales were flat in the fourth quarter but increased 7.2% for the full year.
STD sales declined by 20% for the fourth quarter but grew slightly for the full year increasing 5.8%.
Our Group Life and AD&amp;D sales declined 2.5% for the quarter and 5.6% for the full year.
Also within Unum U.S.
we had strong sales results in individual disability for the fourth quarter increasing 30.4% to $21 million driven by success with large case enrollments.
Full year sales growth for the individual disability line was 18.8%.
Finally in the voluntary benefits product line total sales declined 7.4% for the fourth quarter.
Core market voluntary benefit sales showed very good growth while large case sales were lower against a very strong large case quarter last year.
Full year 2015 sales and voluntary benefits increased 10.3% with good balance between the core market and large case sales.
Our sales outlook for 2016 for Unum U.S.
calls for growth rate in 2% to 4% range again.
It's likely that we'll see quarterly volatility as we did in 2015 particularly given the volatility of timing of large case sales.
Persistency for Unum U.S.
continues at healthy levels.
For the group lines combined persistency was 90.3% for the full year 2015 which was stable with the 90.5% for 2014.
Given these sales trends and persistency levels along with the underlying management of in-force renewals we generated premium income growth for Unum U.S.
this quarter of 5.5%.
Full year premium growth was 6.4% consistent with our long-term outlook for this segment and our strongest rate of growth in many years.
Sales in Unum U.K.
rebounded nicely in the fourth quarter increasing 11.2% in local currency with favorable trends in the core market group long-term disability product line and in group life.
For the full year sales grew by 6.2%.
Persistency in the group disability line was 89.2% for the full year of 2015 up slightly from 2014 levels but in line with our expectations.
Persistency for the group life line continues to recover at 80% for full year 2015 up from 76% in 2014.
Premium income growth for the U.K.
this quarter was 5.4% in local currency including the impact of the acquisition of the dental business in the third quarter and 2.3% for full year above our expectations of 0% to 2% growth.
Finally Colonial Life sales remain on a positive trend increasing 5.1% for the fourth quarter and 6.9% for the full year.
Growth this quarter was again well-balanced between the commercial market sector both the core market sales and large case sales and the public sector.
In addition each product line showed positive year-over-year growth.
Persistency for Colonial Life was slightly lower for the year at 78.5% compared to 79.4% for 2014 but premium growth continues to show good momentum increasing 5.1% in the fourth quarter compared to year-ago quarter.
Full year premium growth was also 5.1% well above the top end of our expectation of 2% to 4% growth.
Overall we remain very pleased with the growth trends we see in our core business segments as well as the profit margins we're maintaining.
Looking now at investment results new money yields were slightly better in the fourth quarter compared to the first nine months of 2015.
However to date new money yields remain below our current portfolio yields so the downward pressure on our portfolio yields and net investment income continues to impact our profitability.
We're actively raising prices in our markets to help manage this impact.
The credit quality of our investment portfolio remains in very good shape.
Our overall default experience relative to the Moody's index was again very favorable at 15 basis points for full year 2015 compared to 80 basis points for the index.
I'd like to give you an update on our energy-related holdings which totaled $5 billion or 11.6% of our total fixed maturity securities at yearend 2015.
The severe widening of credit spreads in the energy sector during the fourth quarter reduced the net unrealized gain from $302.8 million as of September 30 2015 to a net unrealized loss of $51.4 million at December 31 2015.
We saw relatively more spread widening in the oilfield services and independent oil and gas sectors of our portfolio.
As we discussed with you on our Outlook Meeting at December these sectors tend to be the most sensitive companies to oil prices.
The sectors represent 4% and 29.8% of our energy holdings respectively and had a net unrealized loss of $114.9 million as of yearend.
The remaining two-thirds of our energy holdings are in midstream companies integrated oil companies and refiners.
These holdings are much less sensitive to oil prices and have a net unrealized gain of $63.5 million at yearend.
Our exposure to below investment grade energy credits declined slightly in the quarter to 14.1% of the energy holdings compared to 14.8% at the end of the third quarter.
Approximately three quarters of the below-investment grade exposure is in the more highly rated BB category.
Realized losses in energy holdings from both losses on sales and from impairments were $20.1 million pre-tax for the fourth quarter.
We have thoroughly reviewed our energy holdings and looked at a number of stressed scenarios.
While downgrades of holdings and some impairments may happen over time we feel the impacts are very manageable and do not alter our financial or capital plans.
Moving to capital management we continue to see very favorable trends.
We repurchased $100 million of our stock this quarter bringing the total repurchases to $427 million in full year 2015 which is approximately 4.9% of our yearend 2014 outstanding shares.
We estimate we closed the year with a weighted average risk-based capital ratio for our traditional U.S.
life insurance companies at approximately 400% consistent with the levels we've held throughout the year and towards the higher end our expected range for the year.
Holding company cash and marketable securities was $475 million at yearend and statutory operating earnings were $182.4 million for the fourth quarter and $689.2 million for full year 2015 a strong sales level of earnings in an 11.5% increase over 2014.
Finally I'll note our tax rate in the fourth quarter of 28.5% was favorable relative to the 30.9% rate that we've recorded for the first three quarters of the year.
This was primarily driven by a reduction in deferred tax liability related to our U.K.
operations as a result of the enactment of future reductions in the U.K.
tax rate.
And also the benefit of the extension of active financing in the fourth quarter that reverse the tax expense we've recorded in the third quarter.
Wrapping up our expectation for after-tax operating income per share for 2016 has not changed from what we previously discussed at our Outlook Meeting in December.
We did finished 2015 with a higher level of income than we had anticipated so the growth rate for 2016 off of the $3.64 up 2015 operating income per share is expected to be within a range of 3% to 6%.
So overall it was a very good fourth quarter and a very strong full year performance for the company.
Now I'll turn things back to Rick for his closing comments.
Thanks Jack.
And just to wrap up before we go on to your questions.
I'll reiterate from a company operating perspective it was a very good quarter and year for our company.
We've seen the resumption of topline growth for our core businesses and done so without sacrificing our profitability.
Our statutory earnings are strong which helps to generate capital to not only maintain a very healthy balance sheet for a troubling macro environment but also a flexibility to grow and also return capital to our shareholders.
This all positions us very well as we move into 2016.
We'll move now on to your questions so I'll ask Cynthia to begin the questions-and-answer session.
Cynthia? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ryan Krueger from KBW.
In supplemental and voluntary the benefit ratios were a little bit higher than they have been running recently? And then DAC amortization was lower.
Can you talk about what drove those two things? And if they were I guess related to each other? There is some relation particularly in the voluntary benefit lines.
Some of the products within those lines have active life reserves.
And so if those policies terminate you release the active life reserve and you write up the DAC associated with them.
Actually our persistency was a little better particularly in those product lines that have those active life reserves and so that resulted in a little bit higher loss ratio and a little bit lower amortization of the DAC balance and net-net the earnings impact was very minimal.
And then on long-term care can you remind us what interest rate trajectory you're assuming in your GAAP long-term care reserves at this point? Jack do you want to take that? Yes.
So as we told you -- actually its been a year ago now in the fourth quarter of 2014 we had assume that interest rates would stay level with the rates they're at somewhere around the 5% range all in for the next years and then would gradually revert to a long-term average over the subsequent five years.
So the 5% is a new money rate? Yes all in.
And then Rick you said new money rates were bit better than that in 2015? Do you know where they are now? I mean it's hard to tell with treasury yields have clearly gone down over the last couple of weeks spreads have widened since the end of the year so I wouldn't have a spot rate for you.
And next we have John Nadel from Piper Jaffray.
I guess Rick a bit of a philosophical question for you.
I find it kind of staggering I guess the market is somewhere around 10% off of its all time highs and yet Unum's shares are trading 30% 35% below your 52 week high and sort of staggering discount to book-value per share.
I am just curious how you think about the pace of capital management in particular when you think about a 400% risk-based capital ratio relative to your business mix and that coming off of a very strong year of statutory operating income in 2015? Sure John.
Just to give you some perspectives on that I think that one of the things that I'd bring you back to very quickly though is we operate this company in the same way we've been operating it very consistent.
We're growing the company now margins are still very good.
And we as a team here are focused very much on that.
In terms of what's going on in the market around us so there's a lot of things out there in the news continued lower interest rate environment questions about the economy there's so many things that impact our stock price we try not to focus on that from an operating perspective.
Well it does actually meet up with how we think about managing the capital of the company as we are buying back our shares and have been doing so for the last several years.
So when you look at that you think about where we're buying back shares today relative to where we were even in the fourth quarter and for over the average of the year and how does that impact for our thinking.
And what I take you to and this gets to your philosophical point is we actually on that front stay very consistent as well.
So we think about ourselves as being a steady returner more capital to our shareholders.
We'll buy a little bit more when prices are down and a little bit less when prices are up but consistency of return is something that we focus on as a general philosophy of the company but also with regards to capital management.
So as we look at where our share price is today we would be buying a lot more shares in terms of the actual dollars that we're putting out you'll probably see a pretty consistent level to what we've done in the past.
So no significant -- if we think about it relative to your outlook for 2016 I think you had formally indicated that dollar amount of buybacks would probably be pretty similar to the level spent in 2015 no significant adjustment there then Rick? I think that's probably fair.
And when you think about it we're buying back shares with the capital with free capital we're generating so this isn't something other than as we generate that capital which we've done so very consistently we're returning that to our shareholders through share repurchase and as a result of that our steady operating performance would say that we'll be pretty steady in terms of returning capital as well.
And then a quick one on the tax rate.
Just is there any implication as you look out to 2016 Jack as a result of the U.K.
adjustment or do we stick with the 31% to 32% range that I think you guys have expected for this year? No I think that 31% to 32% range that was kind of a one-time shift.
It's not going to really move when you've got that much going forward.
And then last one is maybe for Mike and that's just a question about January 1 very important obviously sales and retention period.
Any color you can offer as to what's going on in the U.S.
market there? So first would be you're right it is an important date for us on the renewal front a good news there.
So persistency is in line with what our expectations are.
That's great that the big driver of the topline.
But also as you know we've been putting gradual price increases into the market about every six months over the last 18 months to 24 months.
So sticky business is always good but particularly when you're gradually increasing rates particularly in group insurance to account for the low interest rate environment that we talked about so feel good about that.
On the new business front you'd sort of see a slight decline in sales this year.
I think we're down about 3% in the fourth quarter.
But as both Rick and Jack highlighted actually 4Q came in right in line with our expectations.
We faced a really difficult comp up 25% a year ago.
So good to finish for the full year right at or just over to top of the range we laid out to you guys at the beginning of the year.
And our next question is from Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
First if you could discuss the potential for reductions in the disability reserve discount rate given what's happened with interest rates? And maybe if you could provide us some sort of sensitivity on what a basis points change in the discount rate would do to your benefits ratio in the U.S.
disability business? Jack do you want to pick up? Yes so we've seen reductions we've seen the interest rates fall since yearend.
This is very similar to what happened last year actually too during this period.
It doesn't mean they're going to stay there for the full year.
We've also seen spreads widening.
I'd point you back to the fourth quarter where actually our new money rates were higher than we've seen in quite a while.
And we're supportive about reserve assumptions in both disability lines as well as long-term care lines.
We keep track of that.
We keep raising rates in response to the lower interest environment.
We look for opportunities to book money to work at good yields.
And it's something we'll look at during the year.
I'd say that we're pretty comfortable right now that throughout 2015 that we won't be forced to take a precipitous action because we have a good margin and interest margin now in our reserves but its something we continue to look at and decide as we do our reserve reviews.
And the sensitivity is about 25 basis points is about roughly $12 million in BTOE on an annualized basis.
And then on long-term care obviously rates are challenging but how are the other things going as the claims trends your success in achieving price hikes versus what you might assumed when you took the reserve charge in the fourth quarter of 2014? Yes so actually since we took the charge in 2014 things have been pretty much in line with our expectations.
There has been some volatility quarter-to-quarter but client trends has stayed in that range of the 85% to 90% loss ratio.
And we continue to make good progress on our rate increase assumption so both the rate of approvals and the actual implementations are pretty much in line with the underlying reserve assumptions.
And then just lastly on long-term care.
As you mentioned you're assuming stable rates or you assumed stable rates for five years and then an increase in rates thereafter.
So philosophically if rates remain lower through this year or maybe even next year you would have gone two to three years into that.
Would you review your assumptions again or would you just wait for the first five years to go through and then review them? We consistently review our assumptions.
So we do reserve reviews at the end of every year based on the assumptions and I think the question we would ask ourselves when looking at that is has our outlook for the future changed.
And it's not going to change rapidly but certainly something we continue to look at as we do our reserve reviews.
And our next question is from Randy Binner from FBR.
I guess I just want to follow-up on Jimmy's question there because I guess the mean reversion I guess by definition gets worse every year that rates stay low.
So just to paraphrase that are you saying that the mean reversion hasn't changed enough for you to unlock now but if we're sitting at the similar or lower level rates from a year from now would that kind of technically lead to an unlock just because the data is changing? No I wouldn't say it would technically lead to an unlock.
Again it's something we will look at what our view of the future is when we do our reserve reviews at yearend but there is no magic kind of we have to do this if this happens associated with it.
I think unlike you mention the word unlock and this is not an unlock.
So when you look at it this is also not a mean reversion.
So this is a view on path of interest rate so over a 10-year period of time.
And as Jack said that's an outlook that we had last year going to through the process and it really hasn't changed as of now.
And so it's not something that we look at a mean reversion as you think about traditional method.
And then just jumping over to the credit side.
Is there any update -- the disclosure around your energy exposure is very good relative to your peer so we appreciate that.
And as you mentioned in the opening remarks the unrealized loss really is not that big at least as of yearend.
I'd be interested in any update kind of on what year-to-date activities look like there from an unrealized position? And if there has been any action by Unum to de-risk energy or any other credits that are moving out or if conversely you're seeing this as maybe an opportunity to add more at wider spreads? We're certainly not starting with the last thing first.
We're not viewing this as an opportunity to add more at wider spreads.
We always actively manage our portfolio.
So we are a credit shop.
We're looking at our energy things.
Spreads have widened since yearend so that unrealized loss would be somewhat bigger.
We haven't fully valued the portfolios yet so we don't know what the size of that is.
But again probably the important thing to note is we are all over our energy portfolio.
We looked at we stress tested it under a number of different scenarios.
When we look at it we consider both the realized losses that we may have to take as well as the RBC impact of any downgrades that we would foresee.
And because of the strong financial position we go into 2016 with we view this as a very manageable issue for us.
There is nothing we see right now that would change our outlook for capital plans for 2016.
On the stress test is there anything you can share with those? You're talking about ratings migration down and RBC ratio and then just I guess straight credit losses.
Is there anything you can share on what you've run from a stress case scenario? I mean we start with an oil price trajectory and a set of assumptions around that.
I'm not going to go into the specifics of what that trajectory is but it's actually consistent with if not more conservative than kind of overall market estimates and we've taken some downside scenarios from there.
And throughout it's not that -- there are some things that come up there but they're very manageable within our capital plan.
The next is Erik Bass from Citigroup.
I guess as you went through the yearend enrollment season did you see any material change in consumer behavior particularly in terms of election rates for voluntary products? Mike you want to start and then we'll go to Tim.
In general actually we saw it's slightly higher participation rates.
And while we're still debriefing and understanding I think a couple of things contributing.
First has been across both the Unum and Colonial Life brand continued investments in our enrollment and education capabilities that we always want to be a little bit better each year at what we do.
And then the other piece was we certainly saw disposable income.
You look at where the price of oil that created a little of capacity I think for the average consumers so that played through as well.
Tim on Colonial Life? Yes absolutely.
We saw the same trends.
And the only thing I would add aside from what Mike mentioned is we continue to believe that both the Affordable Care Act as well as employer behavior around deductibles on medical plans are helping drive some increased participation in our products as well.
And then can you just remind this how much exposure you have to the energy sector or to related sectors from a client perspective? Yes sure.
So I think we look at it across all the product lines but probably most acutely in the long-term disability product line.
We've got about 2% of our block in energy.
And we've actually gone back and looked at the cycle of energy prices over a couple of decades and haven't really seen much for a correlation with incidence and we're certainly not seeing any misbehaving risk from this point but we look at pretty much every industry sector all the time.
And our next question comes from Humphrey Lee with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Just a follow-up on the investment yield.
You talked about 2015 being a little higher.
What are you seeing in terms of value right now kind of getting you to that 5% range especially for supporting the long-term care? I think it's driven by two things.
One of the big ones is spreads widened.
And although the yield curve has flattened at the front-end it's still stayed pretty steady at the long-end so the spread between the 10 year and the 30 year is still in that 75 basis point to 85 basis point range.
And so when you invest in longer maturities which as a result of some of the M&amp;A activity there is a lot more long tranches available.
And you put the widened spreads on top of those you get up above the 5% range through the end of the year.
There is also alternative investments we put a portion of the portfolio -- have continued to put a portion into high yield where spreads have widened as well.
And then some of your peers talked about there is some disruptions in a group insurance marketplace because of company's exiting the business or consolidations going on.
Can you just talk abut in general the overall market environments for Unum U.S.
and Colonial Life? Mike you want to start? Sure.
So we have seen a bit of consolidation with a few names I'd say sort of mid-sized coming together and/or being required by an international player.
I wouldn't say that that has led to a significant disruption.
So if we look at things like again the renewal rates for us have been right in line to slightly favorable.
I think the proposal activity has been generally in line with what we've seen across the segment so not a big disruption I would point to.
But I do think if you think about the market in general there's sort of the capabilities that are offered and we have seen a few new entrants into the market but the good news for us is capabilities in terms of the process the technology and the people they take a substantial amount of time to build so we feel pretty good about the head start we have there.
The pricing environment just to give you some color I would say is pretty typical.
We've got a few carriers that are having stepped back and repriced to improve margins.
And then we've got a few that are probably leaning a bit more into growing their books and I think that kind of balances out so a pretty typical pricing environment.
Yes I think the story is similar.
We are now seeing any disruption based on consolidation.
Blocks have been very stable.
And where I think they will show up first will be in our large case block and we're not seeing any disruption there.
And our next question comes from Michael Kovac from Goldman Sachs.
A technical question here.
I'm thinking about the bond portfolio.
When we look at some of the unrealized los positions that have been there for over a year and that grew obviously in the fourth quarter relative to the third quarter how do you determine when you take an impairment on those bonds? Is it well sort of the level at which they're trading below fair value or is there certain time horizon? Just maybe if you could give some help in terms of thinking about when you would take such a charge? Jack you want to share our views on that.
So there is no hard and fast rules around when you would recognize an impairment but there are some guidelines and we consider four things.
The first is is it money good so do we believe that we're going to get principal on interest payments out of it.
The second thing we'll consider is do we intend to hold it to recovery and so if we do that would keep it at book value.
The third thing you consider is are they current on interest on principal payments.
And then beyond that it tends to be a security-by-security analysis its a judgment about whether we believe over time this will recover and be money good and so there is no hard and fast rules.
We work with our investment department we work with our auditors and we come to judgments on the securities.
And then switching gears a little bit thinking about the environment for rate increases in long-term care it sounded like it came in sort of in line with your expectations.
Are you seeing any change in tone from regulators as we continue to be in a low interest rate environment both in terms of your position in the market and in terms of seeing some other companies maybe we consider whether they are writing new business in long-term care? I think we've continued to see a positive tone from regulators.
It's certainly better today than it was three or four years ago.
Even some of the kind of late adopter states like New York are seem to be coming along and considering rate increases in a different light given the environment.
So I think it continues to get better over time.
Our next comes from Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
Jack in the Investor Day that you held back in December I was really interested in the whole discussion about how the Closed Block of individual disability business is increasingly looking like a lifetime annuity.
And I was also very interested in the distinctions that you drew in the risk characteristics of your group LTC business that is closed versus your individual business.
My inference was that maybe these businesses could be sellable re-insurable or that somehow you could free up the capital this year.
Was that the right inference? You answered no on that.
And was that the right inference? And if it was the right inference what would be the process that would follow this year to move forward on that front? Clearly looking at capital management opportunities on both of those blocks is something that we actively do and consistently.
Whether those opportunities can actually come to fruition this year it would be really hard to say.
So it's something we look at and we're in constant communications with alternative sources of capital but being able to predict whether something will actually happen or not would be beyond what I could do.
And if I could just ask one follow-up question and that would be to Rick.
Rick if the company is as flexible and as an opportunistic as you say it is if you have the capital strength to be flexible and opportunistic then why wouldn't you -- going back to John's question why wouldn't you with the stock price where it is step up your dollar amount of share repurchase to take advantage of this opportunity? Yes it's a fair question Eric.
I think it gets back to the pace at which we're doing that.
We do have that flexibility.
We could do that if we so choose.
But it comes back to the philosophy we have in the company around as we generate the capital we're going to return it to the shareholders.
Some of the excess capital positions we hold we think about it using and how we could deploy that to grow the company in different areas.
And so it's been much more on that philosophy.
You have to remember we've been doing this now if you go back for the last seven years.
And so over that period of time we've seen our stock price move up and down.
Often times it's not related to what's going on in the company.
And so we've taken advantage of some low stock prices and at the same time we bought back shares when we were at a higher price.
And so I think now is the right time to pile in to buying a whole a lot of shares I think that that's atypical for our company.
We're much more disciplined much more consistent in how we look at things.
Our next question is from Steven Schwartz from Raymond James.
First for Jack I apologize I got cut out on Randy's question with regards to energy.
Jack do you know or did you say what the market-to-market loss would be on the below investment grade energy portfolio at yearend? No we did not say that.
Could you share? The high yield let's see we were trade out -- yes so just to breakdown the numbers we have $51.4 million of unrealized loss at yearend right.
So on the investment grade side it was an unrealized gain of $138.3 million.
And so the high yield is trading in an unrealized loss of $189.7 million.
And then another numbers question.
Jack that was a $69 million charge that you took at Unum New York for long-term care at yearend? Very close $68 million.
And could you remind me is that in the statutory operating earnings that you show in the supplement? No I believe it's a capital adjustment yes.
And then for Mike maybe you could talk about kind of fourth quarter kind of natural growth trends.
I know you said elections were up a little bit but maybe employment as well.
Talk about that any other thing and also obviously for Colonial? Yes sure.
So pretty actually consistent with the last few quarters where it is a positive but it's a very modest positive and probably a point or a point-and-a-half lower than what we would see in a healthier part of the cycle.
We definitely have been looking at the macro numbers.
See good unemployment change and good employment growth.
Unfortunately a fair amount of that is coming in lower benefited part time and non-benefit eligible type employees.
So it's not flowing through at a commensurate level into our book.
One would have to believe that overtime if we're able to sustain reasonable GDP growth and continued strong employment numbers that will start moving through all the tranches on the employment base but little bit modest at this point.
I think probably not specific to natural growth but we are seeing nice results in the small case market as we shared at the Outlook Meeting.
We see a lot of opportunity in that market with almost 6 million employers in the list in the less than 100 states.
And we certainly think that that group is benefiting from the economic environment.
We think they're growing their employee base but we're seeing nice results there.
Our next question comes from Suneet Kamath with UBS.
So I guess to echo John Nadel's question I mean segment results here remain pretty strong but you've not been able to tell from the stock price.
So clearly there's something else going on which I think is based on the questions asked is the investment portfolio.
So maybe would be helpful if you give us a sense as we think about that capital generation model that you shared with us last December what sort of credit loses do you build into that model? Yes.
In that model we gave an outlook on the capital plan.
We didn't specifically in building out that model put the capital losses in there.
We have stressed the model however with capital losses under various scenarios and basically the tenants of the model particularly around free cash flow generation and share repurchase hold up very well under the stresses.
We focused a lot on the energy portfolio today but as you think about just the overall portfolio your high-yield exposure your BBB exposure any more color in terms of your watch list and what you're seeing as things develop here? The watch list has been pretty consistent.
It is mostly energy and commodities at this point.
We feel extremely good about the rest of the portfolio.
And the last one is again maybe more of a philosophical question.
As we think about your capital allocation across your businesses it seems like the portion that's allocated to the Closed Block is I don't know almost a little over a third of your capital maybe 35% 36%.
Is that factored into your thinking n other words is there a limit in terms of how big you want that allocation to be? It would seem to me that most of the capital that you're using for share repurchase is coming out of the operating segment so naturally there would be some upward drift in that allocation.
Just want to get a sense of how should we be thinking about that number? Is it a binding constraint at all? Any guidance would be helpful.
I'm not sure if it's philosophical.
When we think about the capital allocation to our Closed Block that's not where we want to be putting our capital today.
So the numbers you see here today are higher than we want them to be.
And I think that gets back to the question that Jack was answering is how do we free up that capital how we reduce the capital behind those lines of business so that we can continue to do what we've been doing in funneling more capital to our operating companies.
We're also in a fortunate position that we are generating enough capital as a company that our business lines our main operating companies are getting all the capital that they need to continue to generate growth.
I think the only constraint is more in the market and making sure that there's good profitable growth as opposed to the amount of capital we can put behind it.
So as we tell everyone inside the company is we want to funnel as much capital as we possibly can to continue to grow our lines of business.
And what we haven't found is actually a shortfall to do so and that's one of the reasons we're buying back a lot of stock is because we actually can't put as much capital as we want to behind our growing lines that are generating very high returns.
So back to original question I think that the capital allocating to our Closed Block is one that we want to reduce over time.
And as we talked about different settings that's something we're actively working on as a company.
And then just on the IDI to follow-up on Eric Berg's question.
If you were to pursue a solution just trying to get a sense of how much capital you think that could free would it be wrong to assume that would be $200 million? Yes.
I mean I don't think we can speculate on that until we have a better idea of what a solution might look like.
And our next question is from Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
First question just on long-term care.
So the interest adjusted loss ratio is in the high 80s? And I know that's in kind of the high end of the band that you all have looked at.
I guess just a follow-up as we think about whether it's 2016 or 2017 and potential risk of another reserved charge is it fair to say that if this moves north of 90% is that where you'd be potentially vulnerable for a possible reserve charge which I presume would be more on the claim side in terms of if you saw an escalation of claim trends or adverse reserve development.
But can you help us think about the numbers the interest adjust loss ratio and then potentially additions to reserves? I would say that it's a lot more complicated than that.
The reserve basis of long-term care is very detail.
There is a lot of sensitive assumptions that interplay.
We're thinking guidance that if you were above 90% for a long period of time that would be an indication of pressure on the reserves.
But it wouldn't react to one or two quarters in that range and it would really depend long-term on what the factors were that would driving you above 90%.
So I think in the past you guys have been able to say or give some indication about what at least the next year's outlook would be? Would you say based on what you know today there would be very low likelihood of a reserve addition in 2016 or is it too early to tell? I mean I don't think we've actually provided outlooks on our reserve position today at yearend.
I would say we feel comfortable with where we are today.
We just went through a reserve review that culminated in the quarter we're talking about.
So we're as close to our ending reserve review as you can get.
We feel good about that reserved review and where it ended but I'm not going to speculate about what next year's reserve reviews are going to generate.
And then just back on the energy portfolio $372 million of growth unrealized losses it was the number at yearend.
And I know year-to-date spreads have obviously gapped out further.
Do you have an update on where that would be? And then can you also just talk a little bit about your process of looking at bonds that trade say less than $0.80 on the dollars.
How does that process work internally? Is there further due diligence at certain levels? Is it $0.80 is at $0.70? Anyway those are both questions I had on it.
So clearly the spreads have widened in the energy sector since yearend so that $370 million would be wider.
We do monthly evaluations on most of the bonds in our portfolio that's not complete right now and so we don't have a number for you that we can share.
With respect to what we look at again I bring you back to the first one we look at is it money good.
Do we tend to hold it through recovery? And then are they current with interest and principal payments? You talk about the review of bonds that are under a certain percent of market to book.
The fact of the matter in our energy portfolio today we are consistently reviewing those bonds.
We're looking at all the high yield bonds.
We're looking at those bonds on an ongoing basis and actively working to manage through this so I don't think there's anything special about bonds necessarily by where they're trading relative to book because we're looking at that entire portfolio on a constant basis.
Well just as a follow upon that I thought the concept of OTTI was that even if bonds are money good but it's determined to be trading at an impaired level on a permanent basis that's where bonds are impaired at least from a gap accounting standpoint.
That sort of what I was getting at from the standpoint of not so much are you writing it down from a statutory standpoint but from a GAAP standpoint the concept of OTTI is a price-driven concept not a loss-driven concept if you know what I mean.
And our view is it's not a bright line loss-driven concept.
The big question there is as you said is it temporary or not? And so the question we have is do we expect it to -- if its money good it's going to recover because ultimately it's going to pay off and you'll get all your proceeds.
And so again it comes back to those things is it money good do we intend to hold this is it current? And clearly the longer and lower it trades kind of the more pressure and the more work you need to do to demonstrate that those first three are actually true and believable but it is not a bright line issue.
And our next question is from Seth Weiss from Bank of America.
Just to approach the question on sensitivity to capital on the investment portfolio if we look at that 45% of the portfolio that's at Baa could you help us think about how much of that may be at risk to moving to below investment grade? And then on sensitivity to the risk-based capital level is there a rule of thumb that if you could gave us in terms of every percent increase to below investment grade? And what that may do to RBC as we have some ratings migrations? I can give you a couple of things to tether to.
One is if we look at the portfolio and said if every single bond in our energy portfolio was downgraded a single notch so Baa2 went to Baa3 and Baa3 went to BB what would be the impact be that's a four point impacts on our risk-based capital.
The second tether point I'd give you if everything dropped a full letter so all our BBB's went to BB's all of our AA's went to BBB that would be a 15 point impact to our risk-based capital.
Calculating the impact on risk-based capital is more complicated than just looking at the change in the RBC factors because C1 capital gets tax affected and so that reduces the burden.
There is also a significant diversification benefit with C1 capital that further reduces the impact relative to those numbers.
So it's something that that we really need to don't work through but it's far less of an impact then just looking at the change in the percent capital holdings and multiplying them by 3.5.
And then one very quick follow-up on just the interest margin and on LTD.
I think last quarter you were at around 85 basis points in terms of that margin.
Could you just give us an update of where that stands today? It's in the low 80s.
And our next question comes from John Nadel from Piper Jaffray.
So thanks for extending and taking the follow-up.
So there's a lot of questions and a lot of focus obviously on given what rates are doing on the long-term care block.
I just want to make sure I had a couple of data points accurate.
If I think about when you took the fourth quarter 2014 charge it would have been based on -- if I understand it correctly it would have been based on where interest rates were at right around that time in the end of the year.
So the tenure was at 2.17% it averaged 2.54% for 2015 and it's now down at 1.84% or so.
I mean spreads have widened enough to well offset that 30 or so basis point reduction in the tenure have they not? I mean it sort of seems to me like this issue of a potential long-term care charge driven by rates necessitates a view that rates fall significantly further from here is that reasonable? Yes I would say that's reasonable.
So we're pretty comfortable with where we are right now.
And then the last one I have for you is just a follow-up on the mechanism for the IDI Closed Block.
There is a elevated level of prepayments income I believe in the Closed Block in the fourth quarter.
And then if you look at the interest adjusted individual disability benefit ratio that was up that is a mechanism by which you're essentially recognizing the faster payment of that investment income by shoring up the reserves with that investment income today is that right? Yes because that money is going to be invested at new money rates so it's going to put pressure on the portfolio rate underlying the discount rate.
And so we reduced the discount rate to likely offset that impact.
And then last one is just if I go back to your Investor Day presentation I think I'm looking at something around $950 million maybe slightly less than a $1 billion of cash flow to invest in 2016 for the total Closed Block.
And I recognize that a 1% difference in the new money yield has more than a one-year impact right in that investment income but we are talking about $10 million difference in a single year for 1% is that right? The $1 billion is roughly right so depending on how it comes in over the year and what rates do over the year that's pretty rough math.
But it's also that $1 billion will be invested over the year so it's not invested one-one so it would be less than $10 million.
I understand but the differential between investing at a rate 1 percentage point lower on average is literally $10 million pre-tax in a year correct? Correct.
Yes.
End of Q&amp;A John thanks for that follow-up.
And actually we're over time now so I think we'll cut it off here Cynthia.
I want to thank everybody for taking the time to join us this morning.
Actually we look forward to seeing many of you at investor conferences in the weeks ahead.
And so that completes our fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.