Greetings and welcome to the Union Pacific First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Jim Young Chairman and CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you Mr.
Young you may begin.
Good afternoon everybody.
Thanks for joining us on the call.
Before we get started I just wanted to thank you for bearing with us on our change in release schedule this time around as we work through some extra logistics in the holiday week.
We'll be back on our regular Thursday morning before market time slots next time around.
With me here today in Omaha are Jack Koraleski Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; Lance Fritz Executive Vice President of Operations; and Rob Knight our CFO.
As you can see we started the year off strong reporting record results for the first quarter.
Earnings were a record $1.29 per share a 28% increase over 2010.
Driving this gain was a 15% increase in operating income to a first quarter best of $1.1 billion.
This is the first time UP's first quarter operating income has topped the $1 billion mark.
Drivers behind the year-over-year improvement include a 5% volume increase and core pricing gain.
Jack will provide commentary on our top line growth but we again achieved volume gains in all six business groups for the fourth consecutive quarter.
Intermodal Industrial Products and Chemical shipments drove about 2/3 of the volume growth.
We did face some challenges in the quarter including extreme winter weather across most of the nation and a significant rise in fuel prices.
The team will provide more details on both of these areas in a few minutes.
Despite these challenges though we remain focused improving profitability.
We achieved a record first quarter operating ratio of 74.7% and that includes 2.4 points of negative fuel price impact.
The strong performance enabled us to generate record free cash flow after dividends.
Throughout the quarter we remained focused on delivering safe efficient high-quality service.
As Jack will show you these efforts were recognized through record customer satisfaction strong service levels delivered value for our customers while supporting our price gains and attracting new business to the railroad.
So with that I'll turn it over to Jack.
Thanks Jim and good afternoon.
So let's lead off with a look at how customers view the service and the value they're getting from the Union Pacific as measured by our customer satisfaction and I'm pleased to say that the news is good.
For the quarter customer satisfaction came in at 91 topping the previous quarterly best of 90.
And along the way we hit 92 in February setting a new best-ever monthly mark.
The strength of our value proposition great service and continued slow improvement in the economy drove our first quarter volume up 5% with gains in all six of our businesses.
First quarter is often marked by challenging weather and as Jim pointed out this year was no exception.
You can see from the chart on the upper right the impact on our seven-day carloadings resulting from the large storm that swept across the plains in the Midwest in early February ultimately dumping two feet of snow on Chicago before heading east.
The chart also highlights the resiliency of our network as volume quickly rebounded.
Core price improved 4.5% with each of the groups posting gains with the pluses and the minuses of mix offsetting in total those price gains combined with increased fuel surcharge revenue to produce an 8% increase in average revenue per car.
The stronger volume and improved revenue per car drove freight revenue up 13% to $4.2 billion a new first quarter best.
So now let's take a closer look at each one of our six businesses.
We'll start with Ag products where volumes grew 4% which combined with a 6% improvement in average revenue per car to produce revenue growth of 11%.
Global demand for whole grains accounted for most of the volume growth with a 69% increase in export wheat leading the way.
Export demand drove a 36% increase in frozen meat and poultry shipment.
Now the meat exports were up due to various local issues that reduced supply in Australia Korea and Brazil while the poultry gains were a function of a shift to export markets that favored rail.
Import beer volumes increased 10% with a boost from some new business.
Ethanol volumes grew 4% and soybean meal stayed flat as new domestic business offset a decline from last year's strong export demand that resulted from the South American crop failures.
Turning to Automotive.
Our Automotive revenue grew 12% as contract price increases drove an 8% improvement in average revenue per car and volume grew 4%.
Volume growth was hampered by the February storms that restricted shipments and closed auto plants.
Although vehicle sales were stronger than expected throughout the remainder of the quarter equipment shortages were seen across the national rail network as industry car cycles slowed due to the lingering impact of the severe winter weather.
To improve fluidity in car supply for our customers early in February we started pulling the entire Automotive fleet out of storage and by March 1 we had that process pretty well complete.
In addition we began a series of special moves to reposition empties for loading and we also launched a couple of multimodal routes to bypass congestion and help accelerate vehicles to market.
Increased vehicle production and anticipation of stronger sales in 2011 is driving the growth in both the vehicle and parts shipments.
Our finished vehicle volume grew 5% with the strongest increases coming from the Detroit Three.
Our parts shipments increased 4% with growth in tier suppliers and the Detroit Three offsetting the continued negative impact of the closing of the NUMMI plant in April of last year.
Our Chemicals revenue grew 13% as volume climbed 10% and average revenue per car was up 3%.
As I mentioned earlier mix changes across the group netted out overall but our Chemical business did see a couple of points of negative mix driven in part by an early start to the short-haul Foxrock business and growth in movements of plastics to storage and transit yards.
Growth in petroleum products which increased 34% was largely driven by increased crude oil shipments with asphalt and refined petroleum products also posting gain.
Strong seasonal demand boosted fertilizer volume 16% with a 29% increase in export potash leading the way.
But this quarter export potash represented less of the overall market than we've seen in previous quarters.
Plastic shipments increased 9% with growth in both domestic and export markets and improved industrial production drove industrial chemical volume up 6%.
In Energy a volume increase of 4% combined with an 8% improvement in average revenue per car resulting in revenue growth of 13%.
Southern Powder River Basin tonnage was up 5% driven largely by the three new Wisconsin utilities and the carryover impact of the new San Antonio unit that also came online during the second quarter of last year.
Colorado Utah tonnage declined 5% as export demand was more than offset by weakened demand in the Eastern market.
Additionally a longwall move in one of the mines will continue to reduce volumes until the third quarter.
Now we don't always highlight our other coal origins but 4 300 carloads or 65% growth out of Southern Illinois the river ports utilities and industrial customers was worth highlighting for the quarter.
Industrial Products volume grew 9% which combined with a 6% improvement in average revenue per car to drive a 15% increase in revenue.
Nonmetallic mineral shipments increased 36% as strong drilling activity continues to drive demand for frac sand barite and bentonite.
Production of pipe for drilling as well as steel coils and bars for the strengthening auto industry reflected in the 15% increase in steel and scrap.
And although the packaging paper market is showing only a slight increase so far this year our paperboard volume was up 21% with the growth coming from inventory replenishment and highway conversion.
Our Intermodal revenue grew 15%.
That's an 11% improvement in average revenue per unit combined with the volume growth of 4%.
International Intermodal volume increased 6% reflecting improved consumer demand and overcoming the timing impact of the Chinese New Year which this year fell entirely in the first quarter while in 2010 the holiday slowdown was spread between the first two quarters.
Truck-comp service continues to support highway conversions in our Domestic Intermodal world which was up 1% compared to a strong 2010.
Our Streamline subsidiary's door-to-door product grew 17% with nearly all of that growth coming off the highway.
So let me wrap up with a look at what's ahead for the rest of 2011.
Although Global Insight's forecast has softened a bit it's still a solid growth outlook and improved projections for industrial production and unemployment are actually encouraging signs for us.
This is kind of an overview of what we see happening in each of our six groups.
We'll start with Automotive which is the only group where we're experiencing significant impact from the recent disaster in Japan.
There's still a lot of uncertainty as to the full impact on the auto industry but our current take is that the second quarter is going to bear the brunt of the disruption with overall upside potential in the second half as managers work hard to fill the market void.
While we anticipate that this will slow growth in our Automotive segment in the second quarter we still expect strong growth in the second half as the industry recovery continues and sales ramp up.
In Industrial Products the market have been -- the markets that have been the strongest during the first quarter especially those that are tied to energy demand and the recovering auto industry should stay strong as the year progresses.
Unfortunately housing and construction continue to lag but we're cautiously optimistic given the recent report of stronger-than-expected housing starts in March.
While one month doesn't make a trend we're hoping to see at least the start of the recovery in housing and construction as we move towards the end of the year.
Chemicals is off to a good start for the year and most of the strength should continue driven by energy demand and a stronger economy although we do expect to see fertilizer shipments slow a bit following kind of a more normal seasonal pattern.
Strengthening industrial production along with growing export demand should be good news for our coal franchise especially with the SPRB stockpiles recently estimated to be slightly below normal.
We'll also continue to see benefit from those Wisconsin utility.
The biggest gains in Ag are expected to be in whole grain exports as demand for U.S.
wheat remains strong and feed grains have solid potential against a relatively low second quarter comp.
And last but not least import volumes that drive our International Intermodal business should grow as consumer demand improves as predicted and our excellent service should continue to support highway conversions and Domestic Intermodal.
On balance with the first quarter behind us most of the markets are shaping up as we pretty much expected.
The diversity of our business mix continues to serve us well.
And with our relative fuel efficiency higher fuel prices should further strengthen our competitive advantage as long as they don't tank the economy.
Across all six groups a strong value proposition remains the foundation of our business development efforts positioning us to deliver both the economy plus volume gains and improved pricing that we discussed last November to drive overall revenue growth.
With that I'll turn it over to Lance.
Thanks Jack and good afternoon.
Safety is our number one focus.
In the first quarter of 2011 we achieved the best ever quarterly performance in employee safety.
The continued penetration of the peer-to-peer safety process that we call Total Safety Culture or TSC and enhanced training drove the improvement.
This had a positive impact on our bottom line and Rob will touch on it in a few minutes.
In terms of customer safety or derailments we improved 10% to a record first quarter reportable incident rate.
Derailment costs decreased over 20% with the lower incident rate and a decline in the severity of those incidents.
Investments in infrastructure technology and training created a safer operating environment.
And despite increases in rail and highway traffic during the quarter we also achieved a best ever quarterly mark in public safety.
Our crossing accident rate declined 13% in the quarter versus 2010.
We continue to focus on risk reduction including closing grade crossings and helping local communities address risky driver behavior.
Safety service and productivity are codependent goals that reinforce one another which is reflected in our service results.
For the first quarter we handled a nice step-up in volume while maintaining strong service levels.
Jack showed you the impact of the February winter storms.
We really felt that in the Chicago area which is our largest gateway and affects about 25% of our rail traffic.
Heavy snowfall and high winds impacted our operations and our employees and caused some loss in network velocity.
Our team did a tremendous job responding to the challenge.
We deployed surge resources and quickly adjusted service plans.
By applying the principles of the unified plan and utilizing available resources we absorbed the 5% volume growth and overcame the weather challenges while maintaining solid customer service.
Both volume and service performance quickly rebounded in March to a run rate of 174 000 weekly carloadings and 88 service delivery index.
Handling more throughput at a consistent high level of service and efficiency drives productivity and creates capacity.
We leveraged the growth in train sizes as you'll see on the next chart.
Looking at our Manifest business which accounts for over 1/3 of our network capacity or activity excuse me and is predominantly our Industrial Products Chemical and some of the Ag business we experienced solid carload growth this quarter.
We were able to leverage volume handling 11% more carloads with just 5% more starts.
We achieved similar results in unit grain trains absorbing 9% more volume with 6% more starts.
This is a product of a collaborative effort working with shippers and receivers to develop and fully utilize our grain network.
We also drove train length productivity in our coal and Intermodal shipments.
We achieved these gains through plan design equipment management and by working with our customers and interchange partners.
Further deployment of distributed power contributed to our success in train size growth and I expect further upside in the premium bulk and manifest products.
As volumes increase we use the unified planned process to run more trains across our network to destination without an intermediate stop.
This is captured in the metric at the bottom right which shows the number of times each day trains stop to pick up or set out cars.
Fewer work events means more throughput at higher levels of service.
As volumes grow we continue to put surplus resources back to work while maintaining our surge capabilities.
We recalled around 700 TE&amp;Y employees so far in 2011 which brings furloughs down to around 820.
We continue to hire TE&amp;Y employees to offset projected attrition as well as for volume growth this year.
Recall it takes about six months to fully train and deploy a new hire.
Despite having several hundred more new hires in the training pipeline and more employees working on capital projects our workforce productivity improved around 1% from 5.31 million to 5.34 million gross ton-miles per employee.
Adjusting for those two factors our productivity improved about 2.5%.
While we have placed around 220 locomotives and thousands of freight cars back into service this quarter we still have roughly 800 locomotives and 26 000 freight cars available to meet growing demand.
My team has also touched or rotated around 200 of the stored locomotives to be available on demand for weather disruption and demand spikes.
Even though the equipment we returned to service was older and generally less reliable than the fleet average productivity is measured by GTMs per horsepower day and freight car utilization matched last year's excellent performance.
Another vital part of our improvement plans are the capital investments that we're making to provide great service for our customers while handling more of their business.
For 2011 our capital plan totals around $3.2 billion.
More than half of that is replacement spending to harden the infrastructure making the network safe and resilient.
Spending for service growth and productivity will total close to $1.1 billion.
Capacity commercial facilities and equipment are the primary drivers.
Major projects include additional double track on the Sunset Corridor the Blair cutoff project on the east-west main line siding extensions Intermodal terminal expansion.
We're also acquiring 100 new road locomotives close to 5 000 new containers some additional covered hoppers and new AutoFlex auto racks which were designed and are being built by UP car shop.
The bulk of these acquisitions are designed to meet expected business growth.
In addition to our investments for growth and efficiency we plan to spend around $250 million on positive train control this year.
All in all our projected capital spend is up significantly compared to 2010.
We're investing for safety growth service and productivity gains.
The endgame is delivering the full potential of the great UP franchise translated into these deliverables: World-class safety results as we build Total Safety Culture leveraging growth to the bottom line with network productivity growing the value proposition for our customers and positioning for growth as we provide excellent service.
So going forward the key for the operating team is agility and delivering on UP's value proposition.
We are meeting and will be prepared to continue to meet customer expectations regardless of the economic circumstances.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob to discuss the financials.
Thanks Lance and good afternoon.
Before we go through Union Pacific's record first quarter earnings I'd like to make everyone aware that the 2010 fact book will be available tomorrow morning on the UP website under the Investors tab.
So with that let's move on to our financials.
Slide 21 summarizes our first quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 13% to a record first quarter $4.5 billion on the strength of core pricing gains and volume growth.
Operating expense totaled $3.4 billion increasing 13% or $376 million compared to the first quarter of 2010.
If you consider that higher diesel fuel prices added $200 million of expense you can see we demonstrated solid operating leverage.
Also you'll recall that our 2010 operating expenses included a one-time payment of $45 million to CSXI as part of the restructuring transactions.
Operating income totaled $1.1 billion a 15% increase and a first quarter record.
Other income totaled $15 million in the first quarter $14 million higher year-over-year mainly due to early debt redemption costs incurred in 2010.
Quarterly interest expense declined 9% versus the first quarter of 2010 to $141 million driven by lower average debt levels.
First quarter income tax expense increased to $372 million.
Higher pretax earnings drove the increase but was somewhat offset by a lower tax rate which was driven by state income tax rate changes.
Net income totaled $639 million a first quarter best and a 24% increase versus 2010.
Earnings per share increased 28% to $1.29 per share as the outstanding share balance declined 3% versus 2010 reflecting our share repurchase activities.
Turning to our top line.
We achieved 13% freight revenue growth to a first quarter record of $4.2 billion.
This slide provides a walk-across of the first quarter growth drivers.
First quarter volume was up 5%.
Unlike the last few quarters business mix did not have much of an impact year-over-year.
Our solid price improvement of 4.5% was in line with our first quarter expectations.
Fuel surcharge revenue added another 3.5%.
And as you'll recall there's a two-month lag in our fuel surcharge recovery mechanism.
So although our fuel surcharge revenue increased we did not recover the full amount of the increased fuel cost due to the continued rise in fuel prices throughout the quarter.
We view this as a timing issue and I'll talk a little bit more about that in a minute.
Core pricing gains in the first quarter of 4.5% were driven by solid demand our value proposition and RCAF fuel escalators.
As we've stated before we have roughly $750 million worth of business in our legacy portfolio to compete for and reprice this year but the majority of these contracts don't come up for bid until the fourth quarter.
If you look at our incremental margin for the first quarter after adjusting for higher fuel prices and the 2010 CSXI payments revenues were up nearly 10% while costs grew only 7%.
That relationship equates to an incremental margin of about 45%.
As we noted in the fourth quarter we continue to take the necessary steps to prepare for the future.
We believe that our proactive initiatives implemented today will result in improved margins as we approach peak seasons.
Turning now to the expense side.
First quarter compensation and benefits totaled $1.2 billion up 10% from 2010.
Breaking down the year-over-year change roughly half of the increased expense can be attributed to inflationary pressures that we discussed with you back in January: health and welfare unemployment taxes wage increases and pension costs.
The other half was driven by volume growth.
Our workforce levels increased 5% in the quarter compared to 2010.
Half of the increase was driven by more TE&amp;Y employees in the training pipeline and more individuals working on capital projects.
The other half was driven by our 5% volume growth partially offset by productivity.
We will likely see similar patterns in the next quarter or so but we are optimistic about the future and plan to stay ahead of the game.
As you would expect training costs were higher in the quarter as new employees were brought on to prepare for the expected 2011 attrition and volume growth.
Conductor and engineer training costs increased $16 million year-over-year.
First quarter fuel expense totaled $826 million by far our second largest expense item in the quarter.
The average diesel fuel price which increased 33% year-over-year was a primary driver of the quarterly change.
In fact the $2.88 per gallon of diesel fuel paid in the first quarter was our third highest quarterly fuel price on record.
I'd like to make two key points about the fuel price impact.
First the math alone of higher fuel prices inflates the operating ratio and secondly the lag impact of our fuel surcharge mechanism also creates an additional headwind on both our operating ratio and our earnings.
When we combine these two factors the end result was a 2.4 point increase in our operating ratio and an $0.08 reduction in earnings per share compared to the first quarter of 2010.
The impact is a bit larger than the $0.05 impact that I talked about in March as fuel prices continued to climb throughout the month.
Fuel expense was also higher as a result of a 5% increase in gross ton-miles.
Slide 26 summarizes first quarter expense for two additional categories.
Purchased Services &amp; Material expense increased 10% or $43 million to $475 million.
Similar to the two previous quarters the biggest driver of the increase was greater use of contract services associated with our higher volumes.
This includes transportation expenses incurred by our subsidiaries.
Crew lodging and transportation costs also increased and locomotive maintenance costs were up year-over-year as we returned stored units to active service.
When you add it all up about 1/3 of the increased spending in this line is associated with expected volumes in the second half of the year reflecting the amount of time it takes to position our assets for full deployment.
Depreciation expense increased 8% or $28 million to $395 million which is in line with the previous guidance that we gave.
Increased capital spending and higher depreciation associated with hauling more gross ton-miles drove the increase.
Looking at the second quarter we expect depreciation expense to increase around 9% or so compared to 2010.
Slide 27 summarizes first quarter expenses for the remaining two categories.
First quarter equipment and other rent expense totaled $302 million up 4%.
The biggest contributor was container lease expense which was higher in the quarter as we increased our container fleet.
Car hire expense also increased driven by volume growth.
Lower freight car lease expense partially offset these increases.
Other expense came in at $188 million down $58 million or 24% from 2010.
Cost pressures including volume-related expenses and increased operating taxes drove expenses up in the first quarter but spending was lower than expected across the board allowing us to beat the $225 million target that we discussed with you in January.
One of the bigger drivers of improvement in this cost line was lower personal  injury expense again reflecting positive experience from our continued safety gains.
And we've already talked about the $45 million CSXI payment that was made in the first quarter of 2010.
Going forward we expect continued safety performance.
We believe there will be less positive impact from personal injury actuarial studies.
All in we still expect the other expense category to average around $225 million per quarter for the rest of the year but we remain committed in our efforts to offset cost pressures.
As in the past with so many ins and outs in this line it's not unusual to see quarterly fluctuations.
Bringing both the revenue and expense sides together UP's record first quarter 2011 operating ratio illustrates the substantial improvements in profitability that we achieved over the last several years.
We improved our operating ratio to 74.7% in 2011.
The ongoing efforts of project OR solid volume growth continued operating efficiency and core pricing gains all contributed to this record mark.
These improvements more than offset the net headwind created by higher fuel prices and the 2010 CSXI payments.
Together those two items negatively impacted our operating ratio by 1.3 points compared to 2010 masking a 1.7 point improvement in our base business.
Union Pacific's record profitability in the first quarter of 2011 also drove record free cash flow after dividends.
Growth in cash from operations more than offset increased capital spending and higher dividend payments.
In fact cash dividends paid in the first quarter of 2011 were up 38% from 2010 levels.
Bonus depreciation contributed positively to cash flows in both years.
Union Pacific's balance sheet continues to be in good shape consistent with the goal of maintaining an investment-grade credit rating.
At the end of the first quarter the adjusted debt-to-capital ratio was 41.7% just slightly down from year-end 2010 as earnings added to our equity balance.
We've continued to generate strong cash flow to return to our shareholders in the form of share repurchases.
During the first quarter we bought back 2.6 million shares totaling $248 million.
We've recently renewed our share repurchase authority for a new repurchase program of up to 40 million additional shares by March 31 2014.
The new program went into effect April 1.
Dividend growth and opportunistic share repurchases continue to be key components of our balanced approach to cash allocation for the long-term benefit of our shareholders.
Looking ahead we see continued opportunity to grow and improve our profitability.
As Jack discussed we are optimistic about the prospects for solid growth and pricing gains in 2011 particularly in the second half of the year.
Of course this assumes that the economy continues to cooperate.
We remain committed to achieving real pricing gains in 2011 driven by the increased value of Union Pacific's service strong market demand and the added benefit of competing for and repricing our legacy business later in the year.
As we look to the second half of the year the combination of stronger revenue growth our ongoing productivity initiatives and current resource investments should produce improved incremental margins and drive higher returns.
In January of this year we targeted a record operating ratio for the full year of 2011.
The oil price at that time was around $85 a barrel.
At today's price of $110 a barrel this will be a challenge but we remain committed to achieving improvement from last year's 70.6% record operating ratio.
Even with high fuel prices and the pressure it puts on our margins we still believe 2011 will be another record-setting year for earnings allowing us to reward our shareholders with greater returns.
With that let me turn it back to Jim.
Thanks Rob.
Obviously there's still some uncertainties for the balance of the year such as the impact of higher fuel prices and the overall economy.
So far the economy continues to gradually improve and we expect to see this reflected in stronger business volumes as we move back into peak season later in the year.
We feel good about our prospects for strong performance in this environment and we're taking the necessary steps to ensure that UP will be ready to successfully meet this demand.
When you look at it our plan for 2011 remains very straightforward.
We'll continue to deliver on our customer commitments by running a fluid and efficient railroad focus on safety and high levels of customer service.
We'll leverage our volume opportunities to drive productivity in financial results and we'll continue to make the critical capital investments that support our long-term strategy for profitable growth.
Taken together these efforts will translate into increased value for customers and stronger cash flows and financial returns for our shareholders.
With that let's open it up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Justin Yagerman with Deutsche Bank.
I wanted to get a sense -- we've heard from the two West Coast dominant truckload carriers that the western half of the United States was weaker in the first quarter and we saw that in your Intermodal volumes.
And I was wondering if you guys had any real explanation for what was going on on a relative basis.
Is that just seasonal? And I guess when you think about how that's proceeded are you starting to see increased either flows or expectation that those volumes are going to begin picking up as we move through the second quarter? Justin I think first of all you're correct and that there is always a seasonal downturn or falloff after the end of the year and as you get into the first quarter.
And we saw that.
Volume is picking up.
It's getting stronger.
I always look at the number of containers we have in storage.
And even with some incrementals that we bought last year we only have about 4 500 left in storage and that's in April.
So we're already starting to ramp up towards what looks like to be with continued economic growth a fairly decent peak season for us.
So we're very comfortable with our plan.
We're seeing that it play itself out and we're not seeing anything at this point in time that's concerning us.
Okay.
Rob you did a good job getting at the incremental margin question but I guess given the thought is that it'll be difficult to see that OR improvement year-over-year this year because of fuel obviously coming in at 0% margin.
That's optical but does it create a difficulty in reaching the longer-term OR goals that you guys have of getting to 65% to 67% by 2015? Or in terms of the underlying momentum of the business is there anything that changes there if we're in a heightened fuel environment? Justin I'll take that one.
No I don't see that as a challenge on our long-term goal.
In fact if you think about what it does on Highway cost I think it helps you in terms when you think about your volume story that's out here and our team is doing a good job in terms of fuel recovery.
But I don't see it as -- sure I'd like to have $85 barrel of fuel.
My concern is not so much in the ratio but what it may do to consumer demand long term but we're not backing off our commitment.
All right great.
And I guess last one and I'll turn it over to someone else.
Just curious on the capital spend decent size program this year.
How much of that is eligible for bonus depreciation and how much was potentially pulled forward because of that 100% depreciation? Rob? Justin I mean we will benefit from the continuation of the bonus depreciation but we really didn't change our capital planning so much around the result of that bonus depreciation.
So we will benefit from it but it didn't cause us to pull ahead.
And just a reminder remember the guidance that we've previously given going forward is that our capital spending should be -- we expect in the 17% to 18% of revenue as we move forward over the next couple of years.
But Justin keep in mind that is only if we see our returns continuing to improve.
We're making a bet here long term and when you look at some of our investments here -- I feel good about what's happening with our profitability our return on invested capital.
But I'll tell you if we start to see that move the other way you're going to see capital go back the other way.
I mean the math is pretty straightforward.
Appreciate the time.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Tom Wadewitz with JPMorgan.
I wanted to see if we could start off with one on the core price.
The 4.5% is really a good number.
It is a little bit lower than what you saw from most of the last year.
I wonder if you can give a sense is that kind of the run rate that we should assume until you get into fourth quarter when you get a bigger legacy impact? Jack do you want to take that one? Yes Tom it really kind of depends on the marketplace.
It's certainly not going to get any worse than that.
And if the market continues to improve and we start to see an even faster ramp-up in things like peak season we could do a little better than that.
You understand clearly that our big legacy push isn't really going to impact us much this year.
It'll do more to support 2012 than it does 2011.
But we feel very good about our pricing plan.
And if you look at the legacy impact at the end of this year -- I think Rob you gave us a number about the kind of the total revenue that you're repricing and then what happens in 2012.
Is it a similar amount in 2012? And I guess I think the timing in 2012 is relatively early in the year so maybe just some comments on that as well.
No you're going to see the benefit of the $750 million reflect itself in 2012 and then we have a number of year-end 12/31 contracts that will impact 2012 providing we're successful in renegotiating in keeping that business on our railroad.
And the 2012 number is not as big -- the 2012 actual in the year legacy contract is not as big as what we have with the combination of the year-end here and then the 2012 itself.
I don't have the specific number here with me right at the moment.
Tom keep in mind that legacy isn't the only place that we are able to get price.
It's really across the board with all six of our business groups.
A big part of that's the value proposition.
I would tell you right now and again let's assume the economy continues on kind of slow growth as we've said.
You think about what's happening maybe on the trucking side I think the pricing opportunities are pretty darn good for the rest of the year.
Do you have a sense Jack of how much smaller it is in the $750 million? Is it like $500 million or $300 million or you just don't have the numbers in front? Yes I don't have the numbers in front of me.
We'll get back to you as we're talking.
Okay.
Thanks.
That's good.
I appreciate it.
Thanks for the time.
Our next question is from Chris Ceraso with Credit Suisse.
Thank you.
This may be kind of a simple question but it did seem that several of your expense categories grew at a faster rate than your carload growth.
Is this something that you expect to persist throughout the year? Rob? As I pointed out there's some inflationary pressures like for example on the comp line and half of that 10% growth in the quarter was what I would call and did call inflationary pressures.
T the other half was related to volume.
Similar on the Purchased Services where we experienced bringing out locomotives from storage bringing out other equipment et cetera so those were unusual pressures in that sense.
And I would expect that some of those pressures particularly in the comp line will continue throughout the year.
The component that's related to volume as we've always said headcount as it relates to volume will grow with volume so we'd like to see volume continue to grow.
We expect headcount then to continue to grow as a result but not at a one-for-one basis because it's offset by productivity.
But the other half the inflationary pressures are likely to stick with us throughout the balance of the year.
Chris but you had a pretty big jump in I would call nonproductive costs that we've got in our first quarter getting ready for the volume in the third and fourth quarter.
In fact I think Rob in his numbers said about $35 million or so plus or minus is associated with training and pulling some locomotives out.
So as you think about that we're going to lever that very very nicely in the second half of the year as those people come out of training get the locomotives ready to go you start to see that business Rob.
There'll be very nice leverage second half.
Just one more point on another category.
Purchased Services and others which was up 10% I would expect as we get into the second quarter that the run rate year-over-year would look more like a 5% than a 10%.
That 10% this year was as much a result of a more difficult comp from last year in the first quarter.
And I wouldn't expect that that would continue in the second quarter and beyond.
Okay.
So just to follow up just to clarify the compensation inflation for the full year are you saying that it'll be five points above and beyond volume growth? Roughly around 5%.
5% all in? Of the inflationary part.
Okay.
And then some additionally on top of that for volume.
Correct.
But you should have some productivity on the volume side.
You're not going to see one for one with volume and wage increases.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Matt Troy with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP</strong> Thanks.
I wanted to ask about coal specifically given the strong pull of export coal off the East Coast.
I was wondering if you're seeing any inquiry from East Coast consumers as to an increased desire to import PRB coal further in our direction.
Secondarily I wanted to get a sense of what stockpiles look like in your area.
Jack? Well now the phone is kind of ringing off the wall actually in terms of inquiries both on Eastern coal and actually we're getting some fairly decent calls on export which is not our strong suit but we do have access to Missouri River -- or the Mississippi River terminals and some West Coast.
So we're actually seeing some interest there.
Both of those are good for us.
We don't really have any confirmed deals but we're certainly talking to a lot of different customers who are interested.
And hopefully as time plays out and if the export markets stay strong we'll see more of that draw into the East.
LLLP</strong> And the stockpile question? The stockpiles right now the last recorded information we had said that SPRB stockpiles are around 55.6 days.
Normal would be around 56.4.
So just slightly below what would be normal would set us up quite nicely here for the summer burn season that should be coming up.
LLLP</strong> Excellent.
My second question would be just related to export coal more directly.
We've seen the announcement now for facilities potentially looking to get permitted or expanded in the Pacific Northwest and Canada.
Is your sense that that's what we're going to see? Is there more to come? And what's your sense on timing? It seems as if if all goes well it's about a two-year three-year thing but you also have the EPA pushback and the environmental pushback.
I'm just wondering is more to come? And what's your sense on timing? Thank you.
There's a lot of places that are looking for an opportunity.
So I'm not sure it's completely done yet in terms of what the potential site locations are.
Some of them to us seem a little bit more extreme than others but there is certainly a lot of interest in developing new port facilities and the capability to handle some coal exports at existing ports including not only West Coast and Canada but also down in Mexico as well.
So that's the first issue.
The second issue in terms of timing we were actually hopeful to see some activity towards the end of this year and the beginning of 2012.
The one that we're probably most interested in is the one up in Longview Washington with the Australian mining firm.
I think it's called Amber or Ambre.
And they sounded good to go except for the EPA issues and that has posed a delay.
But we're hopeful that we can still see some activity there by early 2012.
Really depends on what happens with the government and the EPA.
LLLP</strong> Thanks.
And just as a quick reminder you're not outlaying  any capital for these projects materially so to speak? This is all paid for by the mines and the importers themselves correct? Yes.
The only expenditure we would consider is the rail infrastructure to ensure that we could get the product there.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Let me go back to Tom Wadewitz's earlier question where he asked about what the book of business or book of revenue is in our legacy for 2012.
It's $300 million.
So again we haven't given precise timing of when that is.
I think it's pretty much throughout the year but $300 million is the answer to Tom's earlier question.
Our next question is from Bill Greene with Morgan Stanley.
I'm curious just on your fuel surcharge coverage.
We used to talk about this being around I think 85%.
Is that still where it is? And if you had repriced this legacy how much would that change it? I think it would've materially affected how these results would've looked in today but maybe you could just sort of weigh in a little bit on that.
Rob? Yes.
The amount of revenue that we have covered with some sort of fuel mechanism and remember we have like 75 different fuel mechanisms out there is in the low 90s.
It's not a precise number that we track as readily as you're asking but it's in that low 90s.
So we've moved it up from that 85 mark.
And how much of the negative impact in fuel this quarter was because you didn't have a fuel surcharge on the rest of that 10%? I don't have that number but it'd be a little bit.
Bill the biggest -- the prime driver is the timing.
It is about that two-month timing.
It's at $0.08 per share.
Okay fine.
And then Jim can I just ask you about your thoughts on being more aggressive with buybacks? You have what I think is fair to say in at least in near history with UP a relatively under-levered balance sheet now? How do you think about becoming more aggressive in that regard? Well I think our first job here is generate the cash that puts a position in the company in terms of growth.
So again we'll look at long-term capital growth.
We'll look at our dividend policy in terms of where we're going and return cash to shareholders.
I don't see us levering up significantly in terms of borrowing to buy back stock.
But you see from our first quarter cash flow we had a very good quarter in fact a record quarter and that really puts us in a very good position to continue to reward our shareholders.
Okay.
Thanks for the time.
Our next question is from Scott Flower with Macquarie.
Just curious given some of the shifts over the last several years in natural gas pricing versus oil pricing I'm wondering if that changes your intermediate-term perspective on the growth rates in your Chemical franchise and how you may think about that longer term.
Jack? As we looked at it Scott certainly having the lower natural gas prices is a benefit to U.S.
producers North American producers so that's a real plus for us.
I think one of the key criteria here that you have to look at is though the available capacity.
Our Chemical customers are doing quite well right now in terms of overall production.
And to significantly improve on the long term means additional facilities will have to be built which will take some time.
Okay.
But I mean net-net I mean I remember you used to think that was sort of almost a very low growth no-growth business.
You perceive probably better growth in that now? I don't know if we ever believed it was no-growth Scott but it was good growth.
Okay.
And then two other just maybe administrative questions sort of wrapping up.
What was the total amount of the fuel surcharge in the quarter? And is the tax rate that you booked in first quarter more or less what you think the run rate will be for this year? Or what would be the right run rate on the tax rate? This is Rob.
On the tax rate run rate right around 38%.
Okay.
And what was the total amount of fuel surcharge booked in the quarter? Around 150 about 155 I believe Scott.
Okay.
Thank you all.
Our next question is from Jon Langenfeld with Robert W.
Baird.
On the Intermodal side how should we think about your volume growth there relative to the market which was a bit stronger? Are there contracts shifting around or is this a function of some of the changes with the underlying Intermodal marketing company partners? Jack? Jon that's a good question.
As we looked at the Intermodal marketplace today and we look at some of where we stand we're being very disciplined in our approach to going after business and looking at the market we're staying very focused on our reinvestability threshold and looking to be opportunistic.
We're working with our IMC partners in terms of business availability.
And right now they're kind of going through bid season so there's a lot of business up for grabs that everybody is vying for.
So until we get through May and into June it's still somewhat of a moving target for us.
And I'll tell you I think you have to be careful about looking at first quarter and extrapolating that out the rest of the year particularly on the Domestic Intermodal side.
We are seeing it start to pick up but we're going to be very focused on the financial returns in that business.
But no big contract shifts one way or another that you've seen? No.
Okay.
And then on the coal side absent two or three wins here in Wisconsin should we see the rest of that book of business grow with the existing customers as we move through the year here? It sounds like with stockpile being a bit lower we may actually see that growth in the existing customer base.
Jack? If you look at the existing customer base if you assume that we have a normal summer burn and things like that we should see a nice ramp-up as we move into the summer season and see that business grow.
I mean a lot of it still depends on economic recovery though too.
When you look at it Jon there still is some discount or some reduction that's taking place because of industrial production and some of those things but we have not yet completely recovered to where we were before the economic downturn.
Sure okay.
Thanks for the color.
Our next question is from Gary Chase with Barclays Capital.
I wanted to see if I could get you to put a little more color around some of the commentary we're getting on headcount growth.
Was there a weather component here? Did you decide to pull some hiring forward as a function of some of the weather disruptions? And then secondarily should we be thinking -- because a lot of the commentary seems to suggest that you're doing this in anticipation of volume growth.
Should we be thinking that there's some risk here if that growth doesn't materialize in the second half? Well here's the math.
We're going to lose 4 000-plus employees this year through attrition.
We're going to -- right now our current hiring numbers are around that 4 500 plus or minus range.
As Lance said you need about -- when you look at TE&amp;Y and our conductors and engineers you need I think minimum six months to get them hired and trained and on the ground.
So we clearly are making a bet on the second half of the year with peak season.
Now if we move through the second quarter here and we see the economy start to falter we will pull that back.
One of the things we do we've been able to show we've been able to take advantage of is the attrition.
Attrition in the company actually peaks about May or June because the way our agreements work is you need to work x summer days to qualify for your full vacation.
So we're a little bit ahead of that right now but I think it's something that we -- you also have some higher capital spending that's out here but I don't necessarily see it as a risk.
The risk to me is not being prepared to handle the growth and provide the service and provide that value.
I think that's the real risk because we can cut back costs pretty quickly that's out here.
But I'll tell you we've got a great service proposition and we're getting great value out of it.
So you are confident you can dial back the costs and just let -- add the trade out pretty quickly? No question about it Gary.
What's the driver of the second half confidence that's just customer feedback? Well again I believe we're getting some feedback from customers in terms that you would expect kind of the normal peak.
You have your international -- I mean if you look at trends and you assume somewhat of a normal economy historically you should see peak start maybe July or so early August.
You're going to build.
You've got the fall harvest that comes into play.
You have new auto production that comes into play.
All of those things happen in the second half of the year and that's where you get your traditional peak moving up.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Christian Wetherbee with Citigroup.
Maybe just staying on the headcount side for a minute I guess based on kind of the comments you made I just want to make sure I understand that you see this progression going forward.
I guess it seems a little bit front-half weighted so maybe the year-over-year or sequential increases in headcount probably smoothed out a little bit as you progress through the rest of the year.
Is that correct way of thinking about it? Well depends on volume in terms of what happens here.
Right now my view of the rest of the year is you're going to see higher volumes in third quarter than we did the prior year.
That's not here.
And we are front-end loaded when you look at some of these costs.
The question is -- we have a lot of people in training today.
We're spending a lot of money that's not generating a dollar of revenue.
So you have to almost think of leverage in terms of the third quarter as it moves up.
But it is to some extent front-end loaded.
Okay.
And to that point particularly as it regards to training expenses so should we be thinking about when you look at the average cost per employee maybe smoothes out or comes down a little bit as you go forward as you start to get some of the leverage of these upfront training costs through the rest of the year? Yes the big jump in cost has happened.
I mean you're not going to see another spike-up in cost because we built -- we've got the plan in terms of the hiring program.
It's pretty well staffed right now.
So you're not going to see a huge jump in cost going forward.
Okay.
And then Rob just so I'm clear I know you mentioned other expenses coming in below kind of target.
Did you get a sense of what that run rate might look like for the rest of the year now as we're past the 188 you did this quarter? Yes the net is at $225 million per quarter.
That's still a number that I think is the right one to think through.
Okay.
So still stick with that number.
Yes.
Okay.
And then just finally I guess to follow up on the export coal side Jack you mentioned some opportunity maybe as early as next year for some export.
Can you give us a sense just as far as total volumes what you think you may be able to see next year if you do get the demand there? You know what overall Christian typically when you think about UP our run rate for export coal has been somewhere in the neighborhood of 1 million to 2 million tons.
I think this year we're probably going to be in the 4 million to 5 million ton range and I think that the potential is there if all these environmental -- there's a lot of what ifs with the environmental stuff but we could pick up another 2 million 3 million tons something like that for next year.
Okay great.
That's very helpful.
Thanks for your time guys.
Our next question comes from Ed Wolfe with Wolfe Trahan.
Jim I'm sorry to drive this headcount thing in I'm just a little confused.
I thought you had said attrition is 4 000.
You're hiring 4 500.
So kind of by the end of the year it's a net 500.
Did I hear that right? That's the way the math would work.
But you have to keep thinking about how the volume numbers and the timing of when the attrition hits us out here.
So I don't think you're going to see -- we're ahead of the game right now again in terms of when you look at the full complement of hiring.
So I do think you've got your biggest spread right now but it's again a function of volume going forward here.
So to me though again Ed the key is handling that volume that comes at us.
And I'm pretty confident right now we're going to see a peak through this year.
Okay fair enough Jim.
On the Intermodal side it feels like you've now taken a couple price increases in the last six or seven months and Burlington hasn't.
And I guess my question to you is do you sense that that is changing the balance of market share or do you get a sense that pricing -- that everybody's going to start taking up pricing soon? Ed we compete every day.
We win some and we lose some.
We pay attention to our strengths in our markets that are there.
When you look at -- you guys understand the truck industry as well as anybody.
And if you assume the economy's going to start picking up and you think about the cost on energy in the highway and some of the challenges they have I think the market the pricing opportunity is pretty good for us.
But we're going to make our decisions based on what's best for the UP railroad here in our corridors and that gives us the greatest value.
I mean if we see this strategy and it feels like truck pricing should continue to tighten throughout the year certainly if it's tight now seasonally the expectation would be there's more to go on Domestic Intermodal in peak? It could be.
You look for -- our first quarter pricing Intermodal is pretty strong.
Okay.
Then last topic on the grain side.
Jack what tariffs have you put in place earlier in the year and what's the opportunity for further tariffs? Can you talk about grain pricing and if there's some mix that's impacting the way the reported yields look? Yes we're hitting some pricing for fourth quarter and April and we'll kind of sit tight and watch what happens as the markets evolve.
As with the tariff we can increase price on a 20-day notice.
So we're just kind of watching to see what the market dynamics look like at this point in time.
What were the increases at the end of fourth quarter and April? You know what I don't have the specific numbers that we have but they apply to different commodity groups.
Okay.
Thank you.
Appreciate the time.
Our next question comes from Scott Malat with Goldman Sachs.
Just one on Mexico cross-border.
Can you just talk about recent trends any expectations there and maybe the potential benefits the new terminal you'd announced for New Mexico? Thanks.
Jack? We had a solid quarter for Mexico.
I think our growth was up about 15% in the first quarter which is good.
Business trends as we look across the scope of the business in Mexico the only one of our six businesses that's not really showing much action right at the moment is coal and that's because it's a very small portion of the business and there's a bid in place as it goes right now.
So as we look across all of the rest of the businesses whether it be Ag Autos Industrial Products the Chemical business and all that we see great potential.
The Mexico economy is tending to be a little more robust than we are in the U.S.
And we continue to see near-terming or bringing business back from Asian rim into the Mexico business environment which is very supportive of our franchise then.
And we have a great working relationship with both of the Mexico railroads so we see a lot of potential there.
And Scott regarding the announcement of Strauss in fact I'll have Lance give you the operational perspective but we see that as a very very good opportunity to grow business and improve our efficiency.
Lance why don't you talk about the operational side? Yes Strauss is going to do three things for us Scott.
It's going to be an Intermodal yard that'll serve El Paso and also south-of-the-border business.
It's going to be a run-through facility that'll take some of the pressure off El Paso on our critical premium Sunset route and it's going to be an Intermodal block swapping facility that will allow us to grow outside of the LA basin both on Intermodal and premium Intermodal products.
And on the Intermodal business can you talk about partnership opportunities and how you look at working with drayage companies? Are they willing to -- it seems like a lot of them aren't willing to pick up the business because they can only get one-way routes and they can't make money on the way back.
That's what we had been hearing.
So I just wanted to understand do you have the partners in place? Is that somewhat of a hurdle to growing the Intermodal cross-border traffic? Scott I'll tag you with the perspective.
When we are down there talking to folks in New Mexico the interest is huge including the dray carriers.
So this is going to be a very nice facility that I think is very much needed at that location and I just don't see that.
I mean Jack you guys...
When we look at Scott -- and we have been spending a lot of time in Mexico on our business development focus and we see a lot of enthusiasm.
We see a lot of partners willing to work with us there as we think about it.
Of course we always -- we're a wholesaler in the Intermodal world so if some of our IMC partners that are arranging for drayage and those kinds of things for the most part but we see a lot of cooperation and potential.
All right.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Ken Hoexter with Merrill Lynch.
If I could just follow up with Lance on the -- you've used up a lot of useful locomotives and available furloughs.
Velocity has kind of held in here but terminal dwell looks like it's starting to creep up.
How much more room capacity-wise do you think is on the network? And then as that starts running up are you looking at costs on the equipment side as well to help out with that congestion aside from the employees we've already talked about? Sure Ken.
In terms of how much capacity is remaining on the network we've talked about historically being able to run fluidly.
That is with high service levels 190 000 195 000 seven-day carloads.
We've managed to muscle through 205 000 seven-day carloads historically just not at the current service levels.
We remain confident of that and we have a capacity program this year that'll continue to put us ahead of that growth curve.
In terms of network terminal dwell and other resources that are required to kind of manage the volume growth and keep dwell down we've got a hiring plan that's going to help us clearly in the first quarter.
In the south we might have had a few areas where we're a little tighter on crews than we'd like to be.
We've got graduations of our trainmen coming out in those areas as we speak.
That would show up in a little bit of dwell.
Likewise our capital investments in equipment and locomotives while locomotives aren't required because we've got plenty in storage they will help us as we're able to DPU more of our traffic.
Every single one of the locomotives we're purchasing is going to be DPU capable.
That will help us with productivity as well.
Ken keep in mind you're seeing a lot of those costs in place right now the hiring the training the pulling of locomotives out of storage getting them prepped.
I mean that was what we're talking about earlier that you're incurring these costs now that aren't generating a dollar of revenue.
That should really leverage here in the second half.
Understood.
And Jim you were talking -- or I guess maybe Rob was talking about the rates being up 4.5% but that's down sequentially from about 5.5%.
I just want to understand what you were answering before.
Is that something you anticipate will kind of decelerate until those legacy contracts come up for renewal toward the end of the year? No it's not going to decelerate.
What I was talking about you had 4.5% first quarter this year.
If you look a year ago first quarter we had 3.5%.
Now it's down from what we had shown in third and fourth quarter.
But be careful about assuming that's the trend.
I think it will not decelerate.
And depending how the demand plays out we're going to take advantage of the opportunities going forward.
Okay.
And you mentioned the $0.08 on fuel.
Did you mention any impact on weather-specific costs? No we didn't.
I mean we spent -- go ahead Rob.
Ken just remember I did previously say not on this call but in previous and it's still an accurate number that was more of an item on our revenue and it probably cost us about a point on volume in the quarter the weather did.
Great.
Appreciate the time.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Walter Spracklin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Thanks very much.
Just on and Lance if you could come back to your distributor power can you give us a sense of how much of your fleet is currently equipped with DP and how much you want to go to essentially -- and as quality there [ph] like how much longer can we see those train lengths go? Do you see them peaking at what kind of level? Okay Walter let's start with the DPU question.
We've got a fair portion a large portion of our road fleet DPU-ed.
If you look at it from the percentage of gross ton-miles that we run that are DPU-ed it's north of 60%.
We anticipate being able to grow that.
Every time we purchase a locomotive we're going to be able to grow that.
In terms of train sizes we've talked about historically that depends on the corridor.
Having said that we've got opportunity to grow train sizes in each one of the networks: premium manifest and bulk.
So it just depends on the corridor.
And we're making investments right now in our capital plan to be able to increase train sizes through this year and then through the future years.
Yes Walter I'd just tell you we still have a lot of single-track railroad out there and deciding can be what you're passing tracks can be a limiting factor on train size.
And that's what Lance is referring to.
When we look at this capital investment piece in there there's a productivity train size-wise as we get that capability in.
LLC</strong> How long and that was my next question actually on that is how long do you think out to -- what kind of time frame when your entire network would be able to be optimally set up to handle these longer trains? Are we talking one two three years? I wish.
No but go ahead Lance.
We're constantly looking for opportunities using Unified Plan and investment to improve productivity.
One of those ways is through train size.
Continuous improvement into that area is the realistic goal and what we're achieving.
I don't think we look at that and think of one perfect balance at a moment in time.
We still have a lot of opportunity long term though on this network.
I mean we put a lot of money and capital and capacity efficiency.
But to me there are opportunities at least for the foreseeable future.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So nothing's [ph] for sure.
I appreciate that.
And just one last quick question for Rob here.
The $15 million in other income you mentioned that there was a debt redemption cost in 2010 that didn't recur.
Is $15 million a good number then for us to use on a sort of go-forward basis? Yes the way we look at it the guidance that I would give on that is about $75 million to $100 million for the full year.
And it could be lumpy from quarter to quarter so I'd look at it that way.
LLC</strong> Got it okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Donald Broughton with Avondale Partners.
LLC</strong> Help me understand how you think about this.
With highway diesel now at $4.10 a gallon how are you thinking about well cars or articulated wells versus last? Does the higher price of diesel the average we're to haul at which Intermodal is becoming cheaper than over the road? And the large potential incremental volume ever gets to the level that you either change your view or dramatically expand your investment in flats and TOFC? I'm trying to think here on -- your question is on increasing the dwell cars the flat cars? LLC</strong> Yes.
Because I mean as we -- we're getting to a point at which there's just a bigger and bigger marketplace that's available to you.
Do you ever -- help me understand how you think about what you would do in changing your outlook on flats versus wells? Okay you're talking about trailers trailers versus containers.
LLC</strong> Right.
All the really good questions have already been taken.
That's okay.
That's a pretty strategic question in terms of what you look at.
We have not had a real strong program on trailers over the years.
In fact we've really pushed a lot into the double-stack containers.
But where the economics are playing right now with fuel you're going to see us start to move in that world in terms of putting products in place that are pure trailer products.
LLC</strong> When I look at the marketplace there's what there's as many truckload movements in the 500- to 600-mile length to haul as there are in the 1 000- to 1 500-mile length to haul.
It's just an ever-larger bite of the apple that you guys can make.
The question is does the price of diesel ever get to the point where you go look in order to take advantage of that opportunity we're going to make much larger investments in TOFC? I think you're there now in terms of the TOFC.
And it's not only fuel it's the other pressures on the truck side that helped drive this.
So we're going to start moving down that road.
We still have lot of opportunity on the container side though too when you look at it.
In all I'm being very intelligent about the returns and the service and the products you put in place because -- I'll tell you one thing on the Intermodal particularly on the trailers.
You put a product in you better deliver.
There are no exceptions.
It's a very time-sensitive market but you're going to see more out of us on the trailer side in the future.
LLC</strong> Fantastic.
Thank you gentlemen.
Our next question comes from Peter Nesvold with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> If I could flip to Slide 22 for just one quick minute.
If the fuel surcharge revenue the higher year-over-year 3.5% on a base of $3.8 billion roughly of revenue when I just run that math it suggests that the fuel surcharge revenue is up about $130 million $135 million year-over-year fuel costs were up about $243 million year-over-year.
You mentioned earlier you get about a 90% compliance rate on the surcharge.
It seems to suggest that fuel is more like a $0.12 hit to numbers rather than the $0.08 hit that you've cited.
And I guess I'm just trying to understand better what I'm missing.
I think you've stumped us.
Inc.</strong> Is there anything like from higher terminals the well times or from weather or anything else that happened in the quarter that might have disproportionately impacted the fuel consumption this quarter? Well consumption rate was what flat year-over-year.
Yes the rate was flat as a result of weather and other situations.
You have stumped me in terms of the math you just ran through but all I can say is that the lag is the driver of that delta between the recovery we had in the quarter and the fuel expense.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks for the time.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Jim Young for closing comments.
Well again thanks everyone for joining us this afternoon.
And as I said earlier we will be back on our normal schedule next quarter Thursday morning before the market opens.
So thanks for your patience this time and I look forward to talking with you then.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Union Pacific Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Jim Young Chairman and CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you Mr.
Young you may begin.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Union Pacific's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With me in Omaha today are Jack Koraleski Executive Vice President Marketing and Sales; Lance Fritz Executive Vice President Operation; and Rob Knight CFO.
Union Pacific achieved another strong quarter despite continued weather challenges.
We delivered an all-time quarterly earnings record of $1.59 per share a 14% increase compared to 2010.
In addition we achieved a record second quarter in operating income up 9% from last year.
Cash from operations also hit a best-ever mark for the second quarter.
The benefits of our diverse franchise really paid off this quarter.
We saw volume gains in 5 of our 6 business groups with strong growth in Ag products and chemical shipments.
As I mentioned we continue to battle massive flooding in the Midwest.
Lance will provide more details on this in few minutes.
But I just want to comment on the tremendous job our team has done to protect the majority of our network while maintaining very strong customer service level.
They really have accomplished an incredible feat.
When we look at the financial impact of the flood we estimate an earnings hit of about $0.04 a share roughly $20 million of missed coal revenue and around $14 million in flood-related operating cost.
Despite these challenges we remain focused in delivering safe efficient high-quality service that guarantees -- that generates value for our customers.
As Jack will show these efforts were recognized with record customer satisfaction results.
So with that I'll turn it over to Jack.
Thanks Jim and good morning.
Well Jim said we've been on a great streak with our customer satisfaction scores over the past several quarters.
And the second quarter of 2011 is no exception.
Satisfaction for the quarter came in at 92 up 3 points from last year and topping our previous best set earlier this year.
Along the way we also set a new best-ever monthly mark receiving a score of 93 from our customers in April.
That strong value proposition and a diverse business mix produced volume growth of 3% in the second quarter as the overall economy continued its slow improvement.
We saw real strength in our Ag products and Chemical businesses helping us to offset some of the impacts of flooding which primarily affected our energy volumes.
Core price improved 4.5% with each of the groups posting gains.
Those price gains along with increased fuel surcharge revenue and a couple of points positive mix from the strong growth in Ag and Chemical combined to produce a 13% increase in average revenue per car.
The stronger volume and the improved average revenue per car growth rate revenue up 16% to a near record $4.6 billion.
So let's take a look at the drivers of each of those businesses.
Given the slight decline in our Intermodal volumes I figured that's probably the one you're most interested in so I thought we'd actually start there this morning.
Our Intermodal revenue increased 13% of the 14% improvement and average revenue per unit was partially offset by a 1% decline in volume.
The actual volume decline was driven by a contract loss in our International business which was down 2% overall.
Although international would have posted a small gain without that loss the market slowed significantly as the quarter progressed.
In fact the most recent data showed softer import volumes in both May and June with West Coast ports seeing year-over-year decline while the East edged up a bit.
That's a pretty sharp contrast to the solid growth numbers posted in the first 4 months.
Uncertain signals on consumer demand has led to a more cautious inventory replenishment strategy with inventories remaining at historically low levels relative to sales even as the retailers posted so much stronger sales year-over-year.
Domestic Intermodal was flat versus last year's second quarter volume.
The renegotiation of the last domestic Intermodal legacy contracts gave us the flexibility to take a totally new approach to the market.
Early in 2011 we introduced our mutual commitment program where we're asking beneficial owners to commit off-peak volume in return for guaranteed price and box commitments during peak season.
We wanted to ensure we got it right from the get-go so our implementation wasn't quite as fast as what we had planned.
This program represents a significant change for those customers so we had to work really hard to build their understanding and also to assure them of our commitment to this new approach.
Second factor for the flat volume was our continued focus on moving our Domestic Intermodal rates up to re-investable levels.
Core price improvement in our Domestic Intermodal business was significantly higher than our 4.5% overall average for the quarter.
This price improvement combined with the incremental fuel surcharge we now collect helped drive average revenue per unit up 16% for our -- Domestic Intermodal business so we're making some pretty good progress here.
Overall we're offering a strong value proposition in this market and we anticipate we'll see stronger growth as demand picks up here in the second half.
Agricultural products volume grew 11% which combined with a 9% improvement in average revenue per car to drive revenue growth of 22%.
Export whole grain shipments increased 58% with strong worldwide demand driving a 59% increase in wheat exports and feed grain exports climbing 50% from 2010s relatively soft volumes.
New business and increased production drove a 28% increase in import beer volumes and export opportunities and solid margins for producers boosted ethanol shipments 9% while meals and oil volume were also up 9%.
Our Automotive revenue climbed 14% as volume grew 4% and the average revenue per car increased 11%.
The pace of recovery in the auto industry slowed a little in the second quarter impacted both by the Japanese tsunami and some degree of consumer hesitancy in the face of uncertain economic signals and higher gas prices.
Despite those headwinds U.S.
vehicle sales still posted year-over-year gains.
That translated into a 4% growth in our finished vehicle shipments driven by the Detroit Three and our parts shipments increased 2%.
Chemical volume increased 11% which combined with a 7% improvement in average revenue per car drove revenue up 19%.
Increased crude oil volume was again the primary driver of growth in our Petroleum Product segment which increased 31% with asphalt and lubricants also continuing to show strength.
With export potash shipments up 36% and strong seasonal demand for all nutrients fertilizer grew 22% and our industrial chemicals volume grew 6% reflecting a somewhat stronger economy.
Despite the impact of the Mississippi River flooding early in the quarter and the Midwest flooding toward the end energy posted a 14% increase in revenue the result of an 11% improvement in average revenue per car and a 2% growth in volume.
We're estimating that the floods reduced volume by about 14 000 cars or about 3 percentage points of volume growth during the quarter.
Our Southern Powder River Basin tonnage increased 3% again driven by new business to the Wisconsin utility.
Colorado Utah which is competing in the Eastern market for both Eastern and SPRB coal and natural gas saw tonnage decline 4%.
This segment did see a boost from an improved international market with export volume to River terminals and West Coast ports up 700 000 tons.
We often talk about the diversity of our business mix as being a franchise strength of Union Pacific.
Nowhere is that more evident than in our Industrial Products business in the second quarter where volumes grew 4% even with no improvement in construction related markets.
The combination of volume growth and an 11% improvement in average revenue per car drove revenue up 16%.
Metallic mineral shipments increased 106% as our new iron ore unit train business from Utah to California for export to China ramped up.
Energy demand and increased horizontal drilling continues to drive demand for frac sand barites and bentonite resulting in a 34% growth in our nonmetallic mineral car loadings.
Energy-related demand along with recovering auto industry is also boosting fuel and ferrous scrap shipments which were up 5%.
Highway conversions drove our 12% growth in paperboard and in construction our lumber posted a small gain but cement and rock both declined for the quarter.
We already talked about Intermodal so let me wrap up here with a look at what's ahead for the rest in 2011.
The economy sent some mixed signals in the second quarter but the general consensus is for stronger growth in the second half of the year and we actually share that view.
While flood conditions continue unless the situation worsens unexpectedly the volume impact should be pretty minimal for us.
Here are some of the specific growth opportunities that we see for each of the 6 businesses.
Our Ag products business faces a tough comp against last year's whole grain and meals volumes but ethanol growth should continue and we expect to launch our new plant-to-rail service where we'll be moving both DDGS for transload and the containers for exports.
Food and refrigerated shipments should also continue to grow.
Auto sales are forecasted to strengthen especially in the fourth quarter and the markets will get a boost from the continued recovery of the Japanese manufacturers.
Along those lines Toyota has told us that they're going to be back to 100% in North America by September so that's some good news for us.
Chemicals led our growth in the first half and that solid performance should continue with shale development and seasonal fertilizer demand expected to lead the way.
Energy is going to continue to benefit from the new Wisconsin Utility business as well as the new coal-fired facility near Waco that started shipments earlier this month.
Increased export interest is an encouraging trend especially for our Colorado Utah business where output should increase as the mine that had been undergoing a longwall move is now returning back to full production.
And the record heat that we're seeing together with the potential to make up some of the tons [ph] we missed due to the second quarter floodings should all be positives for us here in the second half.
While housing and construction activity remain a question mark energy-related demand and the ramp up of our iron ore export move should lead for growth in Industrial Products.
And in the Intermodal despite recent softening on the international side we still anticipate a peak season which should drive stronger Intermodal volume.
The expectation is this year's peak will be somewhat compressed compared to last year when volumes were ramping up late in the second quarter.
So overall we've got a strong value proposition -- it's underpinned by excellent service positions us to take advantage of these and other opportunities across our diverse portfolio.
Expected growth in volume should continue with anticipated price gains to drive continued record revenue growth through the end of this year.
And with that I'm going to turn it over to Lance.
Thanks Jack and good morning.
I'll start with our safety performance which is the foundation of our operations.
In the second quarter of 2011 we achieved another best-ever quarterly performance in employee safety.
The continued maturation of our total safety culture and risk identification in mitigation processes along with enhanced training drove the improvement.
Our safety culture is especially important today as we've ramped up our hiring of new employees to cover both attrition and volume increases.
We're also recalling employees back from furloughed status who haven't worked for us in more than 2 years.
In terms of customer safety or derailments we improved 10% to a record second quarter reportable incident rate.
Investments in infrastructure technology and training all helped reduce the risk in our workplace.
And despite increases in rail and highway traffic during the quarter our crossing accident rate declined 14% versus 2010.
We're turning to a long-term improvement trend.
We continue to help communities address risky driver behavior and to close grade crossings.
Overall we're making great progress towards our ultimate goal of 0 incidents.
Now before reviewing our network performance I want to spend a minute recapping how we're managing the flood here in the Midwest.
A record amount of snow melt from the Rockies and the Northern Plains combined with June rainfall in the Midwest that averaged 200% to 300% above normal has generated massive flooding that we're currently seeing.
Despite the widespread flooding our team has done a tremendous job keeping tracks in service and managing around the disruptions.
We successfully preserved our critical central quarter from North Platte through Omaha and into Iowa by raising tracks up to 5 feet increasing drainage and building protected berm to prevent washouts.
We are working with many federal state and local agencies to keep this most critical rail line open.
Unfortunately we've lost our direct route between Omaha and Kansas City and 1 of 2 routes between Kansas City and St.
Louis.
We are managing through these outages by employing surge resources and alternative routes while helping customers with their contingency plans.
In spite of the flooding service levels and network performance for the second quarter remained relatively strong demonstrating our resiliency and recoverability in the face of major weather disruptions.
Our ability to handle both growing volumes and weather challenges is reflected on this chart.
By applying the principles of the unified plan and utilizing our surge resources we have sustained the network's service reliability and efficiency.
As you can see our network velocity remains strong averaging 26.1 miles per hour for the second quarter.
However we did see about a 1 mile per hour decline in June from May due to additional maintenance curfews flood-related outages and congestion related to the flood.
We continue to monitor network efficiency closely given all the route and schedule changes we've made due to the track outages.
But the cost maintained excellent service as we battled the flood resulted in mix productivity as indicated on the next slide.
Gross ton miles per employee declined about 1% from 5.36 million to 5.32 million gross ton miles per employee.
The addition of nearly 1 000 new hires in the training pipeline and increase in employees working on capital projects and the surge resources used to combat the flood completely offset our productivity initiatives in the quarter.
We made this trade off to keep the network fluid to keep trains moving efficiently and to build additional capacity for future growth.
In the second half of 2011 we expect to return to the long-term trend of increasing GTMs per employee as we continue to implement productivity initiatives.
Shown here are train sizes for our Intermodal and Manifest businesses which improved again in the second quarter helping to offset some of the headwinds I mentioned earlier.
Other productivity good news items in the quarter included leveraging first crew starts versus carload growth in our scheduled networks and improved fuel efficiency.
Our service performance demonstrates the effectiveness of our resource and service planning as the growing value proposition that Union Pacific provides to our customers.
Our service scorecard on Slide 18 illustrates UP's customer value proposition.
As carloads grew 3% our Service Delivery Index remained strong and improved from first quarter results.
We absorbed the increased workload while maintaining solid customer service.
Diving down a level the local operating teams are building the fundamental elements of great service.
One of those fundamental elements is captured by industry spot and poll which set an all-time best quarterly record at 95%.
And consistent with Jack's discussion on record customer satisfaction our local customer satisfaction is also at an all-time best.
This survey solicits feedback from customers the operating team interacts with daily at the shipping and receiving docks where the accuracy and reliability of our industry crews is critical.
So while the floods are certainly having an impact we are largely overcoming the worst of it to provide customers with reliable valuable service.
The endgame is delivering the full potential of UP's franchise translated into these deliverables.
First world-class safety results as we build a Total Safety Culture.
Minimizing flood impacts through proactive measures and contingency planning leveraging growth to the bottom line with network productivity and growing the value proposition for our customers and positioning for growth as we provide excellent service.
So going forward the key for the operating team is agility in delivering on UP's value proposition.
We'll continue to work to meet customer expectations while enhancing shareholder returns regardless of the circumstances.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob for the financial review.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
Let's start by summarizing our second quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 16% to a record $4.9 billion on the strength of core pricing gains fuel surcharge recoveries and volume growth.
Operating expense totaled $3.5 billion increasing 19% or $563 million compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Higher fuel prices accounted for roughly half of this increase.
Operating income totaled $1.4 billion a 9% increase and a second quarter record for us.
Other income totaled $26 million in the second quarter $7 million higher compared to last year.
Quarterly interest expense declined 3% versus second quarter 2010 to $148 million driven by lower average debt levels.
Second quarter income tax expense increased to $485 million higher pretax earnings drove this increase.
Net income totaled $785 million increasing 10% compared to 2010.
The outstanding share balance declined 3% versus last year reflecting our share repurchase activities.
These results drove an all-time quarterly record in the earnings-per-share of $1.59 a 14% increase versus last year.
Turning now to our top line.
We achieved 16% freight revenue growth to a second quarter record of $4.6 billion.
This slide provides a walk across of the second quarter growth drivers.
Second quarter car loadings were up 3%.
We also saw a positive mix impact driven by strong growth and higher average revenue per car moves.
We saw price improvement of 4.5% in the second quarter.
Core pricing gains were driven by solid demand our value proposition and RCAF fuel escalators.
As we have stated before the majority of business in our legacy portfolio that we will compete for and reprice this year does not come up for renewal until mid-fourth quarter of this year.
Fuel surcharge revenue added 6% to the top line reflecting higher fuel prices in the second quarter compared to 2010.
If you look at our incremental margin for the second quarter after adjusting for higher fuel prices and the flood impact revenues were up 10.5% while costs grew 9.5%.
That relationship equates to an incremental margin of about 36%.
As we noted in April we've taken the necessary steps to prepare for future volume growth in the second half of this year.
That being said we believe 36% incremental margins will be the low mark for the year.
As you know our long-term guidance includes an operating ratio of 65% to 67% by 2015.
In order to achieve this we are focusing on incremental margins in the neighborhood of about 50% over the next several years.
Of course this depends upon volume level and fuel prices.
Now let's turn to expenses.
Slide 24 summarizes our year-over-year increases in operating expense by category.
As I mentioned higher fuel prices contributed to roughly half of the $563 million increase in expense.
Other more normalized year-over-year increases include: Inflationary cost and volume-related expenses and as we saw increases in casualty expense TE&amp;Y training costs and flood-related expenses.
With that let's spend a minute and walk through each of these categories.
Second quarter fuel expense totaled $904 million increasing $296 million compared to last year.
The average diesel fuel price which increased 44% year-over-year was the biggest driver of this quarterly change.
Two factors drove the increase.
First the average barrel price of $103 rose 32% compared to last year.
And secondly conversion spread which cover the cost to convert crude oil to diesel fuel more than doubled to an average of $27 per barrel in the second quarter compared to last year.
Although our fuel surcharge mechanisms enabled us to recover the majority of the higher fuel prices the resulting increase in expense and revenue had a negative impact on our operating ratio.
The effect was a 2-point increase in our operating ratio and $0.02 reduction in our earnings per share compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Fuel expense was also higher as a result of a 5% increase in gross ton miles.
A portion of these expenses were offset by improvements in our consumption rate.
Our fuel conservation efforts produced a 2% savings in the quarter.
Slide 26 summarizes second quarter expenses for compensation and benefits.
Breaking down the year-over-year change about half of the increase in expense can be attributed to inflationary pressures that we have discussed with you and we did it back in April health and welfare unemployment taxes wage increases and pension costs.
The remainder was driven by volume growth higher training costs and expenses associated with flood-related activities.
Productivity was somewhat masked by additional resources needed for rerouting and curfews caused by the flooding as Lance just described.
Training costs were up $26 million in the quarter as new employees were hired for expected second half 2011 attrition and volume growth.
Slide 27 takes a closer look at the change in our workforce levels.
Workforce levels increased 6% in the second quarter compared to 2010.
Higher volumes in the quarter drove 2.5% increase.
We had more employees in the training pipeline during the quarter driving another 2.5% increase.
In addition there were more individuals working on capital projects including Positive Train Control which added another 1%.
That's a net add of about 2 400 employees.
Looking at our full year projections we would expect our workforce to be up around 1 500 employees of course this is dependent upon volumes.
Walking through the numbers.
We have expected attrition of roughly 4 000 employees this year.
We will hire around 4 500 new employees and we'll continue to recall our furloughed employees which should add another 1 000 or so to our workforce by yearend.
That being said these projections are dependent upon volume assumptions and we will adjust accordingly.
Now turning to our other expense categories.
Other expenses came in at $196 million.
We beat our guidance of $225 million primarily due to lower-than-expected personal injury expense reflecting favorable results from our actuarial study.
Our continued safety gains drove this positive experience.
Versus 2010 the other expense category was up $74 million.
Although lower than expected personal injury and other casualty-related costs were still higher in the quarter compared to last year.
Going forward we still expect continued safety gains.
Other cost pressures including increased operating taxes also drove expenses up in the quarter versus 2010.
Barring any unusual items we expect the other expense category to end up around $215 million to $225 million a quarter for the balance of the year.
We remain committed in our efforts to offset cost pressures.
Purchased services and materials expense increased 9% or $44 million to $516 million.
The biggest driver of the increase was greater use of contract services associated with higher volumes and flood prevention efforts.
Crew lodging and transportation costs also increased with the growth in volume levels.
Locomotive and freight car maintenance costs were also up year-over-year as we returned stored assets to active service not only to cover volume growth but also as additional resources to help mitigate the impact of rerouting caused by the flooding.
In total we incurred $14 million of flood-related expenses $10 million is reflected in the purchased services line and the remaining $4 million hit our labor expense line.
Slide 29 summarizes second quarter expenses for the remaining 2 categories.
Depreciation expense increased 9% or $33 million to $401 million which is in line with the previous guidance that we gave.
Increased capital spending and higher depreciation associated with hauling more gross ton miles drove this increase.
Looking at the second half of 2011 we expect depreciation expense to increase at about the same rate on a year-over-year basis that we saw in the first half of this year.
Second quarter equipment and other rent expense totaled $283 million flat with last year.
Increases in other rental expenses were offset by lower freight car and locomotive lease expenses.
Bringing both the revenue and expense sides together Union Pacific's operating ratio illustrate the substantial improvements in profitability that we achieved over the last several years.
On a reported basis our operating ratio was 71.3% for the second quarter of 2011.
Ongoing productivity efforts core pricing gains and volume growth all contributed to this mark.
Higher fuel prices continue to put pressure on our operating ratio creating a 2-point headwind in the second quarter and for the first half of this year compared to 2010.
If fuel prices stay at current levels and with 6 months already behind us it will be difficult to make full year improvement versus last year's record of 70.6%.
However if you adjust for fuel prices we fully expect to see real improvement in this year's core operating ratio versus last year's record mark.
Union Pacific's profitability in the second quarter of 2011 also drove record free cash flow after dividends growth in cash from operations more than offset increased capital spending and higher dividend payments.
Cash dividends paid in the year-to-date period of 2011 were up 38% from 2010's level.
Similar to the first quarter bonus depreciation contributed positively to cash flows in both years.
Union Pacific's balance sheet continues to be in excellent shape consistent with the goal of maintaining an investment-grade credit rating.
At the end of the second quarter the adjusted debt-to-cap ratio was 40.9%.
There's some timing in this entry year number and we'd expect that 2011 year end ratio to be slightly higher.
Our performance continues to generate strong cash flow and we've returned that to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
In May we increased our second quarter dividend by 25%.
This was a significant step toward achieving our targeted payout ratio of 30%.
During the second quarter we bought back 3.6 million shares totaling $360 million.
These shares were purchased under our new authorization program of 40 million shares.
Dividend growth and opportunistic share repurchases continue to be key components of our balanced approach to cash allocation for the long-term benefit of our shareholders.
Looking ahead we see continued opportunities to grow and improve our profitability.
As Jack discussed we're focusing on continued volume growth in the second half of 2011.
Of course this assumes that the economy cooperates.
We remain committed to achieving real pricing gains in 2011 driven by the increased value of our service solid market demand and the added benefit of competing for and repricing our legacy business later this year.
As we look at the second half of the year the combination of stronger revenue growth our ongoing productivity efforts and current resource investments should produce record earnings allowing us to reward our shareholders with even greater returns.
With that I'd turn it back to Jim.
Thanks Rob.
With the first half behind us we delivered record financials.
Looking into the second half we expect stronger performance despite some economic uncertainties and ongoing flood challenges.
Union Pacific's strong value proposition our diverse franchise and record service performance all position us to deliver volume gain price and increased productivity over the balance of the year.
These efforts will translate into increased value for our customers and stronger cash flows and financial returns for our shareholders.
So with that let's open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Justin Yagerman of Deutsche Bank.
I was curious -- your outlook for the second half of the year sounded fairly solid from a volume standpoint despite the challenges that have been facing the economy.
Can you give us a sense of what your customers are telling you especially on the Intermodal side? Curious what your thoughts are from a peak season standpoint? And maybe if you could go into a little bit of what happened on the international customer side and how that will play out this peak season for you guys? Sure.
Overall our customer base is expecting that we still are going to have a peak season.
And overall they're saying it's probably going to be more compressed than what we've normally seen start a little later more in the August timeframe instead of July.
And actually it could be higher in intensity given the shorter duration of it.
I think combination of higher fuel prices as we got into the second quarter here and a lot of uncertainty about what's going on with the debt ceiling and what that impact that'll have on the economy on taxes and things like that has resulted in consumers kind of pulling in a bit.
And I think basically a lot of retailers are going to wait and see that resolution before we start shipping before the holiday season.
So we're not -- we're kind of staying with what our customers are saying which is it's going to be more compressed.
It's going to be stronger in intensity and we're prepared for that.
We feel good about that.
In terms of the international contract Justin we're not going to really get into details of that.
It was not surprising for us.
It is obviously disappointing; you always hate to lose some business.
But we're good and we're moving on.
Hey Justin.
I'd tell you.
When you think about the second half there's probably 4 things when you're saying what's the difference second half versus first just as Jack said.
You will have a fall harvest and even though you've got some massive flooding out here.
It's pretty minor in terms of the harvest.
And right now when you look at rain and heat we should have pretty good harvest.
Our coal business should be stronger second half versus first year.
Obviously the big part of the flood's behind us.
But if you look at the heating days and you all should be experiencing the weather we think we've got some real potential on growth there.
As Jack said we do expect a peak season.
Christmas will come.
It maybe a little bit tighter that's out here.
But again that is a potential upside.
And another one that I think gets missed is auto production should be stronger not only new model year coming in but you have the Japan impact from first -- second quarter that we should say it's still a bit stronger so I think if you look at the last 5 6 years we've always had stronger second half versus first.
The only difference was when 2008 and the recession hit.
So we -- I'm pretty confident you're going to see stronger volumes through second half.
Thanks Jim.
And I guess for Rob you've spoken earlier this year to the fact that you thought first quarter core pricing was going to be the trough for the year.
This obviously came in in-line with where first quarter was.
Curious from an outlook standpoint if you still have confidence that the second half should be higher from a core pricing standpoint and what gives you that confidence as you look out? Yes Justin.
This is Jim.
Our pricing is that it was very good in the quarter.
And I want you to think about this here.
Our areas that we have had the biggest upside from legacy in this business which is coal and Intermodal had this lowest growth.
So when you look at it we had some negative mix in our business in second quarter.
And I'm very confident in our pricing going forward.
We're adding a lot of value.
We're going to -- when you look at -- again this will be a punch when we look at demand the second half.
If demand gets stronger than what we expect we'll see higher pricing.
But I feel good about our pricing plan.
Our next question is from the line of Jon Langenfeld Robert W.
Baird.
On the Intermodal -- Domestic Intermodal side.
Can you talk through -- you talked about the strategy of getting full year commitments from the shippers.
How much of it is that versus -- we're simply raising our rates to a more market prices and therefore you have some shippers that have sought other alternatives whether be in or whether back to the trough because the rates were unsustainably low from many years.
John that's always really hard to discern which is which because they kind of go hand and glove.
The mutual commitment program actually has price increases associated with it as well.
So it's a change.
It's something very different than anything we've ever done before.
A lot of customers are testing our commitment and I resolve to follow through with that.
I would guess -- that affects probably 65% of my Domestic Intermodal business.
I think that was probably a somewhat bigger factor than the pricing.
And ultimately is this something you get through 1 cycle here 1 season and you show the commitment on the back-end and then they're comfortable with it.
And by the time you get into 2012 it should be more normalized growth relative to the market on the domestic side? Yes that's my fondest hope.
Jon as we think about it getting through this first year is critical.
Last year we disappointed customers.
We didn't have enough boxes.
They're really watching us very carefully in terms of when we make the commitment for the boxes will they actually be there.
Lance and his team are delivering on that.
We're going to be there without a doubt.
And when they see that we really can do what we're promising and the commitment we're making I think 2012 will be a much better opportunity.
We'll be more in line with the market.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Hoexter with Merrill Lynch.
If I could just dig into the -- that shift on the Intermodal.
Maybe Jack can you just kind of roll that out a little bit more.
What are you doing to smooth the demand by the pricing shifts? Can you kind of just go over that a little bit deeper.
Sure Ken.
What we're asking customers -- the beneficial cargo owners to do is to make a commitment for off-peak volume.
And whatever they are willing to commit to us in the off-peak period we will make a commitment to them to protect in terms of box availability up to 110% of that volume during peak.
So the more they commit to us during the off-peak the greater they'll have a commitment of a fixed box availability for them during the peak season.
And...
So it's a capacity guarantee not -- is the price built into that? Yes there is a price built into that and the price is protected up to the 110%.
If they go over the 110% then it starts to change.
Our next question is from the line of Bill Greene with Morgan Stanley.
When we think about the key pillars or real pieces [ph] we had pricing volume productivity and now here in 2011 obviously we had the flooding challenges and what not.
But there's obviously questions at the macro level on the volume growth rate.
And the cost inflation is starting to kick up.
So you think it's fair to sort of say that the opportunity from those buckets is more diminished and now it's really kind of hinges on pricing from here on out? Well Bill I don't think so.
You've got to -- obviously the economy is still relatively weak.
So again when we went into the year we said slow growth.
And that's pretty much what we're seeing.
We're actually getting a little bit different in the second quarter than we expected.
But you will level -- we will leverage growth going forward here.
So I'm not quite certain what your question is.
Again sure I'd like to have a hot economy that's out here but we will see very good leverage second half.
The pricing stories there and in fact I think again if the economy picks up strong you've got upside with the value proposition.
In the productivity side we obviously are resourced for more volume right now.
When you look at the second quarter results it should be our low point this second quarter in terms of efficiency in terms of the amount of resources we have at second quarter.
But I would tell you this if the volume doesn't materialize we will respond.
Keep in mind we're going to lose 4 000 employees this year in terms of attrition.
And as we showed in the last couple of years you get a downturn in the economy here.
We can take some cost off it.
All 3 of them are going to be necessary for us to get to our long-term commitment on the operating ratio.
Yes.
So there's a bit of a timing mismatch here in terms of the resources or in the volumes weren't there.
But assuming that that's all right then you feel pretty good about your productivity.
Absolutely Bill.
And again it's difficult to see the economy going forward here today.
You do have issues.
And then -- we'd asked about the question about how our customers are feeling.
I mean there is an uncertainty whether it's customers or employees out here when they read in the media that because of issues in D.C.
we're going to have a meltdown in this country.
And my concern is that people stop spending.
That's out here.
We're not seeing that yet.
And I do believe again we'll see volume growth the second half of the year.
But there's probably more uncertainty right now.
There's no question.
There's more uncertainty right now in the economy today than when we came in at the start of the year.
That's fair.
Just one clarification on pricing.
Once we're through the legacy repricing how will the contracts work? What's the average age where we think of we can touch this percent of the business each year on pricing once we're sort of through all that? Yes.
Bill overall we have probably about 40% to 45% of our business tied up in multiyear contracts.
So some portion of that will come up every year because obviously those are staggered over different time periods.
The remaining 55% to 60% of our business is either in tariff or in one-year deals.
And that pricing comes up on an ongoing basis.
So you guys are always asking us the question how much of our business is locked-in -- regardless of when you ask that question it's usually about 70%.
And those deals are coming up either the one-year deals the tariff deals or the renegotiation of contract rates as we go through the year.
And are they staggered in a way where they're heavy in the single quarter or it's just normal throughout the year? Probably just because of historical practice many of them kind of expire and renew at the end of the year.
But over time that's kind of been changing.
And it really is dependent upon the business the customers' views.
In a lot of cases if you look at for instance the Intermodal world where the commitments are really made in the May June timeframe that's kind of shifted away from year-end contract renegotiations.
So it's evolving over time.
Our next question is coming from the line of Tom Wadewitz of JPMorgan.
Let's see.
I'll start with a question on the broader coal topic.
I'm just trying to figure out how to look at coal volumes in second half.
It seems like you've got a number of moving parts.
When do you think that the flooding impact will abate? And we'll see a more normal run rate just in terms of being able to run the railroad and handle the coal? And then how would you anticipate that what would appear to be a pretty material decline in stockpiles how do think that affects your potential? Does that mean you can grow coal in fourth quarter 5%? Or -- I'm just trying to get a sense of how to model because it's tricky given the kind of various weather effects.
Okay Lance why don't you take the comment on operations.
Sure.
Yes Tom as we're looking forward on the floods we could be fortunate and start returning to a normal railroad sometime in early August or a more pessimistic view could be late August and into September.
It's really very dependent on what happens with rain event in this basin that's draining into Missouri River.
But right now I would say on balance we'll probably be returning to a normal railroad sometime in August.
Okay Lance.
Tom the only caveat here though we do have the network more stable.
I mean there are 2 pieces of the flood it's when you've got it and you've got your lines out and we're not moving anything.
Lance and his team have done a great job to where it's stable.
That means we still have out-of-route moves that will impact your velocity.
But right now it's pretty stable.
If you look at our coal loadings for the last several days we're starting to see some pickup here.
So I think operationally again being stable.
We can handle the volume if it's there.
Jack you want to comment on the market? Yes Tom.
I think in the second quarter I would have been up 5% without the floods anyway.
So to say that we'll be at 5% in the second half it looks to me 5% is a conservative number.
I actually think we can do better than that.
Okay.
Great.
That's helpful.
And then the follow-up question.
When we look at 2012 I think there's a recognition that you've got this big chunk of legacy business $750 million in fourth quarter this year and then $300 million next year so very large potential impact from legacy.
And the different scenarios you can model you can say while you typically would step it all up at once and get a large impact or I think there've been cases where you said "Well the customer doesn't want to take the step-up all at once and so we'll ramp it over a couple of years." And obviously that makes a material difference on how you model the legacy impact.
So can you provide any framework for what's kind of a more likely outcome on that legacy book? Do you get a lot of it at once? Or is it kind of more natural to get that step-up over a couple of years? Tom at the end of the day here there are some cases where it might be stepped up.
But even in those cases there was a substantial increase in year one.
I mean some of these contracts are so far off of market and basic economics that you can't afford to walk in without a pretty big increase.
So 2012 I think has very good potential for us.
And the issue of whether it's walked up is really minimal.
Our next question is coming from the line of Walter Spracklin of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> So the first question is essentially on the pricing side.
You've always talked about real pricing gains in excess of inflation and one of your competitors obviously came out with a third-party report saying that they were looking at real inflation trending at 4.6%.
How do you look at that? When you look at your own business when we listen to you saying inflation plus should we wrap our head around inflation of 4.5%? Or -- I had in the back of my mind something lower but perhaps you can weigh in on your thoughts there.
Rob you want to take that? Yes when we look at that at least here in the midterm Walter we're looking at more in the 3.5% kind of range for all inflation.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
Okay and just a clarification you mentioned a stronger back half but obviously and you also mentioned you're always stronger in the back half.
Do you mean that you're going to do better in the back half compared to what -- that improvement year-over-year that you've done on a seasonal basis in past? I'm not certain...
LLC</strong> Just to clarify there.
You've always had a better back half.
Saying that you're going to have a better back half I'm just wondering is it going to be better than normal if you're to look at a seasonal through the year? Or is it just yes we expected to do better like we always do better? Yes part of it is we expect to do better like we always do better.
But what we've been saying is that recall what we've been doing in both the first and the second quarter is preparing for the anticipated growth in volumes in the beginning of the third quarter.
And so when we've been saying that we pretty much admit sequentially.
But year-over-year we expect to see volume growth.
We expect to see gains on most of our measures.
So it's both sequential and year-over-year.
Now Walter the only caveat that you'll run into there and I'm not -- we are always dealing with weather in this business in fact hurricane season is now starting.
We have been hit pretty hard here in the first half when you look at the weather.
And that's a wildcard for us second half.
So assuming maybe a normal timeline here and whatever that might mean I'd say there's a little bit upside there.
The real lever to me on second half is going to be what happens with the economy.
Really consumer demand will be the big or the main factor.
LLC</strong> Could that be offset at all by some push quarter [ph] volumes? Or where those volumes that you lost lost for good in the first half? The coal clearly is there for us over the next 6 months.
It's whether the whole chain -- you've got a couple of different drivers of demand here.
You've got what's happening with stockpiles as we've seen from the flood.
So there should be some potential there.
The heating season right now is when you look at what's going on with weather that should be a positive.
It's really a question whether the whole logistics chain can handle it.
But we clearly will see more coal volumes second half than we had first half.
No question in my mind.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citigroup.
Maybe one for Rob on headcount.
You mentioned that you should expect I think in the neighborhood of about 1 500 year-over-year employee growth.
When you think about the attrition do you see that more -- it seems like that's more back half weighted.
Do you think you'll start to see some of that benefit in the third quarter? Or does it stretch out a little bit to fourth quarter? Just trying to get some sense of the sequential run rate of that employee count going forward.
Yes a couple of points I wanted to make there is as you know we were up about 2 400 in the second quarter.
And the point is again depending on volumes we expect that to come down to only being up call it 1 500 or so by the time the year ends -- finishes out.
We have attrition throughout the year.
There's probably a slight increase in the attrition rate in the third and fourth quarters from the first half.
But we see attrition throughout the year.
And we are still believing at this point that by the time the full year wraps up that we'll have around 4 000 folks to train.
Okay.
So that is basically balanced would be your view in third and fourth quarter depending obviously on the total volumes? Yes.
Okay that's helpful.
And then follow-up on the Intermodal the commitment from your customers.
I guess Jack when you think about peak season being a little bit compressed here I guess do you feel like some customers are maybe playing a little bit of chicken depending on how they feel about the peak season and whether or not they want to provide a commitment? And I guess if the peak season turns out to be a little bit less than expected does that mean that maybe you push off another year or so the full implementation or getting through this process? I know you commented on that a little bit earlier but just your thoughts around that.
If we have a compressed peak with kind of a higher more intense center that will work quite well for us.
And we'll prove to our customers that we will stand by those commitments deliver the boxes and they'll be protected.
And I think that sets the stage well for us.
If peak is a little softer than that I think they'll still see our performance and I still think they'll see the first year of this program as being a plus.
And we'll be fine going forward.
Chris I think one of the things we want to be careful on is coming out of a quarter here where our volume is flat.
When you think long-term Intermodal there's no question on my mind that Intermodal offers us the highest growth rate in the future.
We are going to have some aberrations.
We're doing some things in the market that's new to us.
But the value propositions there we see customers today that are managing their inventory.
I mean the whole rail industry when you look at Intermodal's providing great service that changes customers' mindset and how they think about inventories and may push it tighter.
But we're backing it up with our investments.
I really do see the Intermodal -- really all of our businesses have growth opportunity but Intermodal has the highest potential for us.
Our next question is coming from the line of Scott Malat of Goldman Sachs.
I think I was a little surprised by was just the fuel consumption rate improvement just given the flooding.
Was that affected by the flooding? And then what can you expect out of fuel efficiency going forward? Lance? Yes absolutely.
Not surprising to us Scott.
There's a number of underlying initiatives that are driving that fuel efficiency.
We've got Fuel Masters Program which gets the engineers engaged in managing their trains so that they consume less fuel.
Our training tools we're using the technology of our simulators to help engineers understand the perfect run so that they can manage the train for fuel consumption purposes.
As we add new locomotives that automatically improves sea rate as we more deeply penetrate DPU that's a sea rate improvement.
So the go-forward look is that those continued programs plus new ones that we're implementing like top-of-rail treatments are going to continue to drive improved sea rate.
Did the flooding have an impact this quarter so the run rate's even better than this? Flooding would have some impact.
When we're putting trains on reroutes that might have an impact.
But I would say largely speaking you set aside the fact that the flood is impacting dwell and delay which is deleterious to sea rate I bet that's rounding.
Okay thanks.
And then the other thing I was looking for is just on petroleum products the 31% growth.
Can you talk about that a little bit? What are you seeing out there in terms of opportunities for moving oil? Jack? Last year Scott we moved about $10 million of petroleum products overall.
We'll probably quadruple that amount this year in terms of moving from the Bakken down to St.
James and elsewhere.
We're seeing just a lot of interest overall.
One of the unique things that rail gives to customers is the opportunity to go to various places and to play to the extent they can -- the market advantages for themselves.
So we see a lot of interest in that.
The infrastructure is being built-out by developers.
We're focusing exclusively on our own rail infrastructure to support it.
And everything that we see even as pipelines develop tells us there's going to be a continued opportunity for rail in this marketplace going forward for a long time.
And then you said that they're ramping up can you talk about the capacity what they have ramped up to this year? I don't have a clear picture of entirely all that is in terms of all the things that they've done.
But new facilities certainly are on the development side at this point in time.
So there's additional capacity coming onstream that we can handle more and more business.
And now we're looking not only at the Bakken but at the Eagle Ford and some of the other shale developments that are taking place.
That's helpful.
Scott I said $10 million that's 10 000 moves.
And it was 4 000 moves 16 000 is what we're ramping up to.
But I do think actually it will be closer to $40 million compared to the $10 million also.
Our next question is from the line of John Larkin with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Over the last few months we've seen a couple of cases where the Eastern railroads particularly Norfolk Southern has been using the strategy of overhauling locomotives at close to the end of their useful life as an alternative to buying new ones.
And that seems to be a way to save somewhere on the order of $1 million a copy.
Have you done that? Are you doing that? Are you looking into it? Is that a viable alternative for Union Pacific? Yes I'll let Lance handle that.
But we've had a strategy for some time in terms of our overhaul project here in terms of trying to get to one overall versus 2 on a cycle.
But go ahead Lance.
Yes that's exactly right.
Jim is exactly right.
For some time and as we look forward part of our locomotive strategy -- asset strategy overall is to overhaul locomotives.
Our game plan is to try to make that overhaul happen once in the full lifetime of our use of the locomotive.
And we use some fairly sophisticated statistical modeling and maintenance modeling to figure that out.
But we're overhauling locomotives this year as part of our normal strategy.
We did it in previous years and we'll do it in the future years as well.
The key which you have to think about through here John is with fuel at $3.40 a gallon if you start looking at a locomotive that's pushing that 15-year age limit you do an overhaul but you better make certain you understand fuel efficiency one and emissions two and reliability three going forward.
So all that comes into the equation there.
But we've been doing this for a long time.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And then I was intrigued by Jack's comment that you recently started up an iron ore exporting unit train it sounded like.
Could you give us a little more color that? And then does that have any growth opportunities embedded in it? And are there other bulk materials that perhaps could be exported as well that you perhaps could play a role in handling? Sure.
The iron ore move it originates in Utah.
We take it to Richmond California where it's loaded on the vessels for delivery to Asia to China.
And it's a growing opportunity.
I mean there are lots of opportunities out there to move iron ore and any steel-related products over to China at this point in time.
Probably one of the bigger hurdles for us is port capacity kind of like the export coal situation as well.
But we're continuing to work with customers and exploring ports not only domestically within the U.S.
but also in Mexico because the demand is growing for us.
And then so that's kind of on the steel side.
Our DDGS our port-to-rail facility at Yuma California it's scheduled to start in September.
We hope we'll bring that online.
I think we're through all of our permitting and got all of the things done that we need to do.
So starting in September we'll start moving unit trains of DDGS to Yuma California.
We'll bring boxes.
We will either intercept boxes on the way to the port or actually just bring boxes out of the port -- containers and stuff them and then take them back for delivery from there.
So a lot of export opportunities actually overall.
Our next question is coming from the line of Chris Ceraso of Credit Suisse Group.
I have one follow-up question on the previous one about headcount.
If I'm understanding you right are we going to have a net decline in the number of heads in the second half relative to the first half to get to that plus 1 500 for the year.
Chris this is Rob.
What we're saying is that year-over-year the gap will be narrower than it was in second quarter and the big driver of that by the way is what happened last year.
If you recall last year basically in the first half we were doing -- had very few people in the training pipeline.
And in the back half of last year that number ramped up.
Chris keep in mind that also as Rob said it's a function of volume.
Okay.
And then you talked about the incremental margin was 36%.
If you strip out fuel and the flood effect in the second quarter longer term you target is in the 50s.
Is it fair to assume then in the second half of this year let's say fuel goes sideways that we can be in the 40s? Chris it's Rob.
Yes that's possible.
Again there are a lot of factors in there.
But you're right.
If fuel goes sideways that's a plus.
And as I pointed out we would expect that that 36% will be the low mark for the year.
So a lot of moving parts there.
But we certainly expect to improve upon that.
Yes you will see improved margins second half.
And just one quick housekeeping what was the core price x the RCAF adjustment? The RCAF -- this is Rob.
The RCAF fuel component in the 4.5 was roughly 1%.
Our next question is from the line of Scott Group of Wolfe Trahan.
Just real quick Rob can you quantify the actuarial gain in the quarter? Personal injury was about well little over $20 million which as I pointed out was lower.
Substantially lower than last year's second quarter actuarial number which is so again the complete story on that great safety performance is going to continue.
We are real proud of what we've accomplished.
But year-over-year that expense line was up because last year's second quarter accrual adjustment was substantially higher.
Okay that's helpful.
Just at a higher level fuel was lower today than it was last quarter but the comments on margins are a bit more cautious.
I'm just trying to understand that is that really just the weather impact? Or is this cost inflation more than you originally thought? Is it maybe changes in your assumptions on volume or pricing? Just any color there would be helpful and just what's driving the more cautious commentary on margins.
Scott are you talking about second half expectations or...
Well I guess last quarter the commentary was we'd see full year margin improvement and now it's margin improvement x fuel.
So on the operating ratio? Yes.
Yes Scott it really is just the math I mean if you look at the impact of fuel even if you're recovering most of it and we're not at a point where we're recovering all of it in the marketplace by the way but even if you are doing a substantially higher job of recovering the rising fuel price in the marketplace just the math on your operating ratio is a headwind.
And the first half of the year that headwind was about 2 points.
So to your points even if fuel stays sideways but still high that will put a headwind on our overall operating ratio improvement.
I think that now from where we were at last quarter our expectations now is fuel is going to be higher than what we maybe had assumed a quarter ago.
But it's anybody's guess with the volatility.
Okay that's helpful.
And just the last question is on Intermodal.
I understand that the contract loss but if I look at your volumes they're flattish.
Your western competitor's up 10.
I'm guessing there's more than just a contract loss driving that spread.
Any additional color you can give would be great on why you are seeing kind of flattish Intermodal volumes particularly on the domestic side given the strength we're seeing from J.B.
Hunt and Hub.
Yes well again Scott as I explained there's actually 2 components to that.
The first is our push to get pricing back up to reinvestable levels in the second.
And I think what's probably a somewhat bigger factor is our new mutual commitment program that we're asking all beneficial cargo owners to commit to volume levels during the off-peak season in order for us to offer them and protect them service and pricing levels in the peak season.
And that's a change.
That's a fairly significant change from anything they've seen from Union Pacific before.
And for some of them I think they were more comfortable taking an alternative that they were familiar with and waiting to see just how that played itself out.
Scott we need to let this play a cycle which is this year to see how this will work for us.
Our next question is from the line of Matt Troy of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP</strong> I wanted to return to the topic of peak shipping season.
It does look like you data [ph] coming across multiple modes.
It's coming in a little bit light.
We're hearing the same thing from everyone everyone is crossing their fingers and hoping that there's a delay in dramatic peak.
I'm just wondering one since it seems to be fairly broad based could you provide any color? Are we talking about any pocket of retail or low-end [ph] technologies? Is it localized to a particular part of the economy? And secondly what are your customers telling you about inventory levels? I mean are they at where they need to be on the Intermodal side of the Intermodal feeds such that we could go through back to school actually without that pickup? Matt it's pretty hard.
If you just look at the overall sales to the inventory ratios right now they are as low as they've been.
I mean they are at 30-year lows and have stayed there consistently.
And so there is not a lot of in -- and our customers will tell us.
They are not building inventories right at the moment.
They are being cautious.
They are kind of waiting to see what's going to unfold here with the economy.
But certainly when you look at the inventory levels that retailers are holding and as I've said earlier even compared to the fact that their sales were up a bit there's not much room in the supply chain.
If there is going to be a Christmas season if there's going to a back-to-school kind of movement effort they're going to have to increase shipments.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And second question given that we're kind of on the doorstep here of the legacy pricing story practically actually playing out I was wondering strategically from a negotiating perspective have you been conditioning these customers to expect these dramatic price increases.
Do they know they're coming? Just if you could provide some just perspective around how you're dealing with these customers and what their reaction has been given the fact that they face substantial price increases in the coming quarters and years? Matt we have worked very hard with our customers to help them understand what's happening in the market what's happened with our legacy pricing.
There's no surprises in terms of these deals.
Now what we try to reinforce though also is the value proposition which is one great service; and two substantial investment going forward.
Many of our customers are -- listen I haven't met a customer that's ever going to say thanks for the price increase.
But I will tell you this.
At the [ph] level when you talk with them we get through that and they want to immediately get into where you're putting capacity for my growth in the future because they see the value propositions.
So there are no surprises there.
There are tough negotiations.
But we have to change some of these legacy deals or we won't hold the business I mean the spreads are so far off of anything that's reasonable on return on invested capital we would walk.
And in some cases we have.
LLLP</strong> And just to follow-on it may be difficult or you may not want to answer.
But if you analyze that $2 billion in revenues that is so far disconnected from market is there a percentage that is vulnerable to diversion i.e.
that might be able to move to Burlington or over-the-road carriage? There is a significant piece of it that -- that has competitive options in terms of where it will go.
Our next question is from the line of Garrett Chase with Barclays Capital.
I know that you've gotten a lot of questions on the Intermodal shipment.
Just wondering if we take a step back maybe could you explain a little bit about what you're trying to affect? I mean it sounds like maybe you're trying to just get better utilization out of the assets and if that's the case how might we expect to see that play out in terms of the financials? I mean could we see maybe a bit less pricing gain than we might normally expect but because you're getting better utilization that is going to drive the same profitability? Or how should we think about how that will play out? Jack? I think Garett when you stop and think about it it really involves a lot of different components.
One of which is we absolutely need to get to build the business up to reinvestable levels.
Number two we want to continue to invest in the service products.
I think the earlier question about as we renegotiate these legacy deals what's at risk.
The whole thing is at risk if we don't provide outstanding service.
And we have done a great job of ramping up service into the 5-year period particularly in our Intermodal world.
So that today when customers look at the opportunities when they look at our performance when they look at the number of places we can take them on our network and they see our commitment both to the box program but also in facilities and all those they know that we're serious about this and that we will stand by those commitments.
And some of them will test them but I think overall that's one of the things that is good for us.
So I think getting it up to reinvestability is a key part of the pricing side of it.
Great equipment utilization is all about our return on the investment that we're making on those boxes and the facilities and that's got to be part and parcel of it as well.
So it's going to be multifaceted and it includes all of it.
And just a tiny one for Lance.
When do you think we'll start to see the number of employees in training start to decline just the raw number? The raw number of employees in training kind of is a little bit sine wave through a year right? Right now we have almost 1 000 in the training pipeline that probably attenuates a bit as you go through the second half.
The thing that Rob had pointed out though is in terms of comparison to prior year the pipeline probably looks similar as we move forward because of attrition and volume expectations.
Does that answer your question? Okay here let me add one more thing though.
Keep in mind last year at this time we didn't have many people in training.
So it will be around fourth quarter -- third to fourth quarter that you're going to start to see the year-over-year comps are much more balanced because our training program really started to pick up.
It actually started I mean we weren't doing much training towards the latter part of the year.
So it sounds like we are more or less leveling off now.
I mean is that fair with just the normal variation? Yes absolutely.
Our next question is coming from the line of Peter Nesvold with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just a question for Rob.
When I look at the operating expenses x fuel operating expenses x fuel up 11.6% in the quarter.
Year-over-year carloads up 3.1%.
And even if I strip out the $14 million of flooding-related cost you still get the cost up 11%.
That was kind of like the first time we've seen a big divergence between the 2.
And I guess number one based on the comments that the incremental margins bottom here at 36% how soon do you anticipate that the expense line item and the carload line item converge again? Number one.
And number two you talked about holding back on hiring if the volumes don't recover.
Are there other levers that you can pull? And if you're able to quantify it that's great.
There's a lot there.
In my comments you may recall that when you make the flood and the fuel adjustment our revenues were up 10.5%-ish and expenses were up 9.5%-ish a slightly better performance on the expense side than on revenue side still not where we would like to see it in the long term.
Similar drivers in when you strip away the flood and the fuel below that you have personal injury was a big delta as we pointed out year-over-year.
As we talk we've been getting ahead in the entire first half ahead of anticipated volumes in the back half on our hiring and training we just talked about that in the pipeline of bringing on ramping up cost if you will.
And just the size of that that was roughly $30 million in the second quarter alone and you may recall in the first quarter it was about $35 million of non-productive assets as we ramp up for those volumes.
So those are some of the big drivers that account for that increase in expense that we would not anticipate seeing going forward.
So your second question is when do we see the margins start to improve and when do we start to leverage that? We'd expect to see that in the third quarter.
Again assuming the economy cooperates we're well positioned as we've discussed here today to lever that volume continue to be confident in our ability to get price going forward.
So we would expect the improvement from here on the margins and you'll -- we expect to see that.
Inc.</strong> Just to make sure I understand that because the year-over-year decline in carloads has accelerated in the first couple of weeks here of third quarter.
A lot of it is flooding.
I would anticipate and we will probably cycle through it.
Maybe some of it is macro I'm not quite sure.
But you're comfortable that the margins improved sequentially 2Q to 3Q even despite the fact that carloads are actually getting worse at an accelerating rate to begin the quarter.
Yes but as we discussed here this morning we do expect carloadings to pick up for all the reasons we've been discussing here.
Hey Peter now if they don't as we said earlier here with 4 000 attrition this year we can scale back the cost numbers pretty quickly.
We show that back in '08 '09 when we had a short falloff.
I'm not betting on that when you look at it.
But I will tell you we're going to keep a very close look at what has happened with our business volume.
And we do have the flexibility to cut back pretty quick.
And it's not only on the labor side.
It could be your locomotive overhaul program that you look at.
I don't think that is going to happen.
But we're prepared if this thing goes the wrong way for us to do some things pretty substantial in the cost side.
Our next question this morning is coming from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> It sounds like the risk to peak season is actually that it materializes I mean you're being cautious the truckers are being cautious.
It doesn't sound like they can grow even if they wanted to.
The retailers are holding back.
So I guess I want to make sure I understand exactly.
If we do have a compressed peak what kind of capacity do you have? And when do we need or when would those support loading -- when would those numbers start to come in to tell us that you're going to be able to handle the peak if it does come in? Anthony the bottleneck will not be the Union Pacific railroad.
Again just think about what we've talked about here.
We've got a substantial amount of costs that are built into the second quarter in terms of resources training.
We're getting 100 new locomotives in place.
We've got additional containers still to be delivered.
We are -- I hope you're right that this peak is greater than what we expect.
We are a long way from having a capacity issue on this railroad right now.
Our last question is coming from the line of David [ph] of Bernstein [ph].
It's actually Bernstein Research [ph].
A quick question on the restructuring and the Domestic Intermodal contract.
Is that having an impact on the rate? Are you guys sort of moving some of the -- what you've may be price up in the peak season and trying to smooth that across the years as well as kind of with the capacity commitments and things like that? Yes I think when you look at the program David we're making a price commitment during the off peak as well as the peak.
So obviously we aren't sending customers to give us off-peak volume but the rates are still going up.
Okay.
But I mean is it sort of pulling forward some of that later-year rate? Or is that just a general rate increase? It does pull some of it forward into the off-peak period.
Okay.
And then the second question on the International Intermodal side there's a little bit of a supply demand inbalance.
It seems to be forming in the container-shipping market.
And I guess I wanted to get your guys' perspective on the impact of that on legacy repricing.
So if their rates are going to be constrained how do you think that's going to impact your ability to price into some of the legacy business? Well David what we have done is we've set where we believe the rates need to be to recover return on invested capital.
And we look at it in somewhat of a replacement context.
And if we can't get those kind of rates again I've said that earlier we will walk from the business.
We've put a lot of investment in long term.
And again you're right.
When you look at what's happened capacity-wise in the water right now it's not very good.
But I can't let that drive our decision when we think long term and what's required for our business right now.
Now what you might see is more volatility.
Maybe the more it goes the little bit all water.
But long term I still think the value proposition is here.
And I've got to get these returns here.
It's pretty darn tough to justify the amount of capital we're putting in this business.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Jim Young for closing comments.
Well thanks for joining us this morning.
I am confident when we talk in third quarter you're going to see improved performance from what we've had at this quarter.
Again if something the economy cooperates a little bit.
So again we look forward to talking with you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Union Pacific Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Jim Young Chairman and CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you.
Mr.
Young you may begin.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Union Pacific's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With me in Omaha today are Jack Koraleski Executive Vice President Marketing and Sales; Lance Fritz Executive Vice President Operations; and Rob Knight our CFO.
The Union Pacific team delivered solid financial results across the board this quarter achieving an all-time quarterly earnings record of $1.85 per share.
That's a 19% increase compared to 2010.
We also set best-ever quarterly marks in operating revenue operating income driving record year-to-date free cash flow.
We're clearly delivering on the benefits of our diverse franchise.
Volumes increased in 4 of our 6 business groups.
The downside was weak International Intermodal and lower export grain.
Overall we're pleased with these results in light of the fragile economy and operational challenges related to the severe drought in Texas.
Although we deal with weather every day the extent and duration of the drought did impact network operations during the quarter.
Lance will provide more details on this in a few minutes.
Despite these challenges we remain focused in delivering safe efficient high-quality service that generates value for our customers and translates into improved financial return for our shareholders.
So with that I'll turn it over to Jack.
Thanks Jim and good morning.
So let's lead out this morning with a look at customer satisfaction.
We've set a new third quarter record coming in at 91.
That's up 1 point from last year and reflects a continued strong value proposition even as our operating team battled lingering Midwest flooding and the effects of the severe drought in the South during the quarter.
Our volume increased 1% with the International Intermodal peak season weighing heavily on our growth in the third quarter but interestingly enough if you excluded Intermodal our other 5 businesses grew 6% during the quarter even with the softer export grain market.
Our core price improved 4.5% with each of the 6 groups posting gains.
Those price gains combined with increased fuel surcharge revenue and some positive mix from the decline in Intermodal and growth in Carload business drove average revenue per car up 14%.
The end result was a 16% improvement in freight revenue to a best-ever $4.8 billion.
So let me walk you through each of the 6 groups in a little more detail.
Our Ag products revenue grew 9% as a 12% improvement in average revenue per car more than offset a 3% decline in volume.
During third quarter last year UP's grain exports hit their third highest volume ever.
So against that tough comparison and with increased world production this year exports were down 31% driving the group's overall decline in carloading.
A 7% increase in domestic feed grain shipments helped to offset at least some of the export softness and we also saw a strength in Grain products where shipments climbed 5% with solid gains in ethanol biodiesel and meals.
Despite shaky consumer confidence and a weak economic indicators the U.S.
vehicle sales were up 6% versus last year for the quarter supporting a 10% increase in our Automotive shipments.
The growth in volume combined with a 12% improvement in average revenue per car drove a 23% increase in revenue.
Our finished vehicle shipments increased 5% despite the lingering impact of the Japanese tsunami.
But the good news going forward is that by the quarter's end U.S.
production had returned to normal for all manufacturers setting the stage for a stronger fourth quarter.
As production increased in anticipation of improving sales our part shipments were up 18%.
Our Chemicals volume grew 5% which combined with an 8% improvement in average revenue per car to produce a 14% increase in revenue.
The Petroleum Products business led our Chemicals growth as shipments increased 35%.
Most of that growth came from crude oil originating primarily in the Bakken and Eagle Ford Shale regions although we also saw a solid growth in asphalt shipments.
Elsewhere the solid performance that we've seen across the major Chemical segments continued in the third quarter.
The one exception was fertilizer where volumes slipped 5% because of reduced export demands.
Energy revenue grew 21% as a 13% improvement in average revenue per car combined with volume growth of 7%.
Weather again played a role as the impact of the Midwest flooding continued in July.
However almost all of that business was made up during the quarter as was about 60% of the loads that we missed during the second quarter.
New business to the Wisconsin utilities along with the new coal-fired plant coming online near Waco Texas produced most of the 5% increase in Southern Powder River Basin tonnage although volume actually was up to most of our utilities year-over-year.
Colorado/Utah tonnage was up 9% its first year-over-year quarterly growth since early 2008.
Supporting that volume growth was relatively strong international market demand and also the return to production of one of the mines that had been relocating to new reserves.
Our Industrial Products volume grew 8% which combined with a 15% improvement in average revenue per car drove a 24% increase in revenue.
Metallic mineral shipments doubled as our iron ore unit train business for export to China continued to ramp up.
Drilling demand in the energy market once again drove a 39% increase in nonmetallic minerals primarily frac sands and a 13% increase in steel.
Our Intermodal revenue grew 8% as a 15% improvement in average revenue per unit more than offset a 6% decline in volume.
The volume decrease resulted from a 12% reduction in our International Intermodal shipments primarily the result of weak West Coast imports but also impacted by the contract loss that we talked about in the second quarter which cost us about 12 000 units.
The news is a little brighter in our Domestic Intermodal business where volume was up 2% and strengthening through the quarter.
We set a new 7-day volume record of 29 500 units during the last week of September topping the old record set last November by 8%.
You'll recall in the second quarter we talked to you about MCP our Mutual Commitment Program that was boosting margins but also was holding down our domestic volume.
Well in the third quarter that commitment program was paying big benefits for our customers as we've had near-perfect delivery on our box availability commitments.
We're proving that we can keep our commitments effectively providing MCP customers with needed capacity and reliable service even as our domestic business tracks 6% to 7% ahead of last year's record volumes.
So as we look to the end of the year I have to admit that I've been disappointed by the weakness on our International Intermodal peak season but the good news is that the diversity of our franchise should continue to provide opportunities to more than offset the challenges that we face in the fourth quarter.
First of all in terms of challenges the better world crop production and plentiful storage available for a smaller-than-expected U.S.
corn crop shows that whole grain export shipments are still going to be soft in contrast to last year's record volume.
We're also not expecting International Intermodal to get any stronger.
But here's where we do expect to see the offset.
September auto sales were at their highest seasonally adjusted levels since April supporting the expectation that pent-up demand will sustain our Auto's momentum despite the economic headwinds.
The new Wisconsin Utility business the new plant in Texas should keep our coal volumes strong together with improved Colorado/Utah production and the lower SPRB inventories which right now still trail what would be considered normal stockpiles by about 7 days.
Energy-related drilling should continue to drive growth in nonmetallic minerals and steel in our Industrial Products group.
And steel should also benefit from the continued recovery in the auto industry and our export iron ore should also be a growth driver for Industrial Products.
Petroleum products should again lead the way and fertilizer will rebound with seasonal demand so we expect our Chemicals business to stay strong.
And the recent strength in Domestic Intermodal should continue as well because retailers will be pulling inventory from West Coast distribution centers ahead of the holidays.
And I know many of you are already thinking beyond the fourth quarter and we are too.
Barring any sort of unusual or unexpected event like a Japanese tsunami or a total U.S.
or global economic meltdown we're thinking that the slow growth trajectory that we're seeing today continues on for the foreseeable future.
And as we look at that that spells real opportunity for Union Pacific.
Energy demand should remain strong and be a solid growth driver in terms of frac sand pipe petroleum ethanol and biodiesel.
Strong world demand for metallic minerals and other U.S.
natural resources like soda ash support a strong growth outlook in those fast-growing markets for us.
Our Ag business will continue to pace with population growth which provides a solid base load and also allows us to take advantage of global export opportunities should they develop it.
So with that foundation and a recovering auto industry we're delivering record results in the year where products like lumber cement rock and appliances are tracking anywhere from 30% to 60% below previous record volumes.
So as we think about the future even the smallest improvement in consumer confidence and consumer spending really offers Union Pacific additional upside opportunity.
So overall our strong value proposition underpinned by excellent service positions us to take advantage of the opportunities offered by our diverse franchise.
The resulting volume growth combined with expected pricing gains should continue to drive record revenue not only in the fourth quarter but for the foreseeable future as well.
So with that I'll turn it over to Lance.
Thanks Jack and good morning.
I'll start with our safety performance.
In employee safety we achieved a record third quarter reportable personal injury rate and best-ever year-to-date results.
The continued maturation of our Total Safety Culture our risk identification and mitigation and training and education efforts drove the improvement.
Our safety culture is especially important as we hired  to cover attrition and volume.
In terms of rail equipment incidents or derailments our year-to-date FRA reportable rate increased 7% driven largely by low-cost yard and industry-lead incidents.
In the third quarter human factor and truck-related incidents increased compared to the prior year.
We continue to accelerate investments in our yards and our terminals to get our exposure back on the right trend line.
Most encouraging despite increases in rail and highway traffic during the year our crossing accident rate improved 6% year-to-date versus 2010.
We continue to help communities address risky driver behavior and to close grade crossings.
In fact since 2001 we've closed over 4 000 at-grade crossings on the UP system in addition to educating the public about grade crossing safety.
We remain committed to improving our safety performance on the way to operating an incident-free network.
Before getting into our service performance I want to spend a minute on how we have managed the weather challenges you've heard us talk about.
Operations improved substantially during the third quarter in the flood-impacted areas and we are getting closer to normal business operations in that region.
Our team worked tirelessly and successfully to protect our service product through the floods.
The South was a completely different challenge this quarter.
Extreme drought in Central Texas created unstable soil conditions and when combined with record heat generated a sharp increase in slow orders.
These speed restrictions reduced capacity and velocity requiring additional resources like crews and locomotives.
At the same time our volume in the area grew by about 10% putting even more pressure on the strained network.
We reacted by applying surge resources and increasing track maintenance in Texas.
Slow orders turned the corner in September and improved another 17% so far in October.
I anticipate continued improvement during the fourth quarter as we return to normal operations in Texas.
Network performance for the third quarter remained relatively strong despite these challenges demonstrating our resiliency and recoverability.
As carloads grew almost 5% from July to September our network performance remains solid.
However we did see about a 1 mile per hour impact on our quarterly velocity due to weather-related challenges.
We gained momentum in September and continue to see improvement in October.
By applying the principles of the unified plan and utilizing our surge resources we sustained the network's service reliability and demonstrated its resiliency.
As Jack discussed we continue to provide solid customer service at the local level.
Our industry spot-and-pull measure was 94% for the quarter which nears the all-time record -- quarterly record of 95% set in the second quarter of this year.
This is the first move and last move for our customer and it's critical to overall customer satisfaction.
This performance reflects our continued focus on the fundamentals: improving network performance service reliability and operational efficiency.
Slide 17 illustrates some of those efficiencies.
Gross ton miles per employee were essentially flat with 2010 despite the addition of over 1 000 new hires in the training pipeline and an increase in employees working on capital projects and positive train control.
Surge resources added to combat the impact of slow orders and speed restrictions that I discussed earlier also masked productivity gains during the quarter.
Those productivity gains included our work to improve train sizes.
Train lengths for our manifest and intermodal traffic continued to increase.
The growth in intermodal train size this quarter is particularly noteworthy considering intermodal volumes were down 6% in the quarter compared to 2010.
And we continue to balance manpower with demand with an average of nearly 500 employees per load during the third quarter.
If you look at current levels we have roughly 700 or more employees on furlough status.
The endgame is to realize the full potential of the UP franchise translated into these deliverables.
World-class safety results on the way to an incident-free network growing the value proposition for our customers by recovering to record levels of service continuing to generate network productivity for bottom line results and positioning for growth resulting from our solid service performance.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
Let's start by summarizing our third quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 16% to a record $5.1 billion on the strength of fuel surcharge recoveries core pricing gains and volume growth.
Operating expense totaled $3.5 billion increasing 17% or $516 million compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Higher fuel prices accounted for over half of the cost increase.
Operating income totaled $1.6 billion a 13% increase and an all-time record quarter.
Other income totaled $17 million in the third quarter $8 million lower compared to last year.
Quarterly  interest expense declined 7% versus the third quarter of 2010 to $142 million driven by lower average debt levels.
Third quarter income tax expense increased to $549 million.
Higher pretax earnings drove this increase.
Net income totaled $904 million increasing 16% compared to 2010.
The outstanding share balance declined 2% versus last year reflecting our share repurchase activity.
These results drove an all-time quarterly earnings record of $1.85 per share increasing 19% versus last year.
Turning to our top line we achieved 16% freight revenue growth to an all-time record of $4.8 billion.
Slide 21 provides a walk across of the third quarter growth drivers.
Carloadings were up 1%.
We also saw a positive mix impact driven by strong growth in higher average revenue per car moves.
We achieved core pricing gains of 4.5% in the third quarter which includes RCAF fuel escalators.
As you know we calculate pricing gains as a percent of our total book of business and with the bulk of our 2011 legacy portfolio coming up for renewal in the fourth quarter it is not a major driver of our 2011 core pricing gains.
Fuel surcharge revenue added 7 points to the top line driven by higher fuel prices in the third quarter versus 2010 and a slight tailwind on the surcharge recovery lag.
In addition to solid core pricing gains we saw improvements in our incremental margins this quarter.
Of course there are many moving parts impacting this number including revenues and costs associated with weather-related challenges.
So adjusting only for higher fuel prices our incremental margin was 41% in the third quarter.
As we said in July our second quarter adjusted incremental margin of 36% would be the low mark for the year.
This still holds true even with the lower volume growth that we've seen in the back half of the year thus far.
Now let's turn to expenses.
Slide 23 summarizes our year-over-year increase in operating expense by category.
As I mentioned higher fuel prices contributed to over half of the $516 million increase in expense.
Other year-over-year increases include inflationary costs and volume-related expenses.
We also saw additional labor increases driven by higher TE&amp;Y training costs and drought-related expenses as Lance just described.
With that let's spend a minute and walk through each of these categories.
Third quarter fuel expense totaled $916 million increasing $308 million compared to 2010.
The average diesel fuel price which increased 42% year-over-year was the biggest driver of the quarterly change.
The average barrel price of $90 rose 18% compared to last year.
In addition conversion spreads which cover the costs to convert crude oil to diesel fuel tripled from 2010 levels to an average of $37 per barrel in the third quarter.
Although our improving fuel surcharge mechanisms enable us to recover the majority of higher fuel prices the resulting increase in expense and revenue created a negative impact of 1.7 points on our third quarter operating ratio versus 2010.
Fuel expense was also higher as a result of a 5% increase in gross ton miles and a 1% increase in our fuel consumption rate.
Slide 25 summarizes third quarter expenses for compensation and benefits.
Comp and benefits expense is up 9% compared to 2010.
Over half of the increase in expense can be attributed to inflationary pressures that we have discussed with you before including health and welfare unemployment taxes wage increases and pension costs.
Looking forward our initial planning for 2012 would indicate that labor inflation should moderate somewhat from 2011 levels.
Training costs were up $17 million in the quarter as we continue to hire new employees to cover expected attrition and volume growth and additional crews needed to manage through the slow orders and speed restrictions in the South drove expenses up $18 million in the quarter.
Lastly the unusually large mix shift and growth in manifest traffic this quarter drove a higher volume impact on labor expenses.
Carload growth of 1% and a gross ton mile increase of 5% resulted in a volume growth impact on expense of 2% to 2.5%.
Productivity gains of about 1.5% mostly offset this increase.
Slide 26 takes a closer look at the change in our workforce levels.
Workforce levels increased 5% in the third quarter compared to last year.
We again had more employees in the training pipeline and more individuals working on capital projects including positive train control.
Base workforce levels also increased driven by volume growth and the impact of additional crews needed to manage through the drought-related speed restrictions in the South.
In July we indicated that our full year workforce would be up roughly 1 500 employees depending on second half volume levels.
Currently we still are on track with those projections.
Now turning to other expense categories purchased services and materials expense increased 9% or $41 million to $506 million.
Higher contract service expense was the biggest year-over-year driver.
Locomotive and freight car maintenance costs were also up compared to 2010.
In addition crew lodging and transportation costs increased with the growth in volume levels and weather-related challenges.
Other expenses came in at $207 million slightly better than our guidance of $215 million to $225 million primarily due to lower personal injury expense.
Versus 2010 other expenses were up $29 million.
Higher property taxes and increased costs for damage equipment and freight drove expenses up in the quarter versus 2010.
Looking at the fourth quarter we expect the other expense category to be similar to the third quarter results again assuming no unusual items.
Slide 28 summarizes third quarter expenses for the remaining 2 categories.
Depreciation expense increased 10% or $36 million to $408 million which is in line with our previous guidance.
Increased capital spending and higher depreciation associated with hauling more gross ton miles drove the increase.
We should expect a similar rate of increase in the fourth quarter as well.
Third quarter equipment and other rents expense totaled $293 million essentially flat with last year.
Higher container lease and short-term freight car rental expenses were offset by lower locomotive lease expense.
Bringing revenue and expenses together Union Pacific's operating ratio illustrates the substantial improvements in profitability that we've achieved over the last several years.
On a reported basis our operating ratio was 69.1% for the third quarter of 2011.
Ongoing productivity efforts core pricing gains and volume growth all contributed to this mark.
Higher fuel prices continue to put pressure on our operating ratio creating a 1.7 point headwind in the third quarter and 2 points of headwind year-to-date compared to 2010.
However if you adjust for fuel prices we still expect to see real improvement this year in our core operating ratio performance versus last year's all-time record.
Union Pacific's profitability in the third quarter of 2011 also drove record free cash flow after dividends.
Growth in cash from operations more than offset increased capital spending and higher dividend payments.
Cash dividends paid in the year-to-date period of 2011 were up 39% from 2010 levels.
We continue to see the benefits of bonus depreciation which had a more positive impact on our cash flows in 2011 than in 2010.
Union Pacific's balance sheet remains at excellent shape supporting our investment-grade credit rating.
At the end of the third quarter the adjusted debt-to-cap ratio was 41.4%.
This positions us well in a wide range of economic scenarios.
Our performance is generating strong cash flow and we are returning that to our shareholders.
During the third quarter we bought back 4.7 million shares totaling $428 million up from the second quarter purchases.
Year-to-date this takes our total repurchases to over $1 billion.
Looking forward we have nearly 32 million shares remaining under our current authorization.
When you combine our dividend payments and share repurchases this year we've returned over $1.6 billion to our shareholders.
Dividend growth and opportunistic share repurchases continue to be key components of our balanced approach to cash allocation for the long-term benefit of our shareholders.
Looking ahead we see continued opportunities to grow and improve our profitability.
As Jack discussed we're focused on continued year-over-year volume growth in the fourth quarter.
Of course this assumes that the economy cooperates.
We remain committed to achieving real pricing gains driven by the increased value of our service market demand and added benefit of competing for and repricing our legacy business.
We believe that continued revenue growth and our ongoing productivity efforts should produce record earnings in 2011 allowing us to reward our shareholders with even greater returns.
So with that let me turn it back over to Jim.
Thanks Rob.
Now before we open up to questions I wanted to provide a quick update on the national labor negotiations.
As you know the United Transportation Union which is the industry's largest union ratified a new contract earlier this year.
We think the agreement is fair and equitable to both parties.
The remaining unions were released from mediation which led to the creation of the Presidential Emergency Board.
The PEB is scheduled to submit their recommendations by November 7.
In the meantime the industry remains committed to achieving a negotiated settlement that reflects the patterns of the UTU agreement.
Our employees are critical to the success of this company.
We currently enjoy good working relationships and we expect that to continue as we move forward through the negotiation process there.
So with that let's open it up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions]  Our first question is from Bill Greene of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Jim so if we're looking at this if it weren't for fuel and the weather stuff you had an OR below 68 and I realize the third quarter is typically your best.
But I've got to think that this kind of performance gives you a much greater conviction in your ability to hit the long-term goals regardless of kind of how the macro plays out.
Is that sort of fair? I think that's very fair.
Research Division</strong> So we've got a big legacy reprice next year.
How does Union Pacific sort of think about updating that long-term guidance then? Do you have to get there and then you'll address it or? We can sort of see these trends.
It's a big year next year? Well Bill yes to me the real wild card is where do we think the economy is going.
If you get some upside in the economy obviously we have a greater potential going forward here.
We'll stick with our current guidance we said 65 to 67 OR and see how things go.
But we're feeling pretty good about the markets the pricing we're able to get for the value we're providing and then efficiency.
Research Division</strong> Yes no it makes sense.
And then just on pricing fourth quarter pricing we've been flat all year.
Given that the legacy is way at the end of the quarter is that safe to say for 4.5% that there shouldn't be a big step-up or we will actually see the legacy in the fourth quarter? Not in fourth quarter.
You'll see the impact of legacies next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the acceleration comes next year.
Our next question is from the line of Peter Nesvold of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Coal volumes were unusually strong in the context of the other Class 1s for the quarter particularly Burlington.
I'm just curious if there's any thoughts on the out-performance whether just kind of where the relative flooding was geographically and you just kind of got the long straw? Or was there some kind of market share gains or anything else that sort of impacted the flows during the quarter? Peter the prime difference there was flooding.
Clearly BN got hit much harder than we did.
Look at their announcement they had in their capital.
That gives you an indication what kind of hit they had.
There wasn't much in terms of share shift at all.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then a follow-up with the reprice coming up at the end of fourth quarter any perspective on how volume-dependent the potential for yields are as you negotiate that -- or as that new contract goes into effect? Well again the legacy deals that we have negotiated and are currently still negotiating will carryover and really you'll see the impact in 2012.
I mean the big spreads in some of these obviously are you look at what happened here with our falloff in Intermodal versus the other groups this year but we've got very good opportunity next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But you don't feel disadvantaged at all going into that process the fact that volumes are much -- I mean the volume growth has really slowed here in the last 3 years or so? No.
These are long-term propositions when you look at them.
You're making deals that are many years out so the assessment is one on what is the value proposition that the UP franchise can offer.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Ceraso with Credit Suisse Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
First on the wage and benefit front can you give us a feel for what kind of inflation you're looking at over the term of the next contract? Rob go ahead.
Yes.
We're not going to get into the specifics on the contract Chris but one thing just to comment on the overall inflation on the comp and benefits line we said it's about 5.5% this year.
We expect that to moderate as we head into 2012 somewhere more in the call it 4%-ish range rather than 5.5%.
Chris I mean the UTU deal if you look at it it's 17% over 5.5 years.
So you can kind of get a feel there in terms of the math.
The real key is healthcare costs which is -- if you look at our contract what was put on the table of contents there's very little in there in terms of work rules where we see the biggest opportunity long-term is again as most businesses in America is struggling with is rising healthcare costs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one your Automotive business.
Can you give us an idea of how much of your Auto franchise is with the Japanese OEMs? Jack? We have about 30% with the domestic Big 3 and -- so about 70% with GM Ford Chrysler and then about 30% with everybody else.
Our next question is from the line of Tom Wadewitz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Michael Weinz in for Tom.
I guess to start with on coal could you give us the actual stockpile levels? You said that it was down 7 days year-over-year and that you guys had made up 60% of what you had lost in the second quarter.
And is that expected to -- is the remainder expected to be made up in fourth? Jack? We'll probably make up the rest of that in the fourth quarter I would expect.
And the other thing Mike I don't have the exact numbers in terms of 59 days versus 52 days those kinds of deals but there is a 7-day differential.
I would expect as you look at those numbers -- that is the Powder River Basin stockpile situation.
I would expect those tend to probably be more reflective of what's happening with the BN customers given that they were more severely impacted.
But we should still see fairly solid coal volumes here in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And for the second question related to headcount you had said that you're still expecting the 1 500 increase year-over-year.
Is that an end-of-quarter fourth quarter number or an average fourth quarter number? End of quarter.
End-of-quarter but fourth quarter projection.
Research Division</strong> So that kind of implies a slight decline from third quarter.
Is that related to Texas? It is a slight decline but it's just based on our projection of where volumes -- basically it's what volumes have done here at the back half of the year.
Typically we reduce headcount late in the fourth quarter for seasonal purposes.
Some of your capital projects.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Rob you mentioned the incremental margins and the ability to kind of get a little bit of an acceleration potentially.
Do you need to see the legacy contract start to roll through or is this the type of progress that you might be able to make in 4Q assuming that you don't necessarily get hit with another type of weather interruption? It's kind of all of the above but again reminder for the fourth quarter alone we don't expect to get much additional uptick yield from the legacy.
That's mostly going to carry over into 2012.
So as we look in the fourth quarter it's going to be volume productivity ongoing pricing initiatives that are under way.
And just again a reminder for us to hit our long-term guidance of that 65 to 67 full year operating ratio by 2015 that implies on an annualized basis as we look forward that we'll be in that incremental margin neighborhood of about 50%.
And that's taking into consideration the legacy repricing as we look forward.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Now that's helpful.
When we think about furloughs you take a look at the average number than what you ended the quarter with.
Obviously it picked up a little bit while volumes were starting to accelerate.
How do you think about that number for the fourth quarter? I'm just trying to get a sense of what's driving the furloughs.
Is it just timing issues or is there something else behind it? Lance you're on.
When you think about the fourth quarter in furloughs what's going to happen is as peak season starts bleeding off typically on the TE&amp;Y side our furloughs will increase.
And likewise as we start getting frozen out of some parts of the network from a maintenance away and capital project perspective we start furloughing also on the maintenance-away side.
And Chris the big driver here I mean the surprise to us was one on International Intermodal.
And if you look across our regions North South and West the biggest brunt to the furloughs was out West simply because there was very -- really no decrease in International business this year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay no that's helpful.
One final quick one.
Just Jim from a process perspective we get the PEB recommendations in the beginning in November.
What's the process after that and what do you think about the timeline going forward after recommendations come in? Well you've got really another 30-day cooling off.
I mean the key date is around December 7 in terms of when the potential would be there for some actionable parties.
So as I said November 7 is the date that the PEB recommendations come out and both parties have to take a look at those recommendation and negotiate from there.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Hoexter with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Lance that was a great overview on the handling of the drought and kind of goes back to the middle of the 2000s when you kind of sat there going through El Paso and Phoenix when you had problems but it's great to see how smooth things bounce back now.
But when you think about the equipment status you kind of give the employee furloughs can you talk about the equipment side? What have you done on the locomotives part there? What do you need to do in terms of CapEx? It sounded like you added a bunch of locomotives.
What do you need to do now to get that back reset to ongoing operations? Sure.
So on the locomotive side is the South continues to come back to normal.
You'll see us being able to bleed off some of that locomotive count put those back in storage.
We're at about 600 units right now and as the South gets normal and as volumes from the peak season start dropping off you'll see that storage number grow.
Now the reason why we're buying locomotives next year isn't just a volume story.
We've got locomotives in the capital budget next year for a number of reasons.
We get a pretty decent return off of them driven by fuel efficiency the fact that they're DPU-enabled and that helps us on the train size productivity side of the story.
And then I think we've talked to you before about Tier 4 requirements another federal mandate that takes effect in 2015.
And purchasing locomotives now is a little bit of a hedge against the fact that the manufacturers of locomotives do not have yet purchasable locomotive that meets those 2015 guidelines.
So there's a little bit of a risk hedge in that purchase as well.
Research Division</strong> And also can you talk about how the progress I guess maybe Rob also on the progress of the UMAX domestic network? What have you done in terms of containers and how has that progressed with CSX since you rolled that out? Jack? We're having great success with UMAX.
We're feeling good about it.
Like I said our Domestic Intermodal volumes right now -- last year we actually hit a record in terms of Domestic Intermodal during kind of the second phase of peak season.
So if you think about peak season in terms of international phase goes first and then domestic so now we're in the domestic side we're 6% to 7% stronger than we were a year ago.
And it looks like that's going to probably continue on at least for the next several weeks.
So we've made some great product offerings with the CSX.
We've been running really well in terms of our on-time delivery despite things like the floods and some of those kinds of things.
So we're well positioned.
Yes we've got good programs with both NS and CSX.
There are no domestic container stored today in the UP side.
I think the other thing you want to keep in mind on demand here the sales-inventory ratios are still very very tight.
And as you see in the domestic trucking sector capacity grew tight.
So it'll be interesting to see how the rest of this year plays out given tight inventories.
And we're pretty balanced in terms of the number of containers that we have in both programs.
So it's a nice opportunity for us.
Research Division</strong> So Jack how should we read that though? If you said that domestic obviously nothing in storage and that we've moved into the second part of peak and you're seeing that used but yet the International remains so weak because of the short and brief peak season.
Is that just still all truck conversion that's still going on out West or how do you read the differential? That's a really good question because when you look at what's happening in inventory levels -- if you look at inventory-to-sales ratios you're not really seeing any improvement there still historically low.
So you're seeing a lot of product that's moving distribution centers to stores a lot of what I would describe as more like spot purchases of retails and we are seeing a lot of truck conversion in that process.
So that's been a very strong growth arm for us in terms of that highway conversion.
Our next question is from the line of Gary Chase of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if I could ask a couple of Jack on the expert side.
First I saw recently that Russia was and not a formal ban like last time but limiting some of the exports.
I wondered if what your thoughts were on that if it was factored into your thought process about volume declines continued volume declines in the grain export business in the fourth quarter.
Yes Gary.
We are looking -- last year we had a record fourth quarter.
We had all kinds of good things happening.
We had the Russian drought.
We had the Ukraine banning the export of their grain and other problems around the world.
The whole situation has turned around differently for us now.
So Russia is very strong in terms of their production capability.
We have tough comps.
So we're actually expecting that we're going to see somewhere in the neighborhood of like a 5% to 6% decline in our export grain movements in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I wondered too if the iron ore exports that you were referring to were higher-rated business than what you might see in the rest of the industrial book because pricing there looked solid.
And there are some who are wondering if maybe some of the exports to China of iron ore will cool off a little bit looking forward.
Our book of business for export iron ore is priced well.
We're very comfortable with our profitability and the re-investability of that business but that's also true of our other business in our Industrial Products world.
Research Division</strong> You've got some pretty good visibility on those exports for the fourth quarter? Yes.
We think it's going to continue to be strong.
Or we're going to continue to move.
It's always kind of one of those deals where you have to watch China very carefully because they consume I think about half of the world trade in iron ore today.
So should they decide to change course here relatively quickly we've seen how that can happen but right now we're looking for a solid fourth quarter.
Gary the other thing you have to keep in mind while we've got some of our international markets still pretty hot right now as Jack mentioned you have -- within the Industrial Products group on the domestic side we have markets there that are still 30% 40% 50% 60% lower than they were in the peak.
Anything related to construction is 40% 50% below.
So while we've got some markets that are hot that could cool off a little bit.
You've got others that are barely alive I guess is maybe the best description so...
Our next question is from the line of Scott Group with Wolfe Trahan.
So with the upcoming legacy opportunities I'm wondering how much of that business is already locked in with new contracts.
I guess I'm trying to understand if there's a rough percent of the business you feel confident that you're going to keep.
Jack you want to take that one? We're making good progress on all of our legacy negotiations as it stands right now.
And we're very comfortable that we're working hard to retain all of that business.
Scott we have lost some of our business.
If you look at repricing these legacy deals.
I mean we're competing with the other guys and in some cases we've lost some of the business.
And the key is we're setting some minimum returns that we look at and if we can't get it I'm willing to walk.
So in the cases in the past where you've lost a legacy deal obviously there's a volume and a revenue hit.
But does there tend to be much of an operating income loss from losing a legacy deal? Well in short term anytime you take out a pretty good chunk of revenue we can't get cost out fast enough so you do take some pressure in your operating income.
On the other hand though we can redeploy some assets.
If you think about locomotives some of the -- our track capacity is pretty generic when you look at the way products move.
We also were able to take advantage -- we have a continuing attrition on the workforce side.
We're going to lose about 4 000 employees a year for the foreseeable future so you can fairly quickly adjust your workforce.
But I've got to tell you the first quarter you lose that revenue it usually has a negative impact on the bottom line.
Right.
I guess I was just thinking that these are probably lower-margin if any margin business.
Well they're clearly -- and some of these we're losing money in every carload we handle from a long-term variable cost perspective.
So I mean that's why this sense of urgency and why it's so important that we've got to get this margins up in this business.
So you're right in that context.
Longer-term it isn't quite a big of a hit but it's still a little bit of hit.
Great that's helpful.
And just second question as you prepare for a continued slow growth if that's what happens what should that mean for headcount next year? I'm wondering when you expect the headcount growth and the volume growth to come more in line.
Is that an early 2012 event or not until late 2012? Well long term what we would expect to see is -- again let's assume you've got positive growth year-over-year.
You will see headcount increase but not at the same rates.
We got ourselves caught a little bit this year that we have a lot of people in hiring.
The International Intermodal was much -- came in negative.
So we got caught a little bit with surplus resources but again long term you won't see the same kind of growth in volume in headcount.
And Jim I mean the other thing that's going to normalize is the delta just the pure delta in the training pipeline which we've talked about several quarters and the pure delta in the capital headcount there.
Now keep in mind we're also hiring for PTC right now.
That doesn't have anything to do with volume.
So you've got to separate out a little bit and at the end of the day we've got to recover that cost in the business.
There's no excuses.
But where you look at kind of the pure volume-related numbers we should continue to see productivity every year.
When do you think we normalize? I think you're going to see that probably fourth quarter or first quarter next year.
It'll be better comps on our labor and our force levels.
Our next question is from the line of John Larkin of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> There's been a lot of talk about natural gas substitution at power plants in the East and also the impact of the new EPA regulations that are going into effect next year.
Is there any risk to your Coal business next year or the year after from these 2 sources? Jack? Yes John there's always some risk to that because of the grid and how it plays.
Most of our utilities our utilities are fairly modern productive so in the overall distribution of things we don't have that many that we see as potentially shutting down.
But anytime that any new utility is being constructed or things like that certainly with natural gas hanging in there in the $3 to $4 range it's a pretty attractive alternative to building a coal plant.
And I think we're going to be okay next year in our Coal business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the NIT League's proposed reciprocal switching idea that is now sitting before the STB do you think that gets any traction at all even as a test case? Well we'll have to see.
I mean we have we're obviously made our comments in terms of -- I mean it's access.
You can call it whatever you want to and I think we've been consistent in our message that anytime you introduce some kind of artificial competition which it is there could be a consequence in our growth in capital.
So we'll see what happens in terms of ultimately what comes out of STB.
Our next question is from the line of Justin Yagerman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was curious just an update given the backtrack in volume growth that we've seen here where do you feel you are right now with the network capacity? Given the operating leverage you guys were able to generate in the quarter even with low volumes I'm curious what a nice uptick in volumes would look like and how you'd be able to handle that.
Lance? Sure.
We feel very good about the amount of capacity we've gotten in fixed infrastructure.
Once again our peak carloading month was north of 200 000 7-day carloads.
Now as we've continued to invest in the right areas in the network we've substantially improved the service product that we have in comparison to what we delivered during that 200 000-plus month.
But as we look forward with a capital program that we've got in place or planned for and the way that the network is operating we feel very good about the amount of capacity that we've got in fixed assets right now.
Research Division</strong> Are we talking 10 to 15 15 to 20 in terms of being able to handle additional room? John -- or Justin I'm sorry.
It's very dependent on where that growth occurs and how quickly it comes on but in terms of any reasonable estimate of what we think is going to be happening as we look forward we are very well situated to be able to continue to provide excellent service and handle the growth.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a follow-up question I was curious you called out on the Chemicals side the great growth that you guys are seeing off a small base in terms of crude opportunity in the Bakken and Eagle shales.
Can you give us a sense of what kind of indications you're getting? I'm assuming unit train business is pretty profitable stuff.
Where is the growth there for that business and how long of a ramp do we have in front of us for that? Jack? Overall Justin I think the growth potential for the business is excellent.
I mean the primary play we're seeing right now is Bakken but Eagle Ford is just starting to come in on our railroad.
And so we're right and positioned well where from a profitability point of view.
Rail actually provides some great flexibility for those customers that basically doesn't tie them into a single destination on a pipeline.
So even as pipelines get built and developed we continue to think that for the foreseeable future rail is going to have a play in this marketplace and it's going to be a solid growth opportunity for Union Pacific.
Research Division</strong> How does the profitability of that business compare to coal unit trains? It depends on contract to contract but it's solid profitable.
It meets our re-investable criteria and we're very happy with it.
Our next question is from the line of Cherilyn Radbourne of TD Newcrest.
Research Division</strong> As we sit here we're sort of in uncertain economic outlook I wonder if you could just talk about the cost levers that you could pull in the event that volumes came in slower than expected.
And just comment in the extent to which it's more difficult to adjust to a small volume decline versus the kind of big declines we saw during the financial crisis.
Well if you look back at the -- I think a good model to look at what happened when we had in 2008 early 2009 when we had a falloff in the business and that was pretty substantial.
If you recall I think second quarter of '09 we're down almost 20% 25% in volume.
We have the opportunity as I've said earlier that we're losing about 4 000 employees a year through attrition.
What happens -- and even in a small falloff in volume we'll try to take advantage of where we can that attrition.
If that means we slow down hiring which is what we have done here on the western part of our region we can try to respond as quickly as possible.
When it gets into locomotives and capacity things like that obviously in the short term you're not going to be able to do much other than put some in storage.
But again a short-term blip either down or up you're not going to get as much response.
The question is if you see this thing turning down here and you start looking 2 3 4 or 5 quarters you'll see us being able to take more advantage of taking costs out.
Research Division</strong> And what indicators are you guys relying on to assess the business at this stage? Well we start with our customers' perspectives.
We're very close to our customers trying to understand where they're making investments where they're putting capacity and there's long lead times in that.
And so far it's still very strong when we look in several of these groups here.
At the end of the day though we look every morning at what were loadings yesterday and it's pretty intense running the business daily.
And if we see things turn off sharply we will respond.
You try to be as proactive as you can but nobody has perfect vision to the future here.
Our next question is from David Vernon of Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Could we maybe talk a little bit about the Domestic Intermodal yield management efforts kind of what kind of business is actually leaving the network and how that pricing discussion is going and what kind of a runway you look at on that Intermodal repricing? Jack? Any business that you see right now leaving the network is being replaced on a fairly strong basis bases by truck conversions.
So for instance if you think about our little streamline subsidiary did 80 000 moves last year it's growing 20%.
84% of that business in the third quarter is coming off the highway.
So highway conversion is more than making up for anything that we lose for us in terms of our yield diversions.
And we're particularly seeing that now in the third quarter.
Originally in the early part of the year we were having a little bit of a startup issue with our MCP program just because it was something new and different and the idea of making a commitment was something that some customers weren't all that excited about.
But I think what they're seeing right now is we're doing such a great job of that.
And they're already starting to talk about signing up for next year and giving us some strong indications with our service performance and the way we are meeting our commitments.
It'll be a solid path forward for us so we're actually feeling quite good about that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So does that mean that the full 6% year-over-year decline was International import/export then? Yes actually...
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Was it actually a little worse then there was a domestic offset then? When you see our third quarter results -- so if you looked into our third quarter results our International business was down 12%.
Our Domestic business was up 2% but that 2% is a weak start to the quarter that built to a relatively strong end to the quarter.
So the 2% isn't really -- like I said right now we're running 6% 7% 8% better than a year ago.
Our next question is from the line of Walter Spracklin of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> So my first question here is just for Lance perhaps.
On your train sizes trending very nicely here ticking up each year can you talk to us a bit about what you see average train lengths being ultimately once you reequip your fleet with your current targets both on manifest I guess and to put into context intermodal train lengths as well? And touch a little bit on DP and what percentage your fleet is currently equipped DP compared to where you want to -- where your current targets are for percentage of your fleet equipped with the distributed power.
Okay.
First on train sizes.
The short answer is we've got plenty of opportunity to keep growing.
I think that Intermodal number this quarter was something like 170-plus.
Depending on the intermodal lane that can easily reach 200 250 and we've probably got some lanes where it could go north of 250.
So we've got plenty of upside there.
On the manifest side of the world we've got upside from the high 80s number that we are recording right now.
And when it comes to DPU strategy every incremental road unit that we're purchasing at this point forward is DPU-equipped and all of our current DPU locomotives are fully utilized.
I want to say somewhere in the 60% ballpark of our traffic right now is DPU-ed and that's just going to grow as we look forward.
And in terms of the total percentage of road fleet that's DPU-ed I can't answer that off the top of my head but it's a fair portion.
It's a pretty substantial portion.
Walter keep something in mind here though.
We could significantly drive train size up if we sacrifice service.
I mean the challenge that the operating team has is to run as efficient a train size as they can but meet aggressive service targets.
So that's the balance you have to wrestle with here.
I'm telling you service pays off big time.
We're seeing that in the market when we're redoing these deals and the value that's there so we've got to always keep both of those in mind train size and the service commitment.
LLC Research Division</strong> And that is an interesting point in terms of that being the bottleneck.
Your infrastructure is not the bottleneck.
Your sightings are long enough now to handle 200 to 250 car length trains.
Is that a fair statement? No.
We still have opportunities on capital particularly you look down in the South that we're struggling with today that we can improve the productivity and efficiency there.
Lance you want to add anything? Sure yes.
It's just very dependent again on the quarter and the specific route you're talking about.
Although again our current capital plan long-term and near-term takes that into account where we anticipate growth is going to be happening.
And we've got a solid capital plan to enable continued productivity and service improvements.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that great.
Second question here is just sort of a minor one.
Jack would you be able to quantify for us the percentage of your book that is currently legacy? How much you think of that is going to get repriced in the fourth quarter of 2011? And the estimated lift you've talked about about 100 basis point opportunity in average core pricing lift.
Is that still the case? I'm trying to look at my choices here.
Walter you've stumped us here.
Go ahead Rob.
Walter I would refer you back to the slide that you've seen us present in the past we didn't have it in our deck today that shows the breakout of legacy by year.
In 2012 as a reminder we said there's about $300 million worth of business up for renegotiation in our legacy book in 2012.
I mean we break it out in multiple years beyond that.
But we haven't provided specific guidance in terms of what the uplift will be other than if you look backwards we've said we've gotten about 2 points of yield annually from the benefit of repricing legacy.
We haven't given guidance as to what that uplift's going to be going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I remember correctly I think 2011 was the bulk -- was the biggest year out of the next 3 or 4 years.
Yes 2011 was about $750 million which was the back-end loaded comments that we've made.
Our next question is from the line of Matt Troy of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> The export coal story has primarily been one dominated by the Eastern rails.
We've recently seen some concerns about cooling export demand which I think any sane person would expect off this year's peak but we continue to think it's a multi-secular multiyear secular run.
You've got a couple of terminals that have been announced or proposed on the West Coast.
I'm just wondering Gateway Pacific Millennium Bulk Port of Morrow St.
Helens Grays Harbor Coos Bay which projects have you been approached about or are you in discussions with? And when do you see them potentially coming to fruition so you guys can move some export coal off the West Coast? Jack? Matt we're interested particularly in the ones up in the Longview Washington area the one -- I think it's called Ambre Energy the Australian company.
That one has some real opportunity for us and virtually any of the ones that we can access.
We're also looking at some Gulf Coast opportunities and even some possibilities moving down to Mexico.
So I think the big question for us particularly on the West Coast in the domestic U.S.
marketplace is whether or not those construction projects will actually take place and whether the EPA and the environmentalists and things I mean they have put a lot of roadblocks up in terms of getting those projects approved and under construction.
So that's the thing we're watching most right at the moment.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
Second question was -- and my last question would be just on the exports again.
Obviously imports were disappointing this peak season.
I was thinking more on the export side.
You've seen some fairly robust numbers out of the Port of L.A.
I think in the last 3 months up north of 20% in terms of full box exports out of L.A.
Are you seeing any of that business and can you just maybe clarify if you are -- what is it that you're moving to port that's going the other way? We're moving the iron ore business.
We're moving a lot of export soda ash export fertilizers.
And then in the boxes themselves we're seeing everything from DDGS to grain.
There's been some proposals -- well scrap paper is also a big item.
There's been some proposals for commodities even like iron ore as a potential to go back just about anything that will fit in a box and that's reasonably possible are things that a lot of the companies are looking at to take advantage of that excess capacity.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So fair to say that it's a lot of the different businesses and a lot of active discussions at present? Absolutely.
Our next question is from the line of Jason Seidl of Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
In terms of -- maybe not a legacy business left to be repriced but what percent of your book of business was repriced say from December 2008 through maybe the first quarter of 2009? Jason when you look at it there's 60% or 70% of our business -- no there's about 60% of our business that either moves under tariff or moves in one-year letter quotes so all of that gets repriced every year.
And then on an ongoing basis when you look at our multiyear contracts this year is a little bit of a larger group than what we've seen but the number just right off the top of my head is something -- in the past 12 months is going to be somewhere in the neighborhood of $2.5 billion $2.6 billion.
LLC Research Division</strong> $2.6 billion okay.
That's good color.
That would include both the legacy and the non-legacy.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fantastic.
Well I'm looking at obviously your Domestic Utility business.
The question was asked if any of the regulations actually could hurt you.
I'm going to ask it the other way.
Can any of them actually help you? Because obviously the CSAPR regulations they've changed a little bit over time but we've been hearing that some of the utility buyers might have held off a little bit buying some thermal.
Do you think they could actually start changing the bases they purchase from going forward? It could.
It could be a positive for us.
It just depends on how quickly the evolution takes place and what is playing.
One of the things we're seeing right now is actually kind of the side benefit of some of those regulations is the potential for moving either limestone or trona as a scrubbing agent to help meet some of those.
So when faced with kind of a long-term decision the quickest and most immediate thing might be to just put in a quick scrubbing solution that doesn't cost quite as much like the trona manufacturers offer to the utilities and that turns out to be a nice piece of business for us.
Our last question is coming from the line of Jeff Kauffman of Sterne Agee.
It's actually [indiscernible] in for Jeff.
Just had a question if you could talk about some of the changes that you're seeing at the ports of call on the West Coast and if you're seeing a net benefit from increased containers being dropped off in Oakland versus Los Angeles and Long Beach? Jack? We're not really seeing any major shifts or changes actually.
And they probably -- this isn't a good time for us to really see a lot of those because there's plenty of capacity everywhere.
Volume levels are below what they were a year ago in the third quarter.
So we're not seeing any dramatic shift taking place.
And then one more question.
Of the 7% increase in derailments per train miles how much of that was related to weather and the heat and the drought? Some was related to the heat and the drought in Texas clearly a lot of very low value train derailments track caused in yards and terminals.
And so there was a little bit of an impact there as well.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Jim Young for closing comments.
Well thank you everybody for joining us this morning.
I hope one of the things you recognized -- I think this quarter really reinforces the value of the diversity of the UP network and we had some surprises in some of the areas on volumes.
But once again the diversity paid off for us.
So we look forward to talking to you again with our fourth quarter earnings.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Union Pacific Fourth Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Jim Young Chairman and CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you Mr.
Young you may begin.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Union Pacific's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With me in Omaha today are Rob Knight our CFO; Jack Koraleski Executive Vice President Marketing and Sales; and Lance Fritz our Executive Vice President of Operations.
As you can see we finished 2011 with an all-time record quarter achieving a quarterly earnings milestone of $1.99 per share that's a 28% increase compared to 2010.
Our outstanding fourth quarter results demonstrate the capabilities of this diverse franchise and contributed to the most profitable year in Union Pacific's 150-year history.
Record top and bottom line results achieved historic marks and generated record financial returns and investments.
Rob will provide the details here in the financials in a minute.
We remain focused on delivering safe efficient high-quality service that generates value for our customers and translates into record financial returns for our shareholders.
These efforts were recognized with best ever 2011 marks in customer satisfaction and employee safety.
So with that we'll turn it over to Jack to cover the marketing details.
Thanks Jim and good morning.
We will start this morning with a recap of our record-setting customer satisfaction scores.
For the quarter customer satisfaction came in at 92.
That equals our best ever mark set in the second quarter.
And along the way October tied our best month at 93.
So in terms of how our customers view the value proposition that Union Pacific brought to them in 2011 we closed the year with a record-setting score of 92 3 full points better than the previous record set last year at 89.
And while we still have plenty of room for improvement faced with growing volumes the Union Pacific team delivered even while our operating team was out there battling blizzards flooding and droughts.
The advantage of a diverse franchise was again evident in the fourth quarter as volumes grew 3% despite our declines in Ag products and Intermodal.
Core pricing improved 5% with gains in all 6 of our businesses.
Those price gains higher fuel surcharge revenue and some positive mix as our carload business grew while Intermodal is a little soft drove average revenue per car up 13%.
The growth in volume and improved revenue per car produced a 16% increase in freight revenue to $4.8 billion.
So let me take you through each of our 6 groups in a little more detail.
On Slide 4 you can see -- well Slide 6.
Slide 6 you can see Ag products revenue grew 2% as a 7% improvement in average revenue per car more than offset a 5% decline in carloadings.
Softer volume wasn't unexpected as increased world crop production high U.S.
corn prices and plentiful crop storage reduced U.S.
grain exports.
Against 2010's record levels our export grain shipments actually declined 43%.
That decline was partially offset by a 22% growth in domestic grain boosted by drought damage to crops in West Texas and forward ethanol plants that reopened earlier in the year.
Our biofuels volume grew 18% in the fourth quarter.
We saw a record number of ethanol unit train shipped in December and biodiesel shipments surged as customers ramped up production to take advantage of the tax credits that expired at the end of the year.
With pent-up demand improving inventory levels aging vehicles across the country and improving credit terms the automotive industry continued to gain momentum pushing U.S.
vehicle sales to their highest level since the second quarter of 2008.
That strengthening was reflected in a 10% increase in our automotive volume which combined with a 13% improvement in average revenue per car to produce a 26% increase in revenue.
Our finished vehicle carloadings grew 14% and our part shipments were up about 7%.
Our Chemical business continued the strength we saw throughout the year with volume up 10% which along with a 7% improvement in average revenue per car produced an 18% increase in revenue.
Petroleum volume increased 46% driven primarily by increased crude oil shipments from the Bakken and Eagle Ford Shale regions.
Supporting that growth was our strong delivery network that combines geographic reach with flexible service options.
Increased shipments of polypropylene and polyethylene produced a 7% growth in plastics and all other segments of our Chemical business also saw volume increases including a near doubling of phos rock shipments as favorable weather and strong demand extended the shipping season.
Energy volume was up 8% which combined with a 12% improvement in average revenue per car to drive revenue up 21%.
The volume gains included some small makeup of missed loads from the second quarter of flooding and that pretty much completes the recovery of that business.
Tonnage from the Southern Powder River Basin increased 7% with the new business to the Wisconsin utilities again being the primary driver.
With few production issues and strong growth in international shipments Colorado Utah tonnage posted its second consecutive growth quarter up 10%.
That capped solid improvement in the export coal market in 2011.
Our export tons totaled 5.2 million for the year which was up from 1.4 million tons in 2010.
Industrial Products volume was up 7% combined with a 16% improvement in average revenue per car and drove a 24% revenue increase.
Just as our Chemicals business benefits from growth in the shale plays by offering outbound transportation solutions for crude oil our Industrial Products group is well positioned to provide reliable transportation for inbound materials used in drilling like frac sand and steel pipe.
In the fourth quarter that was reflected in 40% growth in nonmetallic mineral shipments which is primarily frac sand and a 9% increase in our steel volume with growth in pipe and steel coils.
Steel also got a boost from continued strengthening of the auto industry.
Metallic mineral shipments increased 73% driven by growth in our iron ore unit train business from Utah to California forts for export to China.
Offsetting some of the strength was a 36 -- 38% decline in hazardous waste volume driven by a reduction in our short haul uranium tailings move for the Department of Energy as government funding was reduced after the stimulus money ran out.
On Slide 11 our Intermodal volume grew 13% as the 16% improvement in average revenue per unit more than offset a 3% decline in volume.
The lower volume was driven by the international segment where soft import levels produced a 7% decline.
Also contributing was the continued impact of the contract loss that we won't wrap until May 1.
While the weak international peak season was disappointing the news was better in the domestic segment where highway conversions drove 3% growth.
That topped the previous quarterly volume record that we set at the end of last year.
Last but not least we closed the year with strong performance in our Mutual Commitment Program.
As we discussed last quarter we were able to provide customers participating in the program with all their needed box capacity throughout the domestic peak.
So that pretty much wraps up 2011.
I'm going to turn focus here now to 2012 starting with Global Insight's most recent economic projections which reflect the continuation of a relatively slow growing economy.
GDP is expected to be a little stronger in 2011 but industrial production growth will be a little slower.
Vehicle sales are pegged at $13.5 million which is about where they came in in the fourth quarter so that seems pretty reasonable to us.
We entered 2012 once again looking for some signs of recovery in the housing industry.
And time will tell whether this is the year where we finally start to see some signs of life there.
Imports and exports are expected to grow more slowly this year.
And even with some projected improvement continued high unemployment adds uncertainty to the economic outlook.
So with that as a starting point here's how we see 2012 volume growth shaping up in our major markets on Slide 13.
Our diverse franchise gives us a number of markets where we're expecting solid growth.
The top of the list are minerals and petroleum which should continue to outpace the economy driven by the opportunity in shale energy to move both inbound materials and outbound products.
We continue to see Intermodal as a long-term growth driver and in 2012 great service should bring new highway conversions in the domestic segment.
Automotive volume should continue to grow as the industry's recovery continues.
Prospects for growth in non-Powder River Basin coal look good with improved production in international demand boosting the Colorado Utah segment.
Metals opportunities also look good in 2012.
While the expected increase in housing starts small though it is should also give a boost to our lumber business.
We also think that fertilizer and LPG should see solid growth.
You can also see the markets where we expect more moderate growth and those where we actually expect slow growth at best with the latter top by the Southern Powder River Basin coal and International Intermodal.
The SPRB outlook is dampened by a couple of contract losses in 2011 including one small legacy deal that went to the competition.
We'll lap the startup of the Wisconsin utility that fueled this year's growth and we have a few utilities that are telling us they're going to have somewhat softer demand this year.
Of course with our Energy business a lot really depends on the summer burn.
So we could have some upside if the summer really heats up.
For International Intermodal with an uncertain economy we're actually taken pretty conservative approach to the volume prospects in 2012.
So as we look out over the coming year our strong value proposition's going to again support our business development and underpin our growth.
I mentioned the one legacy energy contract loss in 2011 but we successfully repriced over 90% of the $1 billion of legacy business we competed for.
So that provides a solid foundation for our 2012 pricing plan.
As a result we expect increases in volume will combine with pricing gains to drive profitable revenue growth.
So with that I'll turn it over to Lance.
Thank you Jack.
I'll start with safety.
Our reportable personal injury rate was a record low in 2011.
Training process improvements and capital investments combined to reduce our environmental and behavioral risks.
I'm particularly encouraged by a steep reduction in severe injuries that have the greatest human and financial impact.
Regarding rail equipment incidents or derailments our full year reportable rate increased 10%.
Increases in mainline track incidents which were driven by weather and human factor derailments were partly offset by a decrease in yard and industry-lead derailments.
In public safety the grade crossing accident rate improved 9% versus 2010 and tied 2009's best ever performance.
We closed 269 at-grade crossings on the UP system during the year and our community and driver-focused approach to grade crossing safety continued to generate long-term improvement.
While I am very pleased to report 2 of 3 safety measures at all-time record lows our ultimate goal is to eliminate all safety incidents.
Moving onto UP's network performance.
Last quarter I noted the negative impact that Midwest flooding and the Texas drought had on our operation.
We forecasted a return to normal by the end of the year which is exactly what happened.
We fully recovered our service capability by using a mix of surge resources alternative routes and aggressive maintenance work.
As a result velocity climbed to average 25.6 miles per hour in the fourth quarter 25.9 miles per hour in December and is well over 26.5 miles an hour so far in January.
We're well positioned for growth with about 1 000 employees furloughed and around 600 locomotives in long-term storage which includes about 250 units ready for surge utilization.
The value of surge resources was demonstrated yet again in 2011 helping us maintain fluidity and service in the face of major network disruptions.
Slide 17 illustrates our fourth quarter service and efficiency performance.
Starting at the upper left.
The condition of our network has literally never been better.
In 3 years we've reduced slow order miles by over 60% enhancing customer service and generating capacity to support volume growth.
Gross ton-miles per employee accelerated from the first 3 quarters to finish 2% better than 2010 despite the impact of more than 700 additional employees working on capital projects or positive train control.
Moving to the lower left train size improved in the fourth quarter with record fourth quarter manifest and Intermodal train lengths.
Intermodal train size grew despite a decrease in the fourth quarter intermodal volumes compared to 2010.
In the lower right our service scorecard illustrates UP's customer value proposition.
We absorbed the 3% carload increase and weather disruptions while maintaining a solid Service Delivery Index.
The local operating teams continue to build the fundamental elements of great service as reflected by industry spot and pull which tied for an all-time best fourth quarter at 94%.
As Jack discussed manifest traffic grew dramatically in 2011 driven by increased industrial products and chemical shipments.
While all regions experienced an increase in manifest volume the southern region absorbed about half the growth.
The Union Pacific franchise is well suited for this business with excellent route density and terminal infrastructure.
We've leveraged our terminal assets while absorbing the new volume which is reflected here as an increase in the number of cars switched per man day.
The ability to handle the current shift in traffic emphasizes our network strength.
It's a shared resource it's well positioned to support each of the 6 business groups.
Capital investment keeps the network strong and adds new capacity where we can generate attractive returns on the new volume.
For 2012 our capital plan totals around $3.6 billion.
More than half of that is replacement spending to harden the infrastructure making the network safe and resilient.
Spending for service growth and productivity will total over $1.3 billion.
Capacity commercial facilities and equipment are the primary drivers.
Major projects include additional double track on the Sunset Corridor as well as the Blair project work on the Santa Teresa New Mexico facility and various projects in the south to support our diverse book of business including the growth in energy exploration and production that Jack mentioned.
We're acquiring 200 new road locomotives and close to 1 800 freight cars which includes covered hoppers gondolas and new AutoFlex auto racks which were designed and are being built by a UP car shop.
These equipment acquisitions not only serve as replacements for older assets but also to meet expected business growth.
In addition to our investments for growth and efficiency we plan to spend about $335 million on positive train control this year.
We originally estimated a capital spend of $1.4 billion through 2015 when PTC was first mandated.
After 3 years into the project and with significant software hardware and systems development remaining we now think the price tag for Union Pacific could be in the $2 billion range.
Through 2011 we've invested nearly $400 million of the $2 billion projected spend.
The 2015 implementation date poses some pretty big challenges for us and the industry.
That being said we are making a good faith effort to meet the 2015 deadline while pacing capital based on proven technology.
In summary I feel very good about the outlook for 2012.
We are well positioned for another record safety year as we continue to mature our total safety culture strengthen our relationships with local communities and harden the infrastructure.
The network is ready to provide excellent service as volumes grow and we should leverage that growth to the bottom line through increased utilization of existing assets.
And we are going to invest a record amount of capital to support the new volume and to alleviate network constraints across the system.
In summary we'll use the 6 critical operating initiatives including the UP way to drive our business up into the right growth with service excellence.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
We'll start by summarizing our fourth quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 16% to an all-time quarterly record of $5.1 billion driven by fuel surcharge recoveries core pricing gains and volume growth.
Operating expense totaled $3.5 billion increasing 13% compared to 2010.
Higher fuel prices drove over half of the expense increase.
Operating income totaled $1.6 billion a 23% increase and a best-ever quarterly record.
Other income totaled $54 million in the quarter up $45 million compared to 2010.
Higher income from real estate sales and increased cost in 2010 due to a settlement on an environmental site drove the year-over-year increase.
Interest expense of $141 million was essentially flat versus the previous year.
Income tax expense increased $566 million.
Higher pretax earnings and an unusually low income tax rate in 2010 drove the increase.
Net income totaled $964 million a quarterly best up 24% versus 2010.
Earnings per share grew 28% to an all-time record of $1.99 per share.
The outstanding share balance declined 2% reflecting our share repurchase activity.
Turning to our top line.
Freight revenue grew 16% to a fourth quarter record of $4.8 billion.
Carloadings were up 3%.
We also saw a positive mix impact driven by strong growth in higher average revenue per car moves.
We achieved core pricing gains of 5% which includes RCAF fuel escalators.
And as Jack just mentioned we've been successful with the legacy renewals which drove a small uptick in our pricing numbers in the fourth quarter.
Fuel surcharge revenue added 6% to the top line driven by higher fuel prices in the quarter versus 2010.
Slide 24 illustrates our solid pricing and productivity gains in 2011.
We closed out the year on a high note with an incremental margin of 59% after adjusting for higher fuel prices.
Our reported number of 44% also topped previous quarters in 2011 generated by strong core business operation.
As Slide 25 shows our compensation and benefits expense was up 4% compared to 2010 another good news story for us.
Inflationary pressures that we previously discussed drove a 4.5% increase in cost.
Volume-related expenses were offset with solid productivity gains.
And as Lance mentioned we leveraged the volume growth very efficiently in the quarter.
Other factors also worked in our favor including a very mild weather condition.
And as expected the number of new hires in the training pipeline was flat compared to 2010 thus not a driver of our year-over-year expense increase in the quarter.
Consistent with our previous guidance workforce levels increased 3% in the quarter compared to 2010.
Base business activity contributed to about half of the growth while increased capital work including positive train control drove the remaining increase.
In 2012 we expect another year of attrition in the 8% to 10% range.
We'll continue to hire new employees to backfill for attrition and to support volume growth.
And as volumes grow we expect our overall workforce levels to increase but not at a one-for-one rate.
Compensation and benefits expense will also increase in 2012 but will depend upon volume growth.
On the positive side labor inflation should moderate from the 4% to 5% range that we saw last year and training costs should not be a year-over-year driver as it was in 2011.
Slide 26 shows fuel expense which totaled $935 million increasing $248 million versus 2010.
The average diesel fuel price was $3.16 per gallon which increased 28% year-over-year.
Drivers included an average barrel price of $94 which increased 10% and a $17 per barrel increase in the conversion spread.
A 5% increase in gross ton-miles and a 1% increase in our fuel consumption rate also drove higher fuel expense.
Purchased Services &amp; Materials expense increased 9% or $41 million to $508 million.
Higher cost for contract services and equipment maintenance were the primary drivers.
Also crew lodging and transportation costs increased with the growth in volume.
Other expense came in at $191 million which was better than our previous guidance.
We again saw lower-than-expected personal injury expense reflecting positive experience from our continued safety gain.
Versus 2010 other expenses were up $18 million resulting from higher property taxes and lease buyout expenses.
In 2012 the other expense line will continue to be challenged with higher property taxes and volume-related expenses.
We're also facing tough year-over-year comps in our personal injury expense.
Slide 28 summarizes fourth quarter expenses for the remaining 2 categories.
Depreciation expense increased 9% to $413 million in line with our guidance.
Increased capital spending and volume growth drove the increase.
Looking at 2012 we expect depreciation expense to grow at a rate similar to the 2011 levels.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $289 million up from 2010 due to increased short-term freight car rental expense and higher contract lease costs.
Lower locomotive lease expense partially offset this increase.
Union Pacific's operating ratio on Slide 29 reflects the substantial improvements in profitability that we've achieved over the last several years.
On a reported basis our operating ratio was a fourth quarter record of 68.3%.
Ongoing productivity efforts core pricing gains and volume growth all contributed to this mark more than offsetting the negative fuel price impact of nearly 1 point versus 2010.
On a full year basis our operating ratio was 70.7% only slightly behind our all-time 2010 record of 70.6%.
We achieved real improvement this year nearly offsetting the negative year-over-year fuel price impact of about 1.7 point.
Looking forward we remain committed to achieving our operating ratio target of 65% to 67% by 2015.
Slide 30 provides a summary of our 2011 earnings and a full year income statement.
I'll walk through a few of the highlights from our record setting year.
Operating revenue achieved an all-time record of $19.6 billion.
Operating income also set a new best-ever mark of over $5.7 billion topping 2010's record by 15%.
And net income of $3.3 billion and earnings of $6.72 per share also set new historic annual record.
Union Pacific's profitability in 2011 also drove record free cash flow after dividends.
Increased cash from operations more than offset the higher capital spending of nearly $700 million and increased cash dividends of $235 million.
We continue to see the benefits of bonus depreciation which created a $450 million tailwind in 2011 versus 2010.
This year that benefit will be significantly lower due to the catch-up of prior year's program and a reduced rate of 50% bonus depreciation in 2012 from the 100% mark in 2011.
Our balance sheet remains strong supporting our investment grade credit rating.
At year end 2011 the adjusted debt-to-cap ratio was 40.7%.
There's some timing in this number since we accelerated around $475 million of debt maturities from the first part of 2012 into 2011 which we will likely refinance sometime this year.
Slide 32 shows our full year 2011 capital investment of $3.2 billion slightly below our targeted investment of $3.3 billion.
And as Lance discussed our preliminary capital plan for 2012 is around $3.6 billion up from 2011 but consistent with our guidance of 17% to 18% of revenue over the next several years.
Increased spending on locomotives and positive train control are the major drivers.
We'll also be spending more on capacity projects but less on equipment purchases given that we're not planning on buying any containers this year.
Slide 32 also reflects our achievements in generating returns on these investments.
Return on invested capital was a record 12.4% in 2011 up 1.6 points versus 2010.
Returns must continue to improve to support the significantly higher asset replacement costs and investments required to achieve our safety service and growth initiatives.
Our performance in 2011 generated record cash and we're returning that to our shareholders.
For 2011 dividends per share increased a total of 58% a significant step toward achieving our target declared payout ratio of 30%.
In the fourth quarter we bought back close to 3.9 million shares totaling $381 million.
For 2011 our share repurchases totaled $1.4 billion.
Looking forward we have nearly 28 million shares remaining under our current authorization.
So with that we've wrapped up a record-breaking year in 2011.
But now we're focused on 2012 and the tremendous opportunities that we see before us.
For 2012 we're targeting record full year operating ratio performance.
We believe there are continued opportunities for volume growth and pricing gains as Jack highlighted earlier.
Of course the economy will play a determining role.
And we remain focused on continued productivity gains which will provide additional leverage capabilities and further drive operating efficiencies.
Our prospects for 2012 supported by Union Pacific's strong value proposition position us to take advantage of the unique opportunities offered by our diverse franchise.
2012 should also be another record year for earnings allowing us to reward our shareholders with even greater returns.
With that I'll turn it back to Jim.
Thanks Rob.
And before I wrap up I want to provide a quick update on National Labor negotiations.
As many of you know 10 of the 13 unions have ratified agreements and 2 of the 3 remaining unions have tentative agreements out to their members for vote.
The Brotherhood of Maintenance Way Employees is the only union without an agreement.
The industry is making every effort to reach an agreement before the cooling-off period ends in February 8.
We're making progress and are committed to getting a deal done.
Now when you think about our financial outlook for this year our outstanding 2011 performance clearly sets the stage.
The bar has been raised in terms of future expectations and I believe our prospects have never looked better.
Economic indicators generally point to slow continued growth in 2012.
Excellent service though is the key to our future success supporting our customer value proposition and helping us drive increased productivity.
Our capital investment strategy will be another key part of UP's success making investments today building capacity for tomorrow.
We believe very strongly in the opportunities to grow our financial returns in the future.
So with that let's open it up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jason Seidl Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
When you break down your volume growth potential you have solid moderate and slow to negative can you give us sort of a range what you consider a moderate growth is at sort of the 2% to 3% and solids 3% or above? Yes Jason.
We've -- we're obviously not giving specific numbers on those.
And -- I mean if you look back in time you can kind of get some feel for the way some of these commodities grow.
And we'll -- I think you're going to continue to see in growth kind of what we've seen this year good consistent growth but on a slow basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when I look at your 5% growth on the core pricing obviously.
There is some of that RCAF in there.
Could you talk what it would look like x RCAF and what was the timing like in terms of the renewals on your legacy business? Did they happen earlier in the quarter or later in the quarter or they're evenly spread out? Jack do you want to take that or Rob? Let me start with the maybe the first part of that question Jason in terms of the RCAF impact.
It's about 0.5 point on our pricing and that's been fairly consistent throughout 2011.
I would also say Jason as we go through the process of continuing to renegotiate and renew and compete for these legacy deals that RCAF component becomes a lesser piece of the pie for us in terms of how it influences our escalations.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the timing of the legacy? Go ahead again Jason.
What was your question? LLC Research Division</strong> No I'm saying that the timing of the legacy for the quarter was it evenly spread out as you renegotiate the legacy deals in 4Q? Or was it sort of more in the beginning of the quarter? We have some of the $1 billion from last year included some for this year.
So we've got that completed and it's behind us.
The remainder of our legacy deals for 2013 are going to be at the end of this year.
Jason this is Rob again.
In the fourth quarter most of what you saw on the renewals were back-end loaded in the quarter.
Our next question is from the line of Tom Wadewitz of JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> On the pricing as a point of a lot of interest in 2012.
I guess I look at -- and I think simple logic could be core price that you had in first 3 quarters of this year without much legacy with 4.5%.
I think that you've commented in the past that kind of strong legacy pricing maybe you can get 2 points a year in a relatively good year.
So if I look at 2012 I think you fairly easily get to 6.5 as kind of a low end.
And maybe above that in terms of the core price I'm sure you don't want to be specific but is that appropriate logic or am I missing something in terms of thinking about core price in 2012? Well Tom we're not going to confirm your numbers.
I would be a little bit careful on how high you move it up here.
Remember some of these agreements have pricing phased in over time.
You get some mix effect in here but it will be a good year for us.
I mean we said we were legacy light in 2011.
We have been successful as Jack said renegotiating about 90% of the legacy deals.
So it should be a pretty good year for us this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the follow-up.
Rob if I recall on your fourth quarter 2010 conference call you had -- I think it was probably 5 or 6 discrete items training costs state taxes depreciation accrue -- casualty accrual a bunch of different things that were cost headwinds in 2011.
It sounds like maybe depreciation's still at a -- growing at a fairly strong rate.
But is it fair to think that your inflation is at a pretty -- a lot lower rate in your cost side in 2012? And I guess other than depreciation are there other things to be aware of? Yes a couple of points I would make Tom.
Recall that labor inflation coming into the year we said for 2011 would be -- and it was in that 4% to 5% range.
We think the labor inflation will moderate below that as I said earlier.
You're right depreciation is a bit of a headwind as you point out.
The other item I would call to your attention is other expense.
And as you know there's a lot of items in there.
But one cost pressure we know we're going to face in 2012 in the other line is going to be our property taxes which again are driven by higher earnings and volume-related costs or some volume-related cost are in that category as well.
Plus we do face some fairly challenging comps year-over-year in our personal injury expense line.
So those will be the challenges that I would point out at this point.
Research Division</strong> But it -- but you think it's fair to say cost inflation overall is less of an issue than 2011? Yes that's a fair statement.
Our next question is from the line of Walter Spracklin of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just curious on the legacy repricing in terms of retention.
Obviously some of this was as competitive business.
Can you give us a sense of how much of that legacy that you did in November December was successfully retained by you guys? Jack? Well what we said was over 90% has been repriced and I don't think we're going to get into very specific deals but I think that's a fairly good number for you.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay now that's great.
Just looking at your capital structure.
I think you've been trending down to about a 40% adjusted debt-to-total cap.
And just curious I know you're going to refi a little bit this year.
How are you looking at that? I mean can give us a sense of what your target level is? And presumably you'll use your share buyback for any excess cash that you're generating now.
You're getting really north of 12% on your ROIC? Any extra cash that you're generating assuming outside of the dividends would be going into that share buyback.
Is that a fair statement? Rob? Yes Walter a couple of things.
One as we've said before and as you point out there was some timing in our -- because we're full ahead on the financing item.
But we are comfortable being in that low 40s debt-to-cap ratio.
So we don't have a specific set number target that I would share with you other than to say we are comfortable in that range.
In terms of what we're going to do with cash I think it's similar to what you saw us do this year.
As you heard Lance talk number one we're increasing our capital spend and we've increased our dividend.
We want to continue to stay in that 30% payout ratio and continue to be opportunistic with share repurchases going forward.
And that's how we're approaching it.
Our next question is from the line of Justin Yagerman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to dig in a little bit.
I know that petroleum was one of the high-growth areas.
Could you talk a little bit about the experiences that you're seeing in these shale projects right now? How much of it is being served by unit trains? And besides Eagle Ford and Bakken are there others behind that that are starting to be developed that we should be aware of? Jack? Yes Justin when you look at it only about I would say 25% to 30% of our business is moving in unit trains today but we're still actually in that start-up mode.
So moving a lot in manifest and we're shifting more towards unit trains and you'll see that trend continue as we work our way here through 2012.
Clearly the Bakken was the largest proportion of our business this year in terms of the crude oil.
Eagle Ford started up which was nice for us.
We'll also this year be moving Permian Basin and hopefully out of the Niobrara as kind of the big ones.
Research Division</strong> Great.
It seems like it's a nice piece of growth business for you guys.
I wanted to dig in a little bit on the Powder River Basin and International Intermodal.
Calling those out as areas of softness is it just the legacy contract in Southern Powder River Basin that gives you any kind of concern in terms of your growth rates this year or are there other environmental issues that you're worried about? We had a stay with Casper but we'll find out more I guess later this year.
And then on the international side you called out being a little cautious on the weak or the uncertain economy.
As we look out at that you lapped the customer loss as you said in May is there a reason to believe that the back half could be better there than the first half? Yes.
In terms of coal Powder River Basin in particular kind of the way I think about it that might be helpful for you Justin is I take what I -- with the contracts that I lost and I lay that against the contracts that I've gained the new business and also some incremental international business that's about a wash.
That's about a breakeven for me.
So when I look at coal business going forward I'm looking right now at a very very mild winter.
I'm looking at stockpiles that are growing in November.
The Powder River Basin stockpiles matched where they should be for normal.
And since then the winter weather has been relatively mild.
So there's not much burn going on.
So I see a stockpile issue burning or building for us that we need to work our way through.
And then we have a couple of customers that have told us to expect somewhat lower demand and that was tied to some of the environmental regulations.
Although now with staying of Casper I think the jury is out as to just how much that will play.
I think the bigger factor for us hands down is how hot is it going be this summer.
So if the mild winter translates into a very very hot summer we should be okay.
The other one is the low natural gas prices that are out there.
That's not a real big impact for us right at the moment.
But of course you could always watch that and just see -- I mean if you saw -- I suppose if you saw natural gas prices go down to $2 and actually stay there we could see some of the merchant plants lose some business to the grid.
But typically gas is not a big negative factor for us in our served territory.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the International Intermodal? On the International Intermodal we had no peak season to speak of this year.
And we've watched inventory ratios the inventory-to-sales ratios we kept expecting them to see some build it never happened.
There's the potential there but there's also some questions as to just how aggressive will the retail sales be and how does that all play itself out.
So we're just looking at it and saying we're going to plan for something that's kind of a repeat of what we saw last year.
Yes it could be a little stronger for us in the second half.
We will wrap that contract loss on May 1.
So we'll see kind of a stronger second half but we're not just seeing a lot of enthusiasm for a real real strong international peak season again next year.
So that's kind of how we forecasted it.
Research Division</strong> And there's nothing related to the APL contract or is there? Not that I can say.
Justin the real wildcard here is where do you think the consumer will come play out next year? Housing actually has can have a pretty big impact on International Intermodal.
There's some positive signs there.
So we're -- it's really bet on how you think the economy consumer will play during the year.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Hoexter with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on the coal for a minute.
You mentioned on the domestic the softness on -- you're seeing on the PRB.
You also threw in there on the export side you went from 1 million to 5 million tons.
Can you talk about your expectations for coal demand on a global basis and where are you moving that and your growth plans for that? I think overall Ken we're looking at the world demand and saying "It's going to continue." It could be choppy.
You see prices ebb and flow from time to time that might cause some.
But overall we still see world demand growing and creating a great export opportunity for us.
We had 5.2 million tons up from I think what did I say 1.4 million last year.
We'll do better than that again this year.
We'll continue to see growth in that marketplace for us and it will -- our primary focus right out of the box is for the bituminous coal out in Colorado and Utah because that's where the world demand seems -- the higher energy coal is more in demand than the SPRB.
But we're all over SPRB opportunities as well.
We're scouring every port potential every opportunity that we get we're working with the mines.
And we see that as a continuing to develop as a good opportunity for us.
And Ken keep in mind though UP shipped total tonnage last year was about 250 million tons.
So we're talking about an export market of 5 million.
It's again it's not a huge base for us.
It will again as we think to the future will also offer some consistent growth.
But it is not the main driver of our coal business.
Research Division</strong> No I recognize that but it's just we've been seeing obviously some metcoal cutback announcements lately.
And it's a positive sign that you're expecting that to grow into 2012.
Well we're in different markets.
Research Division</strong> Meaning who you're serving? Well the metcoal that's not a big player for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you provide any thoughts on the magnitude? You noted you kept 90% on the repricing.
Can you provide any thoughts on the magnitude? Somebody threw out before -- you've noted in the past it could add about 2% to pricing.
Is that -- can you comment on the magnitude of what we would expect? Or at this point just based on what you've already renewed? Ken we're not going to get into specifics.
We feel good about what we're able to accomplish.
We lost some business.
I said we're out of the box if we couldn't get the kind of returns we're looking for.
We wouldn't handle it.
And what really helped reinforce it for us is the great service and value we're providing to customers.
There's no surprise that there are substantial price increases in many of those but we also heard very clearly about the value proposition coming through.
So again we don't get individual discussions on them.
It was -- feel pretty darn good about what we accomplished this year.
Research Division</strong> One last one.
Just Rob threw out that he expected the injury expenses to climb.
Is there some driver of that because Lance started off talking about how safety had improved so much just wondering why the conflicting statements? Yes this is Rob.
We don't expect the injury expenses to climb.
What I was pointing out is that year-over-year because of the sizable reductions in expenses in 2011 that just creates a difficult comp for us.
We have every expectation that we'll continue to improve our safety performance and continue to improve the expense perhaps just not at the same rate.
It won't be a negative.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Maybe if I could start just on a question on PTC.
What's the key driver primarily of the increase that you're seeing over your last projection? And kind of how should we think about layering that in from a timing perspective? You've given us the run rate through 2012 but how do we think about beyond that through 2015? Lance? Sure.
Let's start with the drivers.
So recall that PTC when it was mandated was not an off-the-shelf technology.
So what you're seeing reflected is exactly what I mentioned in my comments.
And that is as we develop both the hardware the software and the overall systems technology we're discovering more complexity more interactions and it's more costly.
So the reflection of going from $1.4 billion to $2 billion is mostly about technology development and getting a more finite cost on that.
So then looking forward by the mandate we've accelerated spending in 2012 to this anticipated $335 million.
I anticipate there could be modest acceleration from that point in future years.
But it'll be predicated on having developed technology to implement.
So spending is going to be paced somewhat by making sure the technology's developed.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And I guess that kind of goes into the idea of ultimate timing for 2015 implementation I mean any sense of leeway around the timing? I mean there has to be some discussions? I'm guessing you guys are working towards the '15 goal but how do you think about that from a realistic perspective? Well Chris the industry you have a key report due to Congress on March 1.
That -- obviously the FRA will be required to report on the status.
I'll be very honest with you I just -- I don't see it happening in 2015 the complexity that we're faced with here the requirements.
I mean keep in mind if the system doesn't work you don't move product.
And that's why when we look at implementing this thing it's got to have a very very high degree of reliability.
And you have no room to get it wrong.
So keep your eye out on the report that goes to Congress here on March 1.
Research Division</strong> Great that's very very helpful.
And then just one final follow-up.
Just on the headcount side when you think about kind of the inflationary rate.
I know you said it was going to step down Rob when you think about it for 2012? And what's the order of magnitude we should expect? Is it somewhere in the neighborhood of kind of 3-ish percent or is it a little harder to tell? At this point in time it's harder to tell just less than that 4% that I indicated.
Yes and that's -- if I can just Chris on that that's on inflation.
The inflation rate in our labor line I'm saying is going to less than 4%.
The headcount net-net that will depend upon where volumes end up.
And as I said we expect volumes to be a steady slow growth.
So we'd expect headcount to increase but at a less than one-for-one rate.
Our next question is from the line of Matt Troy with Susquehanna International Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on the Casper issue.
Obviously it was stayed but it's something that's not going away.
We can all track the weather I guess for the next coming months and keep our fingers crossed.
But I was wondering the longer-term implications of this environmental regulation you kind of see the chessboard shaping up.
Is it a net positive for UNP or let's call it an immediate term in the PRB coal can bridge some of the less viable Central App coal? Are you getting inquiries to that effect? Or just help me think about the impact to your franchise specifically as you sketch out the roadmap over the next 3 to 5 years of the Casper rig? Matt when you look at it I do actually look at it as a potential opportunity for UP and Southern Powder River Basin coal because the coal will be more amenable to meeting those standards.
I think we probably were getting some inquiries about moving coal particularly to the east with the stay.
It's probably dead right at the moment.
And I think the other question in a lot of our customers' minds is just the emission credits and what value will be assessed to them by the market and how does that play itself out.
So a lot of questions that are out there but it does present an opportunity I think for UP.
And the other side of it is both in terms of moving limestone and also trona as a couple of different approaches towards reaching those requirement levels would also be a good business opportunity for us.
LLLP Research Division</strong> All right thanks.
And my second question or follow-up would be just the earlier timing of the Chinese New Year kind of in a rough patch here we've been destocking for several months.
And now everything shuts down for 2 weeks.
You get about a 3-week lag before things can get here from Asia.
So you were talking about the end of March before you could see a noticeable pick-up just from an economic perspective.
Always interested in your guys' economic read.
You cited some numbers but everyone seems to be basing a lot of their hopes on just I guess just that hope.
But are you actually hearing from customers and any pocket of the business you serve and intentions to restock? Or is it just more hope that we've bottomed and hope that things get better? Or is the rubber actually hitting the proverbial road? Yes Matt this is Jim.
Maybe it's the new year you always have more hope coming into it.
But I'd say our perspective in meeting with customers we're just with one of our very large customers here a couple days ago.
They're a little more bullish.
Now it varies by industry.
The auto industry today they're feeling much better than they were.
There's still long ways from where they were in the peak but that could be a pretty good year.
You look at some of the areas where you're still significantly off from recession.
Take the -- anything related to construction.
In fact I don't -- I can't remember if we said it or not.
Well we had a little bit of an increase in our lumber shipments this year.
Or in 2011 we're still 60% below where we were in the peak.
So when you think about housing some of the construction it's a little more positive this year.
So again though I think it still all fits into the perspective of we will see positive growth it will be something kind of the slow side.
Our next question is from the line of Bill Greene with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Rob I just want clarification on -- you reiterated your long-term margin guidance the OR targets.
Just to clarify those are not the adjusted numbers that you're referring to right? These include fuel and everything not sort of the adjusted for fuel numbers? That's right.
The 65% to 67% operating ratio full year all in by 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the fourth quarter obviously seasonally weak but a really good OR nonetheless.
Can we -- is there a way we should think about -- while the weather maybe was a little bit easier this quarter or was a little bit harder last quarter or last year is there anything to keep that in mind that sort of -- not really onetime but sort of unusual? I don't think -- we were still dealing with issues down south at the beginning of the quarter.
You bet it was a little bit better weather wise for us but that wasn't the difference maker.
And at the end of day here we really -- a couple of things to keep in mind.
We cycled some of the cost.
Remember Rob we're talking about training -- we got to employ  productivity.
We've been telling you all year that we had really kind of a one-off deal where we're building our training forces.
That leveled out fourth quarter and you had decent volume that came through.
We managed our costs very well.
Our pricing came in strong.
You put those all those together and boy it can really lever that operating ratio.
Research Division</strong> Yes absolutely.
Jim or Jack just I'm curious your perspective on what's going on when we see contracts go back and forth between the competition.
It sort of suggests there's more horsetrading that goes on in the west than perhaps other regions? And I'm not quite sure why.
If you guys are willing to walk but the competition isn't does that suggest a more aggressive pricing dynamic from them? How do we think about this? Bill we compete we compete hard.
And a lot of factors come into play when you look at your decision points.
It can be the routes the capability you have the efficiency by corridor or long-term relationships you have.
I don't like that word horsetrading because it really is one we compete hard.
And I'm sure the other guys would tell you the same thing that they have some internal dynamics.
They look at where's the point to walk from.
So again we've had some very tough discussions with our customers in some cases.
But the key for us Jack just said we renegotiated successfully 90% this year of those legacy deals.
An absolute key is how the customer views value from its provider.
And I will tell you I've felt very good that we're in the legacy discussions -- negotiations when you also look at we have the best customer service in the history of our company.
Our next question is from the line of John Larkin of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rob talked about the incremental margins looking very very good in the quarter.
And that sort of raised the question in my mind of how sustainable that is in terms of how much capacity you think you have on your existing manifest trains and the Intermodal trains where you can fill those trains out and really drive that strong incremental margin going forward.
Well at the end of the day for us to continue to improve the operating ratio we've got to improve our margins right on the incremental side.
I would be careful on a quarterly number.
I mean I kind of go round and round with my CFO on this in terms of -- I know you guys like to look at the quarterly numbers.
But there are a lot of factors that come into play.
But the bottom line if we are going to get to the operating ratio targets that we've provided those margins have to improve.
Rob go ahead? Yes just a comment I would make on that John.
What we've said if that 65% to 67% target implies we've got to do about a 50% incremental margin improvement and it will be lumpy as Jim says.
I think one point I would make is remember our first quarter generally is our toughest most challenged from an operating ratio standpoint.
And second and third tend to be our best.
So you get lumpiness within the quarter but on an annualized basis it's at 50% is our expectation.
And that's what we have to do to hit that target.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then as a follow-on we talked about earlier the notion of labor inflation may be coming in a little bit below 4.
I'm guessing the overall cost inflation isn't going be too much different than that x fuel.
I've heard Jim before talk about how much he challenges the managers at UP to sort of offset that inflation with productivity.
Is there any kind of guidance you can give us in terms of what the objective is there? How much of that 4% plus or minus can be offset with additional productivity in technology applications? Well John I believe -- we talked before.
I mean we set a goal offsetting all of inflation.
Now realistically about half of it I think you can sustain over time.
And it's going be a function of  technology it's going to be a function of process improvement.
It's going be a function of leveraging volume and operations.
So I don't think that's unrealistic at a minimum offset half of your inflation number.
Our next question is from the line of Cherilyn Radbourne of TD Securities.
A lot of questions have already been asked so I'm just going to ask one.
Your Mutual Commitment Program was a pretty big change in terms of your go-to-market approach.
And you commented that your own performance has been very good.
Could you just comment on customer receptivity and how that's evolved through the year? Jack? Sure.
We started off the year customers kind of were -- kind of looking at it and looking at the change and trying to determine whether or not they should or shouldn't participate.
So we kind of got off to a slow start.
As we got into peak season though we were right on with every commitment that we made during peak.
We offered customers 110% of their committed volumes and we were able to meet every commitment.
So we came out of the peak season with some very favorable comments from customers and a lot more receptivity to the program.
So we're anxious.
We will definitely stay the course here and continue to work the program for 2012 and beyond.
Our next question is from the line of Gary Chase of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if I could get Lance or Rob or both to just help us think a little bit about the leverage you obviously saw in the comp and ben line for 4Q.
It's pretty unusual for that to be down sequentially in dollars and also on a per head basis and both of those things happened this time.
Just wondering if you could help us think through what some of the key drivers? And I know you mentioned a few possibilities things like the training cost falling out.
I was wondering if that had already started? Also Lance the growth you pointed to in the manifest network perhaps that's where you're really getting the leverage and that was an enabler.
And I guess of course most important is about the sustainability of those trends.
Should we expect to see favorable comparisons on that cost per head basis as we look forward? Rob why don't you start and Lance you can...
Let me just give you -- kind of size the numbers and then maybe Lance can give some technicolor on some of the initiatives.
Remember coming into 2011 particularly in the back half we said that that was going to be unusually high.
And it was unusually high as we had more people in the pipeline if you will in terms of training.
So we had that comp.
And as we came in to 2000 -- back half of 2011 we said that we thought the fourth quarter would be a catch-up if you will.
So we experienced that.
So we had fewer people in the hiring and training pipeline in the fourth quarter particularly when you look at it year-over-year.
And I'd say that was really what drove the financial variance that you're pointing out.
In terms of some of the great initiatives that we were doing on the ground or in operation productivity Jack should talk about that.
Yes let's talk about it.
And it kind of gets to the earlier question about train size and other -- what we can think about going forward in terms of incremental productivity.
So we did have a good quarter on train size growth.
We also had a good quarter in terms of improvement in the fluidity of the network.
You saw in one of my charts I showed you improvement in cars switched per man day.
That's pure productivity through our terminals.
And we've got what we call the UP way and downtime initiatives that are using process improvement and direct involvement by the people doing the work to design the work standardize it take out risk and take out waste.
And all of that is helping us drive not only productivity but safety and service at the same time.
And there is plenty more of that left in the network.
Research Division</strong> Is there anyway to sort of parse out the magnitude of contribution maybe for both of those with the training the more significant of the 2.
It sounds like that would carry all the way through at least to the comps where you hit 4Q next year.
I think when you look at the employee count spreads the training piece was a pretty big number year-over-year but they all interplay.
I mean I think one of the keys Lance mentioned we start to see our velocity pick up the fluidity of the network.
I think it just shows you how sensitive these networks are the challenges you have.
So you had a little bit less issues with weather.
You had some of the routes the mix comes into play.
They all really contribute.
And what I think you need to understand we were saying that for 3 quarters.
What you were seeing in the prior quarters was more unusual.
That wasn't the norm.
And when you're looking at a 9% and 10% increase in labor cost year-over-year that isn't sustainable in a business.
And this is an area where I think it's more of a sustainable level that they're seeing in the fourth quarter.
Our next question is from the line of Scott Group with Wolfe Trahan.
So it seems like mix was a nice positive in 2011 and when we think about the initial volume outlook for this year losing some of the legacy business I guess muted expectations for International Intermodal and what seems like stronger carload expectations is it fair to think about mix as being a similar positive in 2012 like it was last year? Jack? I think that overall that's what I would expect.
I think mix should favor us this year.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then in terms of the domestic intermodal outlook and no plans to add containers this year how much volume growth do you think you can get without adding containers? And then I guess it sounds like the plan is to keep capacity tighter it sounds good for pricing.
How do you think about pricing in 2012 on the domestic intermodal side relative to what seemed like pretty healthy increases in 2011? Jack? I think we're continuing our focus on increasing our pricing.
I don't think that's going to change in 2012.
And I think that with great service we have added capacity or available capacity in our box fleet that gets us through the year just fine.
But Scott I think there are other factors external factors.
What do you think is going to happen with capacity in the truckload sector? What's our perspective here in terms of the economy? All those come into play.
We've achieved pretty darn good pricing with really a relatively weak economy.
All those can come into play.
So I would -- when I look at 2000 -- this year if anything there could be potential upside if the economy comes a little bit stronger going forward.
And we're also sometimes -- Scott it wasn't a prolonged period of time but we were sold out on our containers even this year with a relatively weak peak.
So we'll see that happen again next year but we think that the throughput and the better service -- you're not dealing with floods and things like that hopefully.
We'll get a greater turn on that equipment and so we can handle more freight.
That's helpful.
And just last thing real quick what's the latest thoughts on timing to finish Sunset? Well we've got 2/3 finished right now.
We'll do another what do you think Lance? 5%.
About 5% this year.
We're going -- it's really a function of how we're looking at volume and the economy in the next 4 or 5 years.
So again it's still years out.
I'd like to accelerate it.
If I accelerates that says the economy is much stronger and we're much more bullish on the outlook.
But right now when you look at kind of the slow growth economy we're in pretty good shape down there and  want to keep ahead of the curve.
Are you seeing incremental benefits along the way or is it more of a once it's done 4 years from now it's kind of a step-function improvement in productivity? Lance? Yes we do see incremental benefits along the way.
One of them that we don't talk about too much is we're cutting over double-track segments in areas where we have to perform maintenance on the existing single track.
So we've talked historically about this investing for maintainability and that's paying off in spades on the Sunset route.
Our next question is from the line of Ben Hartford of Robert W.
Baird.
Real quick Rob as we think about pension expense in 2012 where did the expense fall out in 2011? I think the expectation was close to $80 million $79 million versus $51 million in '10.
What was the final number for '11? And what should we be thinking about for '12 preliminarily? We would think that the pension expense will be up slightly from 2011's levels.
That $79 million $80 million was in the ballpark? I think that's in the ballpark of what it was.
I don't have the exact number but I think that's in the ballpark.
Good.
And then I guess Jack just thinking about coal volumes.
I know that in 2010 about 18% of your volumes were destined for Eastern U.S.
customers in some form.
How did that trend in 2011? And is that expected to change meaningfully in 2012? Ben I don't think it changed meaningfully in 2011.
And staying the Casper rules and things like that I don't think we'll see a significant change in 2012 either.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Ceraso of Credit Suisse Group.
Research Division</strong> A couple of items it may be for Jim.
Is there any concern Jim that as your returns improve and you posted a record here in the quarter that that starts to impede or weigh on your ability to raise price with customers? Or is there a level at which your returns get so high that you have to start thinking about that? Well I think we're a long ways from that.
Here's my point and you know we spent a lot of time up in Washington talking to members of Congress.
I spent time in front of my customers.
Here's the key we just reported the greatest financial in the history of UP in 2011.
And we just came out and said we announced the single largest capital spend in the history of our company.
They are connected.
And when you think about the replacement cost of assets in the railroad industry the returns have to grow.
And I will tell you if we get into a situation where somebody wants to cap us at the level we're at right now return of capital you will see capital shrink.
The math is pretty simple.
So we're making bets on capital investment today under the assumption that I can continue to grow the return on invested capital.
The other thing is provide great service and value to the customer.
All those things are important.
And I mean I'm not going to kid you we obviously think about it.
But my board has supported me in terms of the capital we're putting in and I think we have a good story to talk with our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to follow-up on headcount you mentioned the high attrition rate still but hiring to backfill that and then keep up with growth although not on a one-for-one.
Can you give us any numbers on what the net increase in heads you expect for 2012? Is it 1% 2% 3%? What's the net headcount? We came up this year up about 3% 1 500.
We finished about 45 000.
Keep in mind though you got a split -- that 1 500 increase was split about 50/50 between capital which includes positive train control and OE.
So as our cap you got 2 things that will drive it.
Volume will drive the OE number next year offset by some productivity.
It won't be 100% offset but the capital spend including PTC should grow that.
So I would tell you at the end of the year assuming our economic outlook plays out you're going to see more people working at railroad this time next year than we did the year earlier.
Ladies and gentlemen we're nearing the end of our allotted time for question and answers.
And we have time for one final question.
That question will be coming from the line of David Vernon of Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a question for Jack.
On the Intermodal side are you getting a little bit of a positive benefit from the faster growth in domestic relative to international? I guess I'm thinking that empty repositioning is a little bit less than the domestic business.
And I just wanted to check and see if that was consistent with your kind of view of the business? Yes the domestic side we had a great fourth quarter on the domestic business record setting so that was good.
It reduces the repositioning.
It would be nice to have the stronger international side as well because there's some nice dovetailing that takes place particularly when they stuff the domestic containers on the West Coast.
But overall yes your assumption is correct.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just a quick follow-up on weather.
I think Jim you mentioned that the weather wasn't a great impact on the record fourth quarter OR.
And I guess I just wanted to kind of make sure I had heard that correctly because I would've thought that the positive impacts on network fluidity slow orders all that kind of fun stuff would have actually kind of been a benefit in the quarter.
Well I didn't say it was a major driver.
Although remember we were still battling issues in Texas starting in the beginning of the first -- of the fourth quarter when you look at...
The Texas drought didn't really go away until October.
Well my only point is there are a lot of factors that drove the operating ratio in the fourth quarter.
The fundamental ones toward -- to me are business our volume our pricing and our productivity.
I will now turn the floor back to Mr.
Jim Young for closing comments.
Well thanks everyone for joining us this morning.
We're looking forward to talking to you again in April.
I hope what you see today with our results is the real capability and potential for the UP network.
So thanks again for joining us.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Union Pacific First Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Jack Koraleski CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you Mr.
Koraleski.
You may begin.
Thanks Rob.
Good morning everybody and welcome to Union Pacific's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With me in Omaha today are Rob Knight our CFO; Lance Fritz our Executive Vice President of Operations; and I also want to introduce Eric Butler in his new role as our Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales.
Now before we get started I want to quickly thank all of you for the support you've expressed for Jim and his family during this time.
I know Jim and the entire company greatly appreciate your thoughts and well-wishes.
So turning to the quarter you can see that Union Pacific delivered record financial results across the board this quarter generating a first quarter earnings milestone of $1.79 per share an increase of 39% compared to 2011.
First quarter record operating revenue operating income and operating ratio performance drove our improved bottom line results.
We're clearly delivering on the benefits of our diverse franchise even as we saw the current coal headwinds start to build in the quarter.
We remain focused on delivering safe efficient high-quality service that creates value for our customers and increased financial returns for our shareholders.
These efforts were recognized with record marks in customer satisfaction and employee safety.
So let's get started this morning and I'll turn it over to Eric Butler.
Thanks Jack and good morning.
Let's start up with a look at customer satisfaction.
For the quarter customer satisfaction came in at 93 a new best-ever mark and up 2 points from first quarter last year.
Along the way we also set a new monthly record as well when he hit 94 both in January and March.
We appreciate this continuing recognition from our customers and our focus in the future is to continue our passion for service and strengthen our value proposition.
This strong value proposition and strengthening in some markets produced volume growth of 1% even as a weak coal market drove a large decline in Energy carloadings.
If you excluded Energy our other 5 businesses grew 5% -- grew 4% during the quarter even with lower demand for grain exports.
Note that with a Leap Day this year buying comparisons got a boost from an extra day of loadings.
Core price improved 5% with all 6 businesses posting gains.
Those price gains combined with an increased fuel coverage and some positive mix resulted in a 12% increase in average revenue per car.
Volume growth and the improved average revenue per car combined to drive freight revenue up 14% to a first quarter record of $4.8 billion.
Let's take a look at each of the groups in a little more detail and heading off with Energy.
Although Energy volume declined 8% a 14% improvement in average revenue per car produced revenue growth of 5%.
We indicated going into this year that with a couple of contract losses growth for the Southern Powder River Basin was expected to be slow to negative.
Our expectation was that new business across our Energy portfolio would help offset those losses.
While business wins and losses play a role volume decline in our Energy business during the quarter was largely the result of a dramatic weakening of demand for coal driven by a near-perfect storm of a very mild winter weather and low natural gas prices that together lowered electrical use in the U.S.
by 4% and electricity generated from coal by 16% during the quarter.
You could see from the chart on the upper left how softening demand has played out in our weekly coal car loadings with the volume shortfall growing as the quarter progressed coming down 19% in March.
The most significant impact has been in the Southern Powder River Basin where tonnage declined for the quarter 8%.
The rapidly changing market conditions are reflected in rising coal stockpiles for which the Powder River Basin were an estimated 17 days above normal in February quite a swing from the level several days below normal as recently as October.
Colorado/Utah tonnage fared better declining 3% as strong international demand and new business helped offset the impacts of utility outages increased use of fuels other than coal by utilities in the Southeast and the mild weather.
Ag Products revenue grew 6% as an 8% improvement in average revenue per car more than offset a 2% decline in volumes.
Ag faces a tough comp against strong export grain volumes through the first half of last year.
As expected with increased world production and higher U.S.
corn and wheat prices our grain exports declined 39% from last year's record first quarter levels.
Growth in other Ag markets helped to partially offset the weakened exports.
Drought damaged crops in the south and shipments to reopen forward ethanol plants contributed to the increased domestic shipments of grain which were up 15%.
Biofuels volume increased 13% as the rising mandate in exports spurned ethanol shipments.
Biodiesel growth continued with strong market demand despite last year's expiration of the tax credit.
Our Food &amp; Refrigerated segment grew 7% with the new business in barley and flour along with growth in import beer leading the way.
Automotive volume increased 15% with the combined 10% improvement in average revenue per car drove up 26% -- drove revenue up 26%.
With the nation's vehicles aging and numerous new models available consumers are driving sales levels higher with the SARs rate hitting $14.5 million for the quarter the highest level since first quarter 2008.
The industry gains came despite rising gas prices which appear to be shifting the mix towards more fuel-efficient vehicles but not deterring overall sales levels.
The auto industry's continued momentum translated into 16% growth in our finished vehicle shipments while parts volume to support the growing production and sales level was up 12%.
Chemicals volume grew 8% which combined with the 7% improvement in average revenue per car produced a 16% revenue increase.
Petroleum products loadings increased 63% driven primarily by the rapid growth in crude oil shipments mostly from the Bakken and Eagle Ford Shale plays to the UP-served terminals at St.
James Louisiana.
A slowly strengthening economy was reflected in improved demand for industrial chemicals which grew 8%; while plastic shipments increased 4%.
Partially offsetting overall strength in Chemicals was the 22% decline in fertilizer driven by soft potash demand that led to temporary shutdowns or reductions at several mines during the quarter.
In industrial products a 10% increase in volume and the 13% improvement in average revenue per car drove revenue growth up 25%.
Energy-related drilling continues to drive strength in Industrial Products with new frac sand origin and destination facilities coming online to support shale development resulting in 36% growth in nonmetallic minerals.
Energy markets along with the auto industry were the key drivers of a 14% increase in steel.
Favorable weather during the quarter allowed unseasonably high construction activity boosting rock shipments 16% and the ramp-up of our iron ore move for export to China drove metallic mineral volume up 48%.
Construction-related volumes are still well below what we would consider normalized.
Once again this quarter some of the strength in other segments was offset by a 51% decline in hazardous waste shipments which have softened as government funded ramped down -- government funding ramped down after the stimulus money ran out.
Intermodal revenue grew 15% as the 13% improvement in average revenue per car -- average revenue per unit combined with a 1% increase in volume.
International Intermodal volume declined 3% with the soft import market and the continued impact of a contract loss which we won't wrap until May 1.
The international volume decline was more than offset by gains in domestic Intermodal where continued growth in high-rate conversions drove volume up 6%.
Let me wrap up with a look ahead at 2012.
External forecasts for the U.S.
economy have improved slightly since the start of the year but the overall outlook still points to a continued slow recovery.
Clearly the biggest challenge to our growth is the significant weakening of coal demand.
With coal stockpiles well above normal near-term prospects for improvement in the domestic market seem low without unseasonably hot weather or a higher price for natural gas.
As a result coal volumes are expected to be down throughout the year.
With normal softening of demand in the mild spring months our second quarter decline is expected to be in the low to mid-teens.
The good news is that our diverse franchise provides a wide range of opportunities for growth that help offset the weakened demand for coal.
Here's a look at what we see across the other groups.
The booming shale Energy market was reflected in the strong growth of our Industrial Products and Chemicals groups during the first quarter and the opportunity should continue to grow.
Shale development and the resulting low natural gas prices also makes U.S.
chemical producers more competitive in the global market.
This should be good news both in 2012 and in the future.
Low feedstock prices have been a significant factor in recently announced expansions by U.S.
plastics producers.
In addition our fertilizer business and potash production are expected to ramp back up.
A number of our construction-related markets also got off to a fast start in Industrial Products but we'll have to see if that momentum carries over into the construction season.
Global Insight is up near full year SARs estimates of 14.2 million vehicles compared to a 13.5 million outlook at the start of the year which should be good news for our Automotive business.
We expect domestic Intermodal growth from continued highway conversions supported by expected market growth and the pricing and capacity benefits of our Mutual Commitment Program.
In International Intermodal we're still cautious and as a result only expect slow growth.
Ag faces a tough comp driven by last year's strong export wheat market.
But as in the first quarter they'll look to offset at least most of that shortfall with opportunities in other markets.
Across all of our businesses our strong value proposition positions us to win new business and grow with existing customers.
Expected increases in volume should combine with price gains to drive revenue growth despite the headwinds in Energy.
With that I'll turn it over to Lance.
Thank you Eric.
Starting with safety our reportable personal injury rate set an all-time record low in the first quarter of 2012 improving 10% from last year.
Training process improvements and capital investments combined to reduce both environmental and behavioral risks.
I'm particularly encouraged by a steep reduction in severe injuries which have the greatest human and financial impact.
Moving to rail equipment incidents or derailments.
Our first quarter reportable rate was a record down 1% from 2011.
An increase in derailments caused by grade-crossing accidents and weather was fully offset by a decrease in most other categories notably those caused by track condition and human factors.
In public safety the grade-crossing accident rate was 28% higher than the first quarter of 2011 despite continued focus on community and driver behavior related to grade-crossing safety.
I remain confident our activities will result in improvement in this measure as the year progresses.
While I'm very pleased to report 2 of 3 safety measures at record lows our ultimate goal is to eliminate all safety incidents.
Before we move on to UP's network performance I want to spend a moment talking about the market shifts we experienced this quarter.
We continued to see a shift in traffic mix towards our manifest and premium business up 5% and 3% respectively with most of the growth occurring in the southern region.
Pulp volumes declined only 4% as an increase in crude oil unit trains partially offset the 8% decline in coal.
We've realigned resources to accommodate these shifting traffic flows.
Car routings were adjusted to leverage available capacity at terminals and we modified train starts to maintain fluid operations and increase local service frequency.
During the quarter we also realigned our employee base and our hiring patterns and repositioned about 200 locomotives from our coal network into other parts of the system.
Our team leveraged the growing manifest business well using the UP's excellent route density and terminal infrastructure to generate a 3% improvement in the number of cars switched per employee day.
And because our network is a shared resource the capital investments we're making in the south to support current growth patterns support other service products like grain shipped to the Gulf ports and premium Intermodal to and from Mexico.
Our agility is reflected in our network performance measures.
Starting in the upper left on Slide 16 train size improved with record first quarter manifest and Intermodal train lengths.
Intermodal train size grew 2% despite a modest 1% increase in Intermodal volumes compared to 2011.
Gross ton-miles per employee declined 1% versus 2011 which includes the productivity headwind of 800 additional employees working on capital projects and PTC.
Excluding those employees GTMs per employee improved about 0.5% with gains in terminals and train size partially offset by increased manifest in local train starts.
Moving to the lower left slow order miles were down almost 30% from last year which was a best-ever record for any quarter.
Our network has significantly improved over the last few years and is in excellent shape.
In the lower right our fuel consumption rate improved by about 2% compared to last year driven by targeted operating practices reduced network variability and a rewards program we call Fuel Masters.
Overall our network is operating well.
Mild weather contributed to more favorable operating conditions this quarter but that is not the complete story behind our solid network performance.
The operating team demonstrated agility by successfully adapting the T-plan locomotives and crews to a rapid shift in mix towards manifest and the south.
In Texas and Louisiana there has been a complete team effort to effectively utilize the existing infrastructure while we build new capacity.
In other areas of the network we took advantage of the warmer climate to continue work on capital projects when we normally would have throttled back creating a modest headwind to network velocity.
Even so velocity remains in that consistent range of 26-plus miles an hour increasing 1% compared to last year.
Compared to 2010 average speed was essentially flat despite a 5% growth in system 7-Day carload volumes.
Our service scorecard illustrates UP's customer value proposition.
The local operating teams continued to build the fundamental elements of great service as reflected by Industry Spot &amp; Pull which hit an all-time best first quarter at 95%.
The first quarter Service Delivery Index which is a measure of how well we are meeting overall customer commitments improved from 2011.
Even as we meet the challenge of handling a carload surge in the south we continue to have capacity for growth.
We have plenty of network capacity in other parts of the system with about 600 employees per load and around 800 locomotives in storage.
To sum it up we remain positive on our operating outlook for 2012 and our ability to achieve continued network improvements on various fronts.
We are well positioned for another record year in safety as we continue to mature our Total Safety Culture strengthen our relationships with local communities and harden the infrastructure.
We continue to provide excellent service providing customers with a value proposition that will enable growth as the economy recovers.
We are well positioned to react to dynamic shifts in volume while generating productivity and we are investing a record amount of capital to alleviate network constraints across the system on projects that generate attractive returns.
In summary we will use the 6 critical operating initiatives including the UP way to achieve growth with service excellence.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
Before I get started I'd like to make everyone aware that the 2011 Fact Book will be available tomorrow morning on the Union Pacific website under the Investors tab.
So with that let's start by summarizing our first quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 14% to an all-time quarterly record of $5.1 billion driven by core pricing gains fuel surcharge recoveries positive mix and volume growth.
Operating expense totaled $3.6 billion increasing 7% compared to last year.
Higher fuel prices contributed to over 1/3 of this increase.
Operating income totaled $1.5 billion a 33% increase and a best-ever first quarter performance.
Other income totaled $16 million up $1 million compared to 2011.
Interest expense of $135 million was down 4% versus last year.
Income tax expense increased to $528 million.
Higher pretax earnings and a higher income tax rate in 2012 drove the 42% increase.
Net income totaled $863 million a first quarter best up 35% versus 2011.
Earnings grew 39% to a first quarter record of $1.79 per share.
The outstanding share balance declined 3% reflecting our share repurchase activity.
Turning to our top line.
Revenue grew 14% to a first quarter record of $4.8 billion.
Carloadings drove a 1% increase.
And we saw an unusually large positive mix impact driven by stronger growth in higher average revenue per car move such as the shale-related shipments versus Intermodal traffic.
Fuel surcharge revenue added nearly 5% to our top line growth driven by higher fuel prices and improved fuel surcharge coverage.
Our focus on improving fuel recovery in recently negotiated legacy contracts generated a meaningful step up in fuel recovery contributing over 1% in freight revenue growth and roughly $0.05 in earnings per share compared to 2011.
In addition we achieved solid core pricing gains of 5%.
Slide 22 provides more detail on our core pricing and fuel coverage gains for the quarter.
As I mentioned fuel coverage improved this quarter largely driven by recent legacy negotiations adding over a full point to revenue growth.
Overall we feel very good about the progress that we've made moving these contracts more to market.
We also achieved strong core pricing of 5%.
However our pricing gains were somewhat mitigated by declines in coal in International Intermodal volumes this quarter.
That said the combination of solid core pricing and fuel coverage gains reflect the value of Union Pacific's service offerings and contributed to a record profitability this quarter.
Moving on to the expense side.
Slide 23 provides a look at our compensation and benefits expense which was up 4% compared to 2011.
Consistent with our previous guidance more moderate inflation drove a 2% increase in costs.
Workforce levels increased 4% in the quarter compared to 2011.
Increased capital activity including positive train control contributed about 1/2 of this growth.
Base business activity drove the remaining increase which was also impacted by the mix shift and additional resources that we deployed to the south.
In 2012 we still anticipate attrition in the 8% to 10% range.
We'll continue to hire new employees to backfill for attrition and to support volume growth.
Excluding growth on the capital side we expect workforce levels to increase but not at a one-for-one rate with volume growth.
Slide 24 shows fuel expense which totaled $926 million increasing $100 million versus last year.
The average diesel price -- fuel price was $3.23 per gallon which increased 12% year-over-year.
Drivers included the average barrel price of $103 which increased 11% and a $5-per-barrel increase in the conversion spread.
Fuel expense was also up as a result of a 2% increase in gross ton-miles but this was mostly offset by a 2% improvement in our fuel consumption rate.
Purchased services and materials expense increased 11% to $526 million driven in part by higher subsidiary contract expenses.
Of course you need to match the higher subsidiary expense with a 20% growth in subsidiary revenue which is reflected in the Other revenue line.
We also saw higher locomotive and freight car repair expense this quarter driven by increased material usage and inflation costs.
Other expenses came in at $216 million up $28 million resulting from higher property taxes and personal injury expense.
As we said in January the Other expense line will be challenged to 2012 with higher property taxes and personal injury expense.
As Lance just showed you we continued to see improvement in our safety performance which drove a lower current-year accrual.
But remember our comp was more difficult due to a large favorable prior year adjustment in 2011.
Going forward we expect Other expenses to be in this neighborhood for the remaining quarters of the year barring any unusual items.
Slide 26 summarizes the remaining 2 expense categories.
Depreciation expense increased 8% to $427 million driven by increased capital spending and volume growth.
Looking at the full year 2012 we expect depreciation expense to be up around 9% compared to last year.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $296 million down 2% from 2011.
Lower locomotive lease expense was the primary driver due to the early buyout of equipment under long-term leases.
Bringing it all together Slide 27 reflects our operating ratio performance highlighting the improvements in profitability that we've achieved over the last several years.
Despite higher fuel prices in the quarter we achieved a record first quarter operating ratio of 70.5% improving over 4 points compared to last year's first quarter record.
Core pricing gains improved fuel surcharge coverage and modest volume growth all contributed to this improvement.
For 2012 we continue to target a record full year operating ratio performance.
Union Pacific's record earnings drove strong free cash flow in the first quarter.
While cash from operations increased compared to last year free cash flow was lower due to increased capital spending and a 55% increase in cash dividend payments.
And as we discussed in January we still expect bonus depreciation to be a net benefit to cash flow this year but it will result in a headwind compared to 2011 due to the catch up of prior years' programs and a 50% bonus depreciation rate in 2012 compared to a 100% rate in 2011.
Our balance sheet remains strong supporting our investment grade credit rating.
At March 31 2012 the adjusted debt-to-cap ratio was 40.1%.
Opportunistic share repurchases continue to play an important role in our balanced approach to cash allocation.
Union Pacific's increasing returns over the last several years have enabled us to drive greater shareholder value.
In the first quarter we bought back 3.9 million shares totaling $433 million up $185 million compared to last year.
Since 2007 we purchased nearly 83 million shares at an average price of around $74.
Combining dividend payments and share repurchases we returned over $720 million to our shareholders in the first quarter of 2012 up more than 65% versus last year.
Looking forward we have 23.9 million shares remaining under our current authorization which expires March 31 2014.
That's a recap of our first quarter results.
Solid pricing gains the improved fuel coverage and volume growth drove a 39% increase in earnings.
In addition favorable weather conditions this year and a large fuel headwind in the first quarter of 2011 also contributed to year-over-year earnings growth.
Looking ahead we still expect record earnings in 2012 but our quarterly comps will get a little bit tougher particularly in the second quarter.
We expect second quarter earnings to improve sequentially and on a year-over-year basis but not at the same rate that we saw in the first quarter.
And as Eric just discussed softer coal demand will pose an even greater challenge for us in the second quarter.
That being said we still expect volumes to be on the positive side of the ledger for the full year.
Continued growth in domestic Intermodal energy-related shale moves of crude oil frac sand and pipe in addition to strong Automotive and Chemical shipments should offset the coal decline.
Again this clearly highlights the benefits of our diverse franchise.
And our prospects for 2012 supported by Union Pacific's strong value proposition should allow us to reward our shareholders with even greater returns.
So with that I'll turn it back over to Jack.
Thanks Rob.
With the strong first quarter behind us we are totally focused on the prospects that lie ahead.
Although coal volumes remain a challenge we expect that continued opportunities in other areas of our business are going to allow us to drive financial -- record financial results for the year.
We're moving forward with our capital investment strategies.
We're investing today to strengthen the network and build capacity that will drive improved customer service and shareholder returns for tomorrow.
We believe very strongly in the opportunities for growing our financial returns for the future.
So with that let's open up the phone and take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Brandon Oglenski with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Maybe if we can just come back to that comment on the second quarter I'm sure a lot of people are wondering here.
When you said that earnings growth isn't going to be as great as the first quarter are we thinking on an EPS level? Is that what you're guiding to? Rob? Yes.
What I'm saying there is -- yes on an earnings basis the rate of improvement won't be as great as the rate of improvement that we saw in the first quarter.
However as I pointed out we do expect it to be sequentially stronger and still grow year-over-year which is not quite at the same rate.
Again the main challenge is the coal that we talked about.
Research Division</strong> And then obviously there's going to be a lot of questions on coal today and I think I'll open it up with this.
But a lot of people are asking in the West transportation costs are a much larger piece of delivered cost to utilities.
And with gas prices as low as they are if they stay here for a while some people are connecting the dots and saying "Well the rails could actually cut the rates to keep coal moving." Is that a fair statement? And how would you address that? Brandon I would tell you that for the most part transportation rates are not going to make or break the productivity and the efficiency of coal electric utility generation.
If there is a utility that is so close to the edge that the transportation rates are making the difference we'll probably not going to be in a position of being able to save that utility nor would we go down that path with our pricing strategies.
Our next question is from Tom Wadewitz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask another question on I guess the demand side.
How much -- on the coal how much visibility and conviction do you have in that kind of low- to mid-teens decline in second quarter? I think through first quarter as you talked about coal it seemed to get worse at a couple of times when you talked about it.
I think you had said down 5 down 7 and it ended up down a little bit more than that.
So are you -- you feel like you have good visibility that it's not going to be down more than say 15%? And then I don't know if you have any thoughts on second half how we might look at that as well? Well at some point in time Tom we're predicting the weather here.
So that makes it a little bit iffy on our part.
When we look at our coal situation right now here's how we think about it: The gas capabilities in our served territory have already played their cards.
So there's not really a lot more opportunity in the utility that we serve to shift anymore production to gas.
So that's really running full out at this point in time.
We've seen the fall off now in volumes.
We think that's going to stay.
And so we think that low to mid-teens is probably a fairly solid number.
If you have a normal summer by the time we get to the end of the second quarter we should start to see our volume kind of pick up and then it will grow in the third and fourth quarter and you'll start to see overall coal volumes come back.
And in the meantime we think we've got enough upside on our other business like the shale plays the Automotive business the domestic Intermodal side that by the time we get to the end of the year we should still be in positive territory for total volumes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let's see.
The second question just in terms of the thinking about margins and incremental margins in second quarter.
You had some coal headwind already in first quarter and you had the 400 over 400 basis points margin improvement.
I know you're saying be a little more cautious on a difficult comparison in second quarter.
But given the mix of business I would think your incrementals could still be quite strong in terms of where you're growing in the merchandise network maybe running longer trains and getting good pricing on that shale-related business.
Is that kind of a fair way to look at it to say all right be a little careful but incrementals should still be pretty strong in second quarter? Rob you want to take that? Yes.
Tom in the first quarter let me just kind of set the stage there.
You're right incremental volume were -- margins were outstanding in the first quarter at over 60% which was driven by all the positives that we spoke about.
How it will play out I would expect that incremental margins will continue to be very positive.
Exactly how it will play out will be as dependent as anything on the mix effect.
We expect as Eric walked through positive strength to continue and things like the new shale-related activities.
We expect international -- or excuse me domestic Intermodal to continue to strengthen.
So the mix will play a fact in that.
But I would expect that incremental margins will continue to be strong.
Our next question is from the line of Justin Yagerman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jack I just wanted to follow up on the first question on coal.
I mean it sounded like you pretty much were saying that you guys wouldn't use price as a way to stimulate growth in volume on the thermal coal side.
I mean is that the way to read that? I mean it doesn't sound like it makes economic sense for you guys to do that and I just wanted to follow-up and get clarification there.
Again Justin you've been with us a long time and you know that our strategy has been to ensure that every piece of business that moves on our railroad is re-investable.
So we're going to continue to go down that path.
We don't think the transportation rates -- if you have a utility that is on the edge of economic viability we don't believe transportation rates is going to save that utility and it has further implications for us in all of our other customers.
So we don't want people trading on the basis of transportation contracts.
We want them trading on the basis of their own productivity efficiency and manufacturing capabilities.
So we would stay with my earlier answer.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes a lot of sense.
When I look at the 4-week moving average and kind of economically sensitive carloads if I strip out Ag and coal it feels like you've seen maybe a little bit of deceleration in growth rates here in April.
And I just wanted to see how that jives with what we've seen from some of the other economic data out there.
We had extremely strong West Coast port imports in March and I was wondering if you've seen follow-through in terms of that in your network here in April.
Maybe if have any color on whether or not those strong imports were some of the customers getting ahead of steamship line GRIs.
I was curious to see if you had any color on what's going on on that end of things.
Okay.
Eric you want to take a shot at that? Yes.
As we look at the ramp up in April clearly April started off soft from a trend standpoint.
Part of that is due to the holiday weekend that we saw.
But we are seeing a good ramp up here in the latter part of April and we feel pretty good about our outlook for the demand and the other businesses as we've discussed earlier both the domestic businesses and our opportunities on the import side.
So we still are pretty confident looking at our outlook and looking at our current rate and run rate and ramp up.
My finance team would tell me that April is historically our lowest month of the year.
Research Division</strong> Oh interesting.
And we're hoping that's the truth this year too.
Our next question is from Scott Group of Wolfe Trahan.
Why don't you ask on the legacy contracts first? What percent of the repricing in '12 is reflected in first quarter? I'm wondering if some of it gets layered in throughout the year or even over the next couple of years.
And then can you talk about the timing? I know it's early but talk about the timing for the contracts in '13.
And does the situation in coal in your mind kind of limit the upside for future legacy repricings on the coal side? Sure Scott.
Eric you want to take a first shot? And I can help you out if you...
Yes.
As has been said in the past we expected to see a 1- to 2-point percent benefit from our legacy pricing and that's what we're seeing this year.
Certainly the volume mix or the volume shortfall in coal and some of the volume shortfall in our International Intermodal business has had a negative impact on our legacy pricing mix.
But we are seeing it still in that 1% to 2% range that we had expected.
We do not have any layered pricing plans in our late -- in our legacy contracts throughout the year but we are firmly committed and looking forward to meeting exceeding the price expectations that we had out there.
But it sounds like if the coal volumes come back next year that the impact to the legacy will kind of fill a second leg to that.
Is that fair? If I can just add this is Rob Scott.
As Eric pointed out yes if the coal volumes came back.
Because what we experienced in the first quarter both on coal and also on International Intermodal is some of the repriced business didn't move.
So yes if that volume came back that would be a positive for us if that repriced business came back.
The other thing I wanted to respond to you Scott was your question on the legacy in 2013.
The bulk of that is front-end loaded.
So again Scott if you just think about it we have one of probably the most conservative assessments of core price.
Because if the car doesn't move regardless of how high we raise the price we don't get credit for it.
And so the core price of 5% is a solid number for us.
The mix did hurt us as everybody pointed out in terms of coal and International Intermodal because that is where the bulk of our -- where all of our legacy renewals from last year were housed.
So hopefully we'll see those volumes improve as we get through the year and we'll start to see a greater contribution from.
I think the best assessment of it though the total impact you just to go back to the operating ratio and see that 70.5 to 4 points of improvement.
Sure.
And just second question it's a newer market for us so we don't have the history.
How should we think about the yields in margins in the frac and the crude oil business relative to the overall book of business? Overall when you look at the frac sand and the crude oil it's re-investable.
It's at market rates and we're very very happy to have as much of it as we can bring on the railroad.
Our next question is from Bill Greene of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Jack and Rob when we -- when you first gave your long-term guidance on OR I guess it was in 2010 I think a lot of us on the Street sort of viewed it as being conservative.
And you cautioned us at the time and said "Listen these are long-term numbers and so a lot can change." And obviously natural gas changed.
So if natural gas stays at 2 and I know there's a lot of people that'll say "Well that isn't going to be the case " but just as an assumption do you still feel comfortable about that long-term guidance that the coal franchise is materially smaller? Rob? Yes Bill.
We're staying with that 65% to 67% operating ratio target full year operating ratio target by 2015.
And you hit the nail in the head.
When we gave that guidance a lot of things have changed.
But we have not changed in our conviction in our commitment.
We may get there a different way and I think we're walking our talk in terms of making the kind of progress we did even without the benefit of coal in the first quarter with that 4-point improvement.
And as I've said all along and I said this when we set the original 75% target in the low 70s operating ratio target we're going to get there as efficiently as we can as quickly as we can.
It's not an endpoint.
It's just a next step along the game here.
And so we're not changing our conviction.
We're going to get there as soon as we can but we still feel confident about that even though it may come in a different way.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
Good.
The other question that comes up a fair amount is just trying to understand the dynamics of take or pay contracts in the coal industry.
I mean that is sorry for you guys on the utility side for coal.
So first of all do you have any utilities sort of paying you for sort of take or pay i.e.
they're not taking the coal but they're paying anyway? Is that something that happens now? How did that manifest itself? And when we see these -- when we see these sort of announcements of cuts from coal mines like BTU today do we have to take that into account when we think about your volumes? Is that sort of a leading indicator or a lagging indicator? Eric? We do have a small percent of our coal customers that are running at minimums but it's a very small percent of our coal customers that are doing that.
So we typically don't have a large portion of take or pay contracts.
So we have customers that are operating at their minimum but they're not falling below and then paying us the economic penalty.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when we see a mine is announcing cuts because they expect lower shipments does that -- how does that play out for you? Is that an indicator we need to keep in mind? Or are your volumes already ahead of what they're cutting? I think our volumes are already ahead of what they're cutting.
And customers many times have multiple mine sources so they can move between mines.
Our next question is from Chris Wetherbee with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could give a little bit more color on the negative mix impact within the legacy business just looking at kind of the year-over-year core price build.
Just want to get a rough sense if you can kind of what that impact was the softening on the growth there? Sure Chris.
Rob you want to handle that? Yes.
And again just to make sure everybody's following what Chris is asking the way we calculate price and I would say again the financial organization our conservative looks at it it's all in yield and we calculate it across our entire book of business.
So as Jack pointed out if something doesn't move it doesn't get counted obviously.
And also what doesn't get counted in our price is if there's new business that comes on board which we've seen a lot of that.
So you see that positive mix in our operating ratio but you don't see that in the price.
But specific to your question on the negative impact that we saw in the first quarter from price I would say it was about 0.5 point.
And what that is is a result of the repriced mostly coal and International Intermodal business that made up the bulk of that billion dollar legacy end of fourth -- or end of 2011 beginning in 2012 that we talked about.
That did not move.
So the volume wasn't there we didn't get credit for it in the way we calculated the price.
And that was about 0.5 point if you will from a core price impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did the delta between that and the 3 percentage points of mix favorable mix is to your point the new business that's coming on which is likely the crude-by-rail frac sand those kinds of things which are coming in at a higher revenue per carload? Chris that's exactly right.
The other thing I would point out that was a real plus in -- shows up in our operating ratio improvement but also shows up in our legacy renewal success is the improvement in our fuel recovery mechanism.
We're still not where we want to be as a company.
We're not going to be at 100% until we finish off all of the legacy renewals.
But we did make a nice step forward with improving our lot and recovering fuel.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just a follow-up on the headcount side.
Just want to get a sense roughly assuming we hit your target for coal in the low to mid-teens for the second quarter and we see how it plays out going forward.
But how do you think about kind of headcount and where your staffed? I mean should it be basically flat from where we are as average employee per quarter going forward? Or do you think you need to do anymore furloughing or anything like that going forward? Rob? I'll kind of address the overall and there's a mix impact here as Lance pointed out in terms of the growth in the south versus less growth in the other parts of the region.
So we're dealing with that and Lance and his team are addressing that.
But at a macro level just reiterating we would expect that headcount will grow with volume.
So with volumes on the positive side of the ledger which we expect it will be for the full year we would expect headcount to actually be up net-net as a result of the hiring that we will do for both attrition and hiring for growth but not at a one-for-one level.
In addition to that headcount likely will grow as we continue to increase our capital spending which is again a $3.6 billion spend this year and the impact of positive train control.
So net-net I would expect that if volume plays out the way we expect it to on the positive side of the ledger that headcount would be exactly up.
Lance you and your team have been working at those headcount levels and kind of making adjustments as we see volume changes.
Do you have anything to add do that? Yes sure.
So we're at a furlough number of about 600 right now something like that.
And we have been adjusting both our hiring and our existing headcount numbers.
I expect those will continue to adjust.
I think hiring is of course going to be pretty healthy for mostly attrition and mix is going to be driving some of that headcount decision as well as we see manifest absorbing more of the business and requiring more headcount than some of the coal business for instance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It's fair to assume that you're going to have a slightly higher headcount per carload because of that mix shift that we're seeing into manifest? That's fair.
Our next question is from Cherilyn Radbourne of TD Securities.
The first question I wanted to ask was on International intermodal.
You're still striking a fairly cautious tone there so I wonder if you could just give us a bit more color on what you're hearing from customers? And comment on the potential for East Coast labor negotiations to influence flows to the West Coast? Eric? Well as you know we have a tough comp in the first quarter first half of this year.
Intermodal volumes -- International Intermodal volumes last year were very strong and they're off compared to last year.
And then we also have a tough comp throughout the first half of the year with the contract loss that we discussed in the past.
So we have those 2 factors that are putting some caution in our outlook for some early part of this year.
In terms of your question about East Coast issues there are a lot of factors that impact whether a steamship carrier decides to land on the West Coast and use a land bridge or go through the East Coast.
We think that our value proposition and the strength of our franchise still allows the West Coast option land bridge to be a very strong option and we still see a very competitive outlook in our business from that factor vis-a-vis East Coast ports.
And in terms of your crude business obviously it's still probably a small fraction of the business but a lot of interest in just how big that might be.
Just wondering if you could quantify that and talk about how that may grow over the short term and what the constraints are there.
Is it terminal capacity? Is it tank cars? If you could just elaborate a bit.
Yes I'll give you just a couple of benchmark points for you.
Last year our shale crude oil was about 3 900 carloads.
And in the first quarter this year it was 20 400.
So that's order of magnitude just kind of where we saw the volume growth.
We think it's going to continue to grow as we go through the year.
We were something like 26 trains as I recall last September 72 trains in March moving forward to 100 and beyond that as we go through the year.
So it's growing nicely for us.
And Jack you can see the constraints if any.
It's basically being paced right now by facilities.
Right.
Meaning the terminals? Yes meaning the terminals.
There was a press release yesterday or the day before that our partner US Development down at St.
James just opened up added capacity that will allow 2 trains a day.
So as we talked earlier about some of the ramp up we're seeing here April and beyond that's kind of a good news piece of the factor for us.
Our next question is from Peter Nesvold of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So earlier you talked about how you're still committed to getting to the 65% to 67% OR even if PRB does go into secular decline and there other things that you can do.
Are there a few things that you point to? What actions what changes would you make to the network in order to continue to improve the OR if that business does continue to shrink from here? Lance? Sure yes let's get started.
So let's say coal does shrink over the long run going forward.
Well some of the first things we do is we reallocate resources we right size the business which we have been doing in the first quarter.
We'll continue to do.
On the upside of productivity as we've talked about before we've got just a target-rich environment for improvement whether it's train size improvement process improvement in terminals process improvement over the road and the benefits the productivity benefits of our capital spend.
So we've got ample opportunity in the operating side to continue to improve productivity and efficiency.
If I can just add to that in addition to all the operating ships and improvements that Lance just walked through at a macro level what will continue to also drive our operating ratio improvement are: continue to focus on adding the capacity and the changes that Lance talked about; providing great service to our customers which enables us to continue to get price in the marketplace; continue to improve our surcharge recovery mechanisms.
All of that adds up into our operating ratio target.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But is there capital that you typically would allocate to the coal business that you might reallocate to other businesses in order to get those productivity improvements or the benefits? Because I would suspect that you would be doing these productivity benefits regardless of whether coal is growing or not growing.
And so is it redeploying the resources to other parts of the business so those businesses can grow faster than what they would do in a base case scenario? For sure reallocation of fungible assets happens and that will benefit as Rob mentioned both growth rates and service.
And from the standpoint of capital in the current outlook there's just not a lot of capital that we've got planned for coal-specific operations.
I mean I just don't think there's a lot of adjustment there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a quick follow-up.
You talked about inflation moderating.
If the contracts are all structured as inflation plus does that mean that that core pricing at least nominally will start to level off or maybe come down a little bit as the year progresses? Of course maintaining a positive spread.
But does the headline number start to come down a bit? I really don't see that happening Peter.
Rob do you have any...
Yes I would just add that -- Peter while we've talked about sort of our general view of inflation plus sort of philosophy it's not like the contract spells out inflation plus in the terms of the contract.
So the fact that inflation is high one year like it was last year and as we pointed out in the Labor line alone last year inflation was in the 4% to 5% range.
This quarter we turned in 2%.
We expect the full year to be somewhere in the 2.5% range.
We are not -- that does not impact our pricing decisions that we're making currently.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Ceraso of Credit Suisse Group.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-up items on coal and then one other just your comment about low to mid-teens volume growth.
Does that assume that weather gets better? Because currently it's running down in kind of the high teens.
So how do you get there? It looks like once we get into the second half of the quarter the comps start to get quite a bit harder too.
As Jack said earlier we're not capable of predicting the weather but our assumption is that we're going to have a normal outlook for the second quarter.
Again second quarter is typically a shelf month where there is a normal downturn in the second quarter just because of the mild weather.
But we're expecting a -- our low to mid-teens outlook assumes normal weather patterns.
If I can just make one comment on that.
Remember and Eric showed it on his slide earlier that there was a little bit of uniqueness in terms of the comps last year.
Remember we had the flood last year that hit in the second quarter then we came out of that strong and it strengthened throughout the balance of the year.
So just keep in mind as you look year-over-year that there was that unusual activity last year.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And second you've commented on this a couple of times about pricing in the market and staying the course.
But to the extent that pricing is market-based some of your -- or your main competitor in the West has made some public comments about trying to work with customers and lowering price.
Does that not factor into your plans on pricing? Chris our commitment is to make every carload on this railroad re-investible over time and get to that level.
And if we can't achieve those kinds where we can re-invest in the locomotives the track capacity and things like that we will probably pass on the business.
Research Division</strong> And just one housekeeping one.
The other revenue was up pretty strongly and you did make a comment about some liquidated damages.
Is that where that would show up? No that's not what that is Chris.
The driver of the other revenue was relatively small but our subsidiary rev what we call subsidiary revenue was up nicely this quarter for us.
Not anything to do with any kind of liquidated damages discussion.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Hoexter with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You talked a bit about your coal contracts.
Rob are you seeing any kind of minimum commitments decrease in the renewed contracts that can dramatically lower the kind of commitment of those utilities to obtaining coal? Ken why don't we let Eric have a shot at that? No no no.
We don't see that.
As I mentioned earlier a very small percent of our coal customers currently are operating at their minimum commitments and we don't see any contract changes in the future that would address that or lower that.
Research Division</strong> So as you went through the negotiations at the end of last year as they were seeing the low nat gas prices you didn't see a kind of sizable push to get those minimums reduced? We did not have any significant contract changes that we implemented.
Research Division</strong> That's encouraging.
And a follow-up would be kind of I guess if you can maybe just walk through how much the weather aided your kind of costs when you think about operations that -- maybe that's a Lance question in terms of the quarter just what kind of tougher comps do you anticipate if we were to have a normal weather come next year just as we move forward through the year? Sure Ken.
Now you know we're used to operating outside so the weather did have some favorable impact right where we're typically going to spend on snow removal or perhaps face some tough operating conditions during very inclement weather.
We didn't have much of that repeat across the system the first quarter this year.
That's really kind of minor in the grand scheme of things.
What I would have much preferred is a cold winter and good coal demand and I would have traded that in a heartbeat.
Amen.
Our next question is from Walter Spracklin of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question here is a follow-up on the Intermodel question on the International Intermodal.
Rather than discuss your demand can you talk a little bit about the market share on your -- on the ports you serve? It seems that we could see some shifts into Canadian northern ports especially -- even into Mexico.
Are you seeing that occur? And could you also tie that into your view on Panama when that starts to fully open up and what that could mean to your International Intermodal franchise? Okay.
Eric? Yes that's -- well that's a good question.
Certainly from a Canadian standpoint everyone's familiar with Prince Rupert.
And Prince Rupert is certainly looking to position itself as an alternative port.
And if you look at the U.S.
West Coast ports particularly the Port of L.A.
Long Beach that is and we foresee for the foreseeable future to be the predominant port for imports onto the West Coast from a value standpoint from a cost standpoint from a productivity standpoint from a size standpoint.
And we don't really see a lot of risk to that the Port of L.A.
Long Beach position or the other U.S.
West Coast ports.
Certainly there are ports in Mexico that are also attempting to position themselves as options but we really don't see that.
In terms of the Panama Canal lots of points of view out there.
I think some of the experts would suggest that if you look at the expense of the Canal and what is already happening with the Canal fees if you look at the fact that there are not many current U.S.
East Coast ports that could handle the larger ships and there would be an expense that would be required to do dredging and decks expansion to handle those ships we think the Canal might have a minor impact.
I think the market numbers today roughly about 30% of the freight goes all water.
That may increase a couple of percentage points as you look at the opening of the Panama Canal.
But we're not expecting it to be at this point in time a significant impact on our going-forward strategic plans.
The key thing for us Walter as Eric said we haven't seen that shift taking place.
And one of the reasons is because we are doing everything we possibly can to deliver great service to our customers.
And as long as our service package is excellent and stays excellent that's our best defense.
It's our best defense against port shifting on the West Coast it's also our best defense against a new port capacity in Mexico although we may actually benefit from that I guess depending on which port it would come across in the border.
But also the shift to the Panama Canal.
That's largely -- we can influence that greatly by the kind of service and we are up to that challenge.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great color.
I appreciate that.
And keeping on the port theme here if I remember correctly your last investor day there was -- you were eluding a little bit to the potential for coal port expansion that you would be able to service but weren't in a position at that time to really elaborate on it.
Can you give us any update on that if you can? Right now -- so the one that we were probably most excited about was the one up in Longview Washington.
That's kind of run afoul of some of the EPA concerns.
We're actually kind of watching that whole decision for the EPA to be kind of taking a more broad or blanket look at potential environmental situations.
But certainly the one at Longview was important us.
We've been moving quite a bit of export coal now down through Houston and we think there's some additional capacity there.
We've been working with mines and the Ferromex railroad and looking at the Port of Guaymas down in Mexico.
All of those things are still in play.
The newly added challenge or wrinkle for us is what happens with the EPA reviews.
Yes.
To add to what Jack said I think the current list of proposed projects some of which multi-year duration and all of which certainly will be subject to various environmental permitting review processes but -- the list of projects really would expand export coal capacity to over 100 million tons annually.
That's a huge number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes absolutely.
I mean I think you nailed it on the head there with the -- the permitting is being a big problem.
But if that can go through you could see a lot of opening capacity.
Just a final here clarification.
You mentioned if you get a good nice warm summer you could see growth in the back half.
Did you mean growth sequentially? Or growth year-over-year in your coal shipments? Sequentially.
Our next question is from Jason Seidl of Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> First Jim if you're listening hang in there.
We're all pulling for you.
Back to business.
I promise no coal questions from me.
I think that's been beaten to death here and I think you guys will be probably happy with that as well.
I want to actually turn back to one of your responses to a question.
You mentioned that some of the potential new ports in Mexico that you might be able to win some of that business I'm assuming you're talking about APM's expansion down there in Lzaro.
Are you guys in talks with them? Is there a big opportunity to start bringing some of that business into the U.S.
through your Mexican ports? And then I have a follow-on in a different segment.
Yes I think most of those comments were referred to the ports on the west coast of Mexico.
We are actually having in-depth conversations with a number of port officials and with our partner railroads in Mexico to look at product and service offerings both export and import and not just Intermodal but also bulk products export and import in a variety of ports down there.
So we think there is some upside.
There are some capacity things we're working through but we believe there is an upside.
LLC Research Division</strong> Does that bulk include coal? Yes that includes coal.
Coal and other exports yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> My last question is also going to be in response.
You said there were no capacity constraints for your crude-to-rail projects which I found interesting.
Everyone I seem to talk to right now can't seem to find any tank cars and I'm even including some of the larger shippers out there as well.
Is this just because there's enough tank cars on backorder that you expect to come through for the remainder of the year? And then maybe if you could just touch on sort of hopper car demand right now and where we sit with that compared for frac sand? Yes.
I'm not sure we said there were no capacity constraints.
Lance will talk a little bit about our principal capacity.
There are significant -- perhaps a record number of tank cars coming online as you may know.
I don't have the exact number off the top of my head but there is almost a record number of tank cars.
So that it a significant investment that customers are making third parties are making.
And I think enough tank cars will be coming online to align with the demand that is out there.
There's also significant investment in covered hoppers that are coming online that handle the drilling materials for -- like frac sand for the drilling market.
So I think the car -- there's some headwinds there but there are enough cars coming online to address the capacity issues I think over the midterm.
In terms of the physical capacity issues I'm going to let Lance address that.
Sure.
Jason you might be referring to -- I think what we said was the volume on crude was largely being throttled by destination facilities.
But that's not to say that there aren't other capacity constraints or challenges.
On the railroad side we're largely overcoming those with incremental resources and we're building capacity rapidly as we speak.
If I can just add? Yes.
Jason you probably know this but the investment in the tank car itself is not our investment.
That's the investment of the producer of course.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> So in other words I guess the way I should read this is there might be some maybe near-term potential constraints but you guys are helping improve throughput which will help run existing equipment that's out there right now.
And as we move throughout the year on the crude-to-rail the stuff that's on backlog right now that's coming in the market should help alleviate some of the constraints that are out there? Absolutely.
And we have very very excellent cooperation with our customers.
I mean it's not just us.
It takes the entire team the customers the destination facilities the railroad everybody working together to keep this thing moving on a fluid basis.
And it's very very heartwarming to see it happen.
Our next question is coming from the line of Matt Troy with Susquehanna International Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just give an updated sense of the landscape on pending and existing EPA regulations.
It certainly seems to be a problem more localized for Appalachian production.
But to the extent there might be potential risks as you it or as identified in your network maybe you could shed some light on that? And then I think more importantly are you still getting inquiry from either southeast utilities new utilities in the East or even increased inquiry from Asian-based coal buyers about thermal coal in the PRB and what those opportunities might be; have they picked up? Are they about the same? Are they less than they were a year ago? Sure Matt.
Overall the EPA we're just all over that.
We're working with the utilities with the mines and watching very carefully as to what might happen with the EPA reviews and those kinds of things.
So I don't know that we could add any particular insight at this point in time other than we're watching carefully doing the things that we can to support our coal customers in the coal industry.
And moving forward it's a lot of jobs for this country.
It's a lot of opportunity for us and for our shareholders and we don't want to see that go astray.
In terms of the contacts on export Eric do you want to talk about what's happening? Yes.
So I mentioned earlier the port development projects that we referred to in the West Coast and also in Mexico those are really being driven by the inquiries for coal for -- [ph] coal for Asia.
So we are still seeing a significant amount of potential demand for export coal.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Right.
But I mean if I look at the list of proposed projects be it the Millennium Bulk Port of Morrow Port of St.
Helens Grays Harbor Port of Coos Pacific Terminal the list hasn't changed.
Some of the permitting -- we've gone from 200 to 400 to 500 tons -- excuse me 20 40 50 tons at some.
So the permitting seems to be going in the right direction.
I'm just wondering has there been a cooling from the folks that actually will consume the coal not actually have to build the terminal on the other side of the Pacific or in the Southeast.
Or is the dialogue consistent i.e.
are people looking past this year in coal? We have not seen any cooling and I would say perhaps the opposite.
We've seen some real time higher level of interest for export coal out of Mexican ports that do not seem to have the same permitting process requirements perhaps that we have in the Pacific Northwest ports.
Our next question is from the line of Jeff Kauffman Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick -- a couple of detailed questions.
On your coal franchise can you give me an idea what the length of haul on the utility businesses is this year versus last year? Eric? I don't think there's a substantial significant difference in length of haul this year versus last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
How does your length of haul compare in your coal franchise out of PRB relative to the Bakken franchise? Because you mentioned that that is offsetting some of the bulk business to some degree.
I just want to get a sense of difference in distance.
Lance? I can probably answer that.
It's in the ballpark on average.
In a normal demand scenario coal might be marginally longer.
Yes.
I would say coal is probably longer.
We're -- the interchanges for us on the crude oil out of the Bakken would be Kansas City St.
Louis Chicago St.
Paul.
So -- and then you would add beyond that the coal.
So I would say the oil transfer a little shorter in terms of length of haul.
Maybe 100 a couple of hundred miles max.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And just what is the domestic utility length of haul across your network right now? I mean we can get back with an answer on that.
Historically it's in the 900 to 1 000 miles.
I would have told you 1 000 miles would be my best guess but we could clarify that.
We could have Michelle or someone.
Our next question is from David Vernon of Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Within Industrial Products can you talk a little bit about how the mix change within that might have affected the average revenue per car that was reported? It was a very strong number for the segment.
Okay.
Eric? Yes.
Industrial Products had very very strong growth in terms of the drilling-related things as we [indiscernible] as we mentioned.
So frac sand steel.
Very very strong growth.
Moderate growth in some of the other base of construction products like our rock business our lumber business.
And we actually saw a significant decline in volume as I referred to in some of our hazardous waste business.
We had a very short-haul contract that we've talked about in the past where the stimulus funding ran out and so there was a significant reduction in that business.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one short follow-up.
In terms of pulling forward CapEx Rob are you -- are we going to keep the same guidance for the full year? We are.
$3.6 billion.
No change.
Our next question is from Tyler Brown of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had just a question on your crude-by-rail franchise.
Have you guys really seen any noticeable change in the interest for rail transportation given kind of the Seaway reversal and the potential of a WTI Brent spread narrowing? And do -- or do you think that those rail transportation decisions really are made just given a simple lack of pipe capacity in place such as the Bakken? Eric.
We are still seeing a strong interest in crude-by-rail.
And one of the things that we have seen is that we are providing a very strong value proposition not only in terms of the value in terms of cost but also the time.
There's some assessment that suggests crude by rail is faster to market and certainly has the ability to change markets vis-a-vis crude by pipeline.
We do not forever foresee taking over the haul market but we do see for a long-term play the opportunity to have markets move crude by rail as long as we continue our value proposition.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you think there is a pretty good longevity to this business? That's our assessment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Rob I just have a quick cash flow modeling question but can you help us bracket the magnitude of the bonus depreciation step down this year? And then would it also step down again in 2013 if it goes to 0? Let me take the second part of that first.
Yes it would continue to step down as it goes to 0 because you got to pay back a portion of the prior years and of course the current year fall off.
I think the order of magnitude of the change is in the couple of hundred million range year-over-year.
Our final question today is from the line of Keith Schoonmaker of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Impressive 60% incremental margins.
Noting train length improved even with velocity and service both up I wanted to ask can you envision Intermodal trains longer than 170 units or manifest longer than about 90 cars? Can this be accomplished without compromising speed? Lance? Yes both can be.
Again we -- typically when we respond to train size questions we remind you that it's very specific by quarter.
But there is equal opportunity on both and without any negative impact on service parameters.
Research Division</strong> And at the present business level can you speak broadly and I recognize this is going to be lane-by-lane but -- about the relationship of train starts and incremental volume? That is can crew starts move in line with volume additions? Or will be there -- or will there be an opportunity to improve or maintain the current incremental margin? Yes we can all -- I'm going to speak to the train starts as volume increases.
We always have the opportunity to leverage volume through train starts via size and with key plan changes.
Mix does have an impact but in the global sense as we grow we would expect we should be able to generate some productivity out of train starts.
Okay.
Thanks everyone for joining us on the call this morning.
Clearly our 150th anniversary year is off to a great start.
We do have some challenges ahead as we manage through a soft coal environment but our franchise diversity has given us a lot of opportunities to help us do just that.
So we're going to keep doing what we know how to do: We're going to stay agile in a changing environment we're going to stay focused on providing great service for our customers and we're going to continue to improve returns for our shareholders.
And we look forward to being back with you again in July at the end of another strong quarter for Union Pacific.
Thanks very much.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Union Pacific second quarter conference call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Jack Koraleski CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you Mr.
Koraleski.
You may begin.
Good morning everybody and welcome to Union Pacific's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
With me here in Omaha today are Rob Knight our Chief Financial Officer; Eric Butler Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; and Lance Fritz Executive Vice President of Operations.
Union Pacific achieved an all-time record quarter generating an earnings milestone of $2.10 per share an increase of 32% compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Best-ever quarterly operating revenue and operating income drove our record operating ratio performance and bottom line results.
We're clearly delivering on the strength of our diverse franchise.
Volume growth across many of our market sectors allowed us to offset the 17% decline in coal volumes.
When combined with solid pricing efficient network operations and continued productivity gains the net result was our best-ever quarter by nearly every financial measure.
We're continuing to focus on providing safe efficient high-quality service that creates value for our customers and increased financial returns for our shareholders.
So with that we'll get started this morning.
I'll turn it over to Eric.
Thanks Jack and good morning.
Let's start with a look at customer satisfaction which came in at 93 for the quarter.
That's 1 point better than a year ago and it matches the record we set in the first quarter this year.
We appreciate this recognition from our customers and we're committed to continuing to provide them a strong value proposition.
Second quarter volume was a little better than flat against last year as strong growth in Automotive and Chemicals and solid gains in Industrial Products and Intermodal were offset by continued weakness in coal.
Excluding the impact of coal combined volume in the other 5 groups grew 5% despite a softer ag export market.
Core pricing improved 4.5%.
All 6 groups posted gains but the overall improvement was impacted again this quarter by the fall-off in coal volume where much of our legacy repricing has occurred.
The improved pricing along with about 2% from increased fuel surcharge revenue resulted in a 6% improvement in average revenue per car.
Together the slight increase in volume and improved average revenue per car resulted in the 7% increase in freight revenue to a record $4.9 billion.
Let's take a closer look at each of the 6 business groups.
Let's start with Coal which we used to report as Energy.
To avoid confusion with the fast-growing shale energy markets that are driving growth in Chemicals and Industrial Products and other energy markets from wind to ethanol going forward we're going to call this group Coal.
This is just a renaming of the old Energy line of business.
There is no change in what's included in the results.
In the second quarter Coal revenue declined 9% as the 10% improvement in average revenue per car wasn't enough to overcome the 17% drop in volume.
Coal demand remained weak as historically low natural gas prices reduced coal's share of electricity generation and mild winter weather sent coal stockpiles soaring.
Powder River Basin stockpiles are estimated to have grown 70% from their low point last August swinging from 7 days below normal at that time to nearly 20 days above -- 24 days above normal this April before dropping back some in the past 2 months.
The tough market conditions and the ongoing impact of a couple of contract losses last year led to an 18% decline in Southern Powder River Basin tonnage.
Colorado/Utah tonnage grew 4% overcoming the weak domestic demand with a 135% increase in export tons.
Seasonal strengthening boosted overall coal volumes toward the end of the quarter and the recent upward movement in natural gas prices has been an encouraging trend but the chart in the upper left shows we're still tracking well below last year and the comps get tougher in the second half.
Ag Products revenue was up 1% as volume declined 2% but average revenue per car improved 2% despite the negative mix impact.
With improved world supply grain exports have declined as expected down 32% from last year's strong volumes.
Reduced U.S.
soybean crush drove a 6% decline in soybean meal shipment.
DDGs declined 13% as more product was fed locally reducing rail demand and lower gasoline consumption was reflected in the 3% reduction in ethanol volumes.
Partially offsetting those declines was an 8% growth in domestic grain shipments and a 3% growth in Food &amp; Refrigerated carloads.
Automotive shipments grew 13% which combined with an 8% improvement in average revenue per car drove a 25% increase in revenue.
As a reminder last year's results were softened somewhat by the impact of the disaster in Japan on the Automotive supply chain.
With Global Insight's current full year forecast at 14.2 million vehicles the Automotive industry's continued recovery was reflected in solid year-over-year growth in sales.
Improved credit availability is releasing pent-up demand to replace aging vehicles with new more fuel-efficient and technologically equipped vehicles.
For the UP that translated into 14% growth in finished vehicle carloadings while parts shipments grew 17%.
Chemicals revenue grew 14% as a 12% volume increase combined with a 1% improvement in average revenue per car.
Petroleum shipments increased 92% driven by continued growth in crude oil shipments originated in the Bakken and Eagle Ford Shale plays and moving to UP-served terminals at St.
James Louisiana and Galveston and Houston in Texas.
Plastics volume was up 7% with increased demand and new business.
Industrial chemicals LPG and most other Chemicals segments also posted gains.
However fertilizer was an exception with volume down 15% as demand for potash remained soft.
The decline in fertilizer also had a negative impact on average revenue per car.
Industrial Products grew 6% which combined with an 8% improvement in average revenue per car produced a 14% revenue increase.
UP's franchise is well-positioned to link new sand origins in the upper Midwest to new destination facilities in the oil-rich shale plays.
Combine that with the continued conversion of rigs from vertical to horizontal drilling technology now sand carloads continue to grow even as overall drilling activity was flat driving a 28% increase in nonmetallic mineral shipments.
Increased demand for rock into the Eagle Ford Shale play along with increased construction activity in the Houston area led to an 18% growth in rock traffic and an 8% increase in cement.
As housing starts climbed lumber carloadings increased 8% to their highest level since 2008 although they are still well below prerecession volumes.
Offsetting some of the strength in Industrial Products markets was a 55% or 11 600-unit decline in hazardous waste as ramp-down of government funding has impacted our uranium tailings business in Utah.
Intermodal revenue grew 10% as 3% growth in volume combined with a 7% improvement in average revenue per unit.
Although the pace of recovery is slow continued strengthening of the economy drove international Intermodal volume up 3%.
Growth was dampened slightly by the continued impact of the contract loss last year the effect of which we finally wrapped at the beginning of May.
Continued success in converting highway business to rail drove 3% growth in domestic Intermodal.
That wraps up the second quarter so let's take a look ahead at what we see for the second half of 2012.
Our current outlook is for the economy to continue its slow improvement although that's far from certain with ongoing problems in the Eurozone and fast approaching U.S.
budget and tax policy challenges.
No matter what the economy does we'll continue to focus on our strong value proposition attracting new customers and supporting our existing customers as they continue to work to grow their business.
Clearly continued weakness in Coal presents a sizable challenge as we look at the rest of the year.
While seasonal strengthening of coal shipments is already driving a stronger run rate sequentially against the tougher comp the third quarter volume decline is expected to be in the low to mid-teens.
In ag the prolonged and widespread drought conditions have moderated our earlier optimism about opportunities with the fall's harvest.
Recent corn yield estimates have dropped back to last year's levels likely eliminating any upside potential.
World demand for U.S.
soybeans still looks strong for the fall.
The good news is for -- our diverse franchise gives us a wide range of opportunities to offset the challenges and drive growth.
The biggest of those opportunities is continued strength in shale energy delivering inbound materials as well as outbound crude oil.
While the slowdown in natural gas drilling and the slower-than-expected ramp-up of customer facilities has shale energy-related carloads a little off their expected pace we still expect it to contribute about 2 points to overall growth for the year.
Shale energy will continue to be the largest growth driver in Industrial Products and Chemicals with other segments of those 2 businesses expected to continue as they did in the first half.
Forecasted improvement in housing starts and growth in nonresidential construction in the South should boost lumber rock and cement in Industrial Products.
While global markets may challenge some chemical manufacturers low-cost feedstocks are keeping U.S.
plants competitive and facility expansions also provide us with opportunities.
We anticipate strength in plastics will continue and industrial chemicals should track with the economy.
We expect continued success converting highway business in domestic Intermodal and international Intermodal should pick up tracking ahead of last year as a slowing-growing economy is expected to produce a positive but somewhat muted peak season.
Auto manufacturers expect sales growth to continue and that should be good for our finished vehicles and auto parts business.
Put that all together and we expect to overcome the challenges in Coal with the anticipated volume growth combining with price gains to drive revenue growth.
With that I'll turn it over to Lance.
Thanks Eric.
And good morning.
Starting with safety.
For the year-to-date period we came very close to achieving an all-time record performance in our reportable personal injury rate.
The second quarter reportable rate increased 9% compared to 2011 offsetting the year-over-year improvement in the first quarter.
More importantly a fatal incident that occurred in Goodwell Oklahoma at the end of June took the lives of 3 Union Pacific employees.
It was a terrible reminder of how unforgiving our industry can be and it underscores why we are relentless in pursuing the goal of 0 safety incidents.
With respect to rail equipment incidents to derailments our year-to-date reportable rate improved 4% and we are even more favorable in including all derailments not those meeting -- not just those meeting the FRA reportable threshold.
In public safety the grade-crossing incident rate increased 22% in the year-to-date period continuing the trend we saw in the first quarter.
The combined effects of our robust growth in the South which has a higher grade-crossing density than our overall network and growth in commercial traffic has increased our grade-crossing accident exposure.
We continue to focus on community support and driver behavior to address this increased risk.
Our safety strategy helps keep our network strong and resilient and as a result our network remains fluid and is operating at very efficient levels.
Weather was friendlier to our operation in the second quarter compared to last year which helped but that wasn't the whole story.
In addition to milder weather the operating team adapted the T-plan locomotives and crews to manage ships and mix from Coal to growing manifest and premium volumes in the South.
In Texas and Louisiana we are effectively utilizing the existing infrastructure while we build new capacity which I'll talk more about in a minute.
As a result velocity improved 2% to 26.6 miles per hour.
Compared to 20 -- 2010 average speed was up 1% despite a 4% growth in our 7-Day volumes.
Our service scorecard illustrates UP's customer value proposition.
The local operating teams continue to provide great service as reflected by Industry Spot &amp; Pull which tied an all-time quarterly record of 95%.
The second quarter Service Delivery Index a measure of how well we are meeting overall customer commitments also improved from 2011 levels.
While the UP team is successfully managing the continued carload surge in the South we continue to have capacity for growth in other parts of the system with about 420 employees furloughed and around 900 locomotives in storage.
Moving on to network productivity.
Slow order miles were down over 20% from last year which was a second quarter record for us.
Our network is in excellent shape reflecting our investment in replacement capital.
Moving to the upper right our car utilization metric improved year-over-year and reflects the improvement in network velocity and fluidity.
In the lower left gross ton-miles per employee declined 4% versus 2011 which includes the headwind of 700 additional employees working on capital projects and positive train control driving about half the decrease.
It also reflects the 17% decline in coal volumes which is one of our heaviest commodities.
Increased premium and manifest traffic including local train starts also amassed productivity gains.
While not shown on the graph here productivity gains were also achieved on the Intermodal side as train lengths grew to an all-time quarterly record of 173 boxes per train improving 3% on a 3% increase in Intermodal volumes compared to 2011.
Lastly our team is leveraging the robust volume growth in the South using UP's extensive terminal infrastructure to generate a 1% improvement in the number of cars switched per employee day.
To expand a bit more on the progress we're making in the South second quarter volumes in the South were up 7% versus last year and up 6% from first quarter levels.
In fact we're pretty much back to prerecession volumes.
During the first quarter call we talked about the initiatives underway to handle this robust growth efficiently.
Our results demonstrate the great progress we've made advancing them in the second quarter.
Benchmarking against the first quarter you can see the improvement made in terminal dwell on-time train departure and car connections despite volume growth of 6%.
We've realigned resources adjusted car routings to leverage available terminal capacity and modified train starts to maintain fluid operations and to increase local service frequency.
In addition the capital investments we're making in the South are beginning to have a positive impact in supporting both volume growth and improved service levels.
Our targeted 2012 capital spend is still around the $3.6-billion mark.
Spending for service growth and productivity will total over $1.3 billion.
It's important to note that all of these projects have a positive safety impact.
Capacity commercial facilities and equipment are the primary drivers.
The major projects include additional double track on the Sunset Corridor and the Blair project work on the Santa Teresa New Mexico facility and various projects in the South.
Our capacity expansion plans in the South are estimated at around $200 million this year increasing threefold from spending levels in 2011.
The map shows current and future investment plans.
Late in the second quarter we cut over new capacity in West Texas that will help us serve inbound and outbound loads for the Permian Basin.
In the second half of 2012 we'll be cutting over additional new capacity across the system including projects to efficiently deliver growth in crude oil moves to St.
James Louisiana.
Most encouraging is that new capacity investments are generating an excellent return while supporting our diverse book of business including increased shale-related volumes growing Mexico and Intermodal business as well as export grains to the Gulf.
So with that we remain positive on our operating outlook for 2012 and our ability to achieve network improvements on various fronts.
A more mature Total Safety Culture stronger relationships with local communities and improved infrastructure position us well to achieve our goal of another record safety year.
We will provide customers with a value proposition that supports growth with high levels of service and we are well positioned to react to dynamic shifts in volume while generating productivity and to invest a record amount of capital that generates attractive returns by increasing capacity in high-volume corridors.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
Let's start by summarizing our second quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 7% to an all-time quarterly record of $5.2 billion driven by core pricing gains and improved fuel surcharge recovery.
Operating expense totaled $3.5 billion increasing only 1%.
Lower fuel prices this quarter helped offset other cost increases after 9 consecutive quarters of higher year-over-year fuel prices.
Operating income totaled $1.7 billion a 24% increase and a best-ever quarterly performance.
Other income totaled $21 million down $5 million compared to 2011.
Interest expense of $135 million was also lower down 9% versus last year.
Income tax expense increased to $608 million mostly driven by higher pretax earnings.
Quarterly net income exceeded the $1-billion mark for the first time in our history.
It was up 28% versus 2011.
The outstanding share balance declined 3% reflecting our share repurchase activity.
These results drove a quarterly earnings record of $2.10 per share a 32% increase versus last year.
Turning now to our top line.
Freight revenue grew 7% to a best-ever quarterly record of $4.9 billion.
Volume growth was up about a 0.5 points.
The mix impact was flat this quarter unlike the first quarter where it was a large positive driver on a year-over-year basis.
Growth in Intermodal traffic and shorter length-of-haul moves such as stone offset the growth impact of higher average revenue per car moves such to shale-related activities.
Fuel surcharge revenue added 2% to our top line growth driven in part from the positive lag impact of our fuel surcharge programs.
The continued benefit from our recently negotiated legacy contracts generated a meaningful step-up in fuel surcharge coverage contributing over 1% in freight revenue growth and roughly $0.05 in earnings per share compared to 2011.
In addition we achieved solid core pricing gains of 4.5%.
However pricing gains this quarter were impacted by the 17% decline in coal volumes.
The combination of solid core pricing and fuel surcharge coverage gains reflect the value of Union Pacific's service offerings and contributed to the record profitability this quarter.
Moving on to the expenses.
Slide 23 provides a summary of our compensation and benefits expense which was down 1% compared to 2011.
Consistent with our recent guidance more moderate inflation drove only a 1.5% increase in costs.
Positives in the quarter include mild weather conditions versus last year's Midwest floods; lower new hire training costs; and generally more efficient operations.
As you know wages for our union employees will increase effective July 1 which will drive inflation costs higher in the second half of the year to roughly 2.5%.
Workforce levels increased 2% in the quarter compared to 2011 driven entirely by increased capital activity including positive train control.
Excluding growth on the capital side we still expect workforce levels to increase for the full year but not at a one-for-one rate with volume growth.
Slide 24 shows fuel expense which totaled $882 million decreasing $22 million versus last year.
The average diesel fuel price was $3.21 per gallon which declined 2% year-over-year.
The mix shift of lower coal volumes and growth in manifest and premium traffic drove a 2% increase in our fuel consumption rate partially offsetting the impact of lower fuel prices.
Purchased services and material expense increased 5% to $542 million driven in part by higher subsidiary contract expenses relating to the 17% growth in subsidiary revenue reflected on our Other Revenue line.
Engineering locomotive and freight car repair expense also increased this quarter driven by increased material usage and inflation costs.
Overall our year-over-year comparison was a bit easier due to the $10 million in flood-related expenses that we incurred last year in this expense line.
Other expenses came in at $190 million down $6 million compared to 2011 driven by lower personal injury expense.
Our recent actuarial study resulted in a larger reduction to our estimate for prior year activity compared to last year.
Conversely equipment and freight damage costs increased roughly $15 million while property tax expense was also up compared to last year.
For the third and fourth quarters we expect the other expense line to be more in the range of what we saw in the first quarter of this year barring any unusual items.
Slide 26 summarizes the remaining 2 expense categories.
Depreciation expense increased 8% to $433 million mainly driven by increased capital spending.
Looking at the full year 2012 we expect depreciation expense to be up around 8% to 9% compared to 2011.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $299 million up 6% from 2011.
Growth in Automotive and Intermodal volumes drove an increase in short-term freight car rental expense which was partially offset by lower locomotive lease expense.
Bringing revenue and expenses together Slide 27 reflects our operating ratio performance.
This quarter we achieved an all-time quarterly best of 67 operating ratio improving 4.3 points compared to last year and more than 1 point better than our previous record set in the third quarter of 2010.
Lower fuel prices contributed to about 1 point of the improvement versus 2011.
For 2012 we've tightened our guidance a bit and we are now targeting a sub-70 full year operating ratio which would be a first-ever in our history.
Our incremental margin after adjusting for fuel price and last year's flood impact was a notable 78% for the quarter highlighting the positive impact of core pricing gains improved fuel surcharge coverage operational efficiencies and growth in attractive new businesses.
That said it's also likely to be the high mark for the year.
Union Pacific's record earnings drove solid free cash flow in the first half of the year but below 2011 due to a 37% increase in capital spending and a 54% increase in our cash dividend payments.
While cash from operations improved year-over-year earnings growth was masked by more than $600 million in higher cash tax payments.
Much of that was driven by the 100% bonus depreciation program in effect last year which significantly reduced our tax payments in 2011.
Although the impact of bonus depreciation will still be a net benefit to free cash flow this year it will result in a headwind compared to 2011 due to the catch-up of prior year's programs and a lower bonus depreciation rate in 2012.
Our balance sheet remains strong supporting our investment-grade credit rating.
At June 30 2012 our adjusted debt-to-cap ratio was 40.6%.
We continue to make opportunistic share repurchases which play an important role in our balanced approach to cash allocation.
Union Pacific's increasing returns over the last several years have enabled us to drive greater shareholder value.
In the second quarter we bought back 3.8 million shares totaling $415 million at an average purchase price of around $110 per share.
Combining dividend payments and share repurchases we returned over $1.4 billion to our shareholders in the first half of 2012 up more than 40% versus last year.
Looking ahead we have 20.2 million shares remaining under our current authorization which expires March 31 2014.
That's a recap of our second quarter results.
Looking forward our quarterly financial comps become more challenging but we still expect to achieve record earnings and a sub-70 operating ratio in 2012.
In addition we're still forecasting volumes to be on the positive side of the ledger for the full year.
Continued growth in domestic Intermodal energy-related shale moves of crude oil frac sand and pipe in addition to strong Automotive and Chemical shipments should offset the Coal decline.
We're committed to achieving real pricing gains driven by the increased value of our service offerings and solid demand in many market sectors.
Our prospects for 2012 supported by Union Pacific's strong value proposition and the strength of our diverse franchise should result in greater profitability and allow us to grow shareholder returns.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jack.
Thanks Rob.
Looking ahead to the second half of the year the global economic outlook has become more uncertain and coal volumes are certainly going to remain a challenge.
However we're going to continue to take advantage of the opportunities provided by our diverse franchise to drive record financial results.
I want to emphasize a point that Lance made.
Union Pacific's commitment to employee and public safety is our #1 priority.
That has not and will not change.
We'll continue to focus on providing efficient service that adds great value for our customers.
We're well positioned for upside while remaining agile in today's changing environment.
That said we still believe in our prospects for growing profitability generating improved returns and increasing shareholder value this year.
So with that let's open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Tom Wadewitz of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Let's see I wanted to see if you could give a bit more commentary on the Coal view.
Your slide shows that in absolute loads it seems like things have bottomed but you do have more difficult comparisons in the second half.
So how would we think about year-over-year? I think you had some stockpile comments.
I didn't catch them all and then I don't know if you want to comment on natural gas within that.
And then do you think the broader -- a little more detail on your outlook for Coal in the second half.
Okay Eric? Yes Tom.
In terms of our Coal outlook as we said earlier our run rate is increasing as weather increase in load.
Coal load demand increases also as natural gas prices increase.
Our coal utility providers become more competitive in terms of using coal versus natural gas.
As we said in the third quarter we will continue to have some tough comps as you saw on the slide even as our volumes sequentially improve which is why we said that third quarter will be down again in the low -- in the second half.
The third quarter we said will be down in the low to mid-teens.
If I could just to add Tom.
To your point on the trough what that slide shows is that our low point was in the second quarter -- on an absolute basis.
Forget the year-over-year for a second.
On an absolute basis we did trough out on our coal in the second quarter and that was at a low on a PRB basis of around 23 trains per day and we have sequentially grown to where we're running at around call it 30 trains per day PRB today.
So we clearly have come out of that trough.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Eric you -- I think you might have mentioned this.
I just didn't catch it.
What was the stockpile level that you -- days in stockpiles you think you're at today? We did -- I don't think we actually mentioned the absolute number there.
The report comes out this afternoon.
We are expecting a reduction in the stockpiles with the report that comes out today or tomorrow.
It will be around the low 20s we think above normal -- in terms of days above normal.
So we are seeing continued and expecting particularly with this kind of weather that you're seeing across the country a reduction in what the stockpile report will show.
Tom I'm a little skeptical of that reported information.
It's going to go and show as Eric said -- the last report that came out said 23 days of available stockpile.
Our customer base is not expecting or is not behaving like they have 23 days of excess coal supplies.
They are ordering more coal.
They are bringing more coal sets on service.
So that is a generalized number and I think it involves all Powder River Basin shipments throughout the United States.
I think in our served territory we might actually be in somewhat better position than what that average stat might indicate.
Yes as Rob mentioned we are seeing our run rate sequentially improve.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
I mean for the second question if I could -- there is so much focus on legacy contracts this year.
I don't think I've heard you talk much about legacy in 2013 but you've shown charts I believe $350 million in legacy business in 2013.
Can you give us a sense of the timing of that? Is that all skewed to the beginning of the year so you'd see kind of a full year benefit? And is that all coal? Or is there some other stuff in it? Tom I would refer you and others to the chart that you've seen us use in the past that kind of lays out the pie chart if you will of legacy where we show in 2013 there's about $350 million of legacy renewals up in 2013.
And most of that is front-end loaded and we haven't broken out precisely but as you know the bulk of what's still in front of us is Coal-related.
Our next question is from the line of Bill Greene of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just -- Rob I want to just to follow up on a comment that you made which is that the decline in Coal affected core price.
Do you know roughly how much that would have affected it if it had just been say flat? Yes roughly it's -- if you recall Bill in the first quarter we said about a 0.5 points of our pricing was hurt if you will by the fall-off in Coal.
That was even worse in the second quarter because Coal was down more.
So it was more than 0.5 points.
Research Division</strong> On core price? On price yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Okay.
And then the -- I realize that there's a lot of moving parts here and there's uncertainty but I think -- correct me if I'm wrong.
Usually the third quarter is typically your best OR quarter and Coal at least sequentially looks like it will be a little bit better.
So I sort of look at kind of the sub-70s target and I say well given where the first half was the second half should be better.
So that feels like a pretty modest guide.
Or is there a part here that we have to remember just in terms of a cost metric or something as we model the second half? Go ahead out there [ph] Rob.
Go for it.
We're going to fight over this one.
Bill I mean we're -- there's a lot of uncertainty out there in the world so we're -- I would just say this that we're not going to solve for the 70.
Just like all the previous targets we've set we're going to get there as efficiently as we can and do it the right way and that's through a combination of good service safe service pricing it right and running it efficiently.
So don't look at the 70 as a solve-for number.
We're going to get there as efficiently as we can but there's a lot of uncertainties in front of us.
Research Division</strong> No that's fair.
That's fair.
Just one last detail.
I think in the past you tried to estimate a market size for some of the shale play.
Can you just remind us sort of what numbers you've thrown out? Eric? I'm not sure we've thrown out any absolute total market size numbers.
What we have said in the past is that we would kind of double our volumes this year.
And what we've said today is that as we look at the outlook our current outlook that's about a 2% impact on our volume growth.
I'm not sure we've given an ultimate market size impact of the shale play in the past.
I think Bill one of the things we've said in the past was we expected our shale business when you add it all up together to be somewhere close to 400 000 carloads this year.
And as Eric reported there's a couple of customer facilities that are a little slower coming online.
We're probably going to fall a little bit short of the 400 000 but not too terribly much.
Our next question is from the line of Scott Group with Wolfe Trahan.
So Rob I just wanted to follow up on the yields and you talked about how mix was kind of a neutral in the quarter after a big positive in the first quarter.
How should we think about mix in the back half of the year? And then just to follow-up on the point about Coal as the coal volume declines moderate is it fair that we should think that the same-store pricing increases a little bit relative to that 4.5% in the second quarter? I'm not giving guidance on the mix.
But as you know Scott it really is dependent upon the -- what actually moves.
So we saw a fairly dramatic shift from first quarter to second quarter on that mix which is a result of as I pointed out worse Coal more Intermodal more manifest lower ARC moves.
We're not troubled by that by the way because what we're focused on -- whatever the business is that we move we're focused on doing it handling it right and generating strong returns as we proved in the second quarter even without the benefit of mix.
So I can't give you guidance on the mix other than it's not an excuse for us to turn in less attractive margins and we'll continue to approach it that way.
And in terms of your question on the core pricing yes.
I mean just generally speaking again we're not giving pricing guidance but to your point as Coal strengthens we should achieve the benefit of some of those renegotiated contracts as that business picks up.
Okay that's great.
And then just want to understand your thoughts on grain given what's going on in the Midwest and the drought conditions.
When you talk about eliminating the upside corn potential does that mean you guys are now thinking about grain volumes being flat going forward starting in third quarter? Or is there still a chance that we get positive grain volumes given the comps being easy and what still look like strong wheat production and wheat exports? Yes if you look at -- or if you go back a couple of months and look at the USDA projections they projected this year to be almost a bumper year one of the best years one of the best 3 or 4 best years in terms of crop yield crop production.
That clearly has come down with the current drought conditions.
I think the latest USDA projections are it's going to be relatively flat versus last year in terms of crop yield crop production and so our outlook in our ag business is probably relatively similar to that.
We actually have -- I think Scott if you look at it we have somewhat easier comparisons in the third and fourth quarters so we're hopeful that at least if it doesn't get any worse than what they're currently talking about we're hoping that we could still do a little better from a volume perspective in the second half than last year.
Our next question is from the line of Justin Yagerman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was curious as we look at Coal and kind of trend out through the remainder of the year at this point if you were assuming normal weather when do you get to normal stockpiles that your utilities serve? And then how do you think about directionality 2013 volumes? I know this is difficult but just curious I mean from your standpoint how you're thinking about next year and -- in terms of flat down or up.
Justin you're right.
This is really difficult.
If the kind of weather pattern that we see right now persists through the end of year we should reach a point where we'll be okay with the stockpiles and our Coal business should be coming back to a more normal kind of a run rate for us.
That's a pretty big "if".
We've seen the weather change dramatically off and on.
So you've been with us a long time.
You've seen that happen from year to year.
If the stockpiles stay where they are come in on a normal range we'll have a pretty good year next year in our Coal business and hopefully it won't have the aberrations.
We'll see.
And then the other swing factor is what's going to happen with natural gas prices.
Will they act the way the forward curve is kind of looking and continue to edge their way up? If that happens we'll have a better prospect for a good year next year.
If they crater on us and fall back down again it will be a little more difficult.
Research Division</strong> So you still see Western coal I mean as solidly baseload.
You haven't seen permanent switching that you think would impair that growth rate looking out over the next couple of years.
That's right.
We do not see anything happening right at the moment that causes us to think the growth rate is impaired.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the export side there's been a little bit of news with you guys and Peabody.
Just curious where you guys are trending right now in terms of exports and how you think about that business on a go-forward basis.
Last year we moved about 5 million tons of export coal.
We think we're on a track run to increase that 60% to about 8 million tons this year with the recent announcement as we continue to look for other opportunities for port capacity to export.
Our next question is from the line of Brandon Oglenski with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Jack when we go back to your Analyst Day a couple of years ago when you guys laid out the strategy to get to 65 or 67 I don't think anyone envisioned that you'd be getting to numbers close to that this quickly.
So could you just talk about some of the risks? I mean obviously we've seen Coal come down.
It hasn't had much impact.
But what could get in the way of achieving that maybe a little bit faster than was anticipated a couple of years ago? Brandon I think as we laid that out in terms of the 67 to 65 the thing that I would put into perspective for you is we have no intention of stopping there.
If we get there sooner rather than later then the goal just drops below the 65 at some point in time.
We're going to continue to look at that.
Certainly right now when you look at what are the things that could get in the way there's a wide assortment of those things all of which we're up to the challenge of managing.
You have the U.S.
economic situation that will -- taking place.
Of course out here everyone there's a lot in the press about the financial cliff that's approaching depending on how the tax bills and things get settled out.
That's certainly a risk to us.
There's always a concern about what happens with fuel prices long-term and near-term.
We're watching carefully the global positioning of the global economy.
When you look at anywhere between 30% to 40% in any given quarter of our business originates or terminates in another country certainly what happens in China what happens in the Eurozone and all those things can represent risk.
Interestingly enough they can also represent opportunity for us.
So as the economic climate of Europe becomes more unstable that raises the prospects in the United States of possibly moving some of that manufacturing to our economy and particularly if we continue to see a positive impact on energy prices as a result of shale and shale development and those kinds of things.
So there's a whole variety of things that -- up to and including weather.
As we're seeing this year weather can be a friend; weather can be an enemy.
All of those things kind of play their role.
But that being said the path may be a little saw-toothed in getting there but we will get there.
And when we get there we'll reassess where we're headed and we'll keep our direction on providing the most efficiency and productivity while adding great value for our customers.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And maybe one for Eric as well on Intermodal which has actually seen some pretty favorable growth a little bit above the economy here.
How's your Mutual Commitment Program rolling out through the year? We're excited about our Mutual Commitment Program.
We think it is a strong leverage value for us in the opportunity -- in the marketplace.
We're seeing a number of our customers adopt it as they're recognizing the value of it.
And throughout this year in terms of the volumes that we're seeing that have gone through our MCP program we -- they're aligned with what we expect and what we have planned and we're excited about the continued upside opportunity.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Hoexter with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess Rob just to clarify you're not in any way kind of talking down second half with the sub-70 OR.
Are you just looking at that? And I guess to that point I guess on the employee cost side you mentioned that you were looking at it to go up I guess or union wages were going up.
It was -- I guess on a per-employee basis costs were down 3% this quarter.
Should we be looking for that to spike back up on a year-over-year basis in the back half? Yes Ken a couple of points.
And I am not saying things are going to get worse in the second half.
What I'm simply giving is the record guidance of operating performance on a full year basis.
And remember that long-term target of 65 67 is a full year number.
And as I pointed on my comments we've never in our history had a sub-70 operating ratio for a full year and we're focused on doing that.
But again we're not going to solve for 70.
We're going to get there as efficiently as we can.
And if we get sub-70 -- the more sub we can get the better.
In terms of the point I was making on the cost side just simply calling out that the inflation rate will go up a little bit in the third quarter as a result of the labor agreements.
In -- I think I pointed out in my comments that that labor line inflation will look more like 2.5% rather than the 1.5% that it was in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> So we could still -- assuming if it was down 3% on a per-employee basis if you add a point you could still see that aiding results then right? Yes Ken that is -- you're exactly right.
Those are still very good efficiency and productivity numbers from a cost standpoint.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then Jack is there any expectation for an update or proposed rulemaking or anything out of the STB following last summer's hearings that you would expect in the back half? You know Ken the STB has made some comments that would lead us to believe they are going to have some sort of announcement pronouncement finding or something.
We don't know what that is yet nor do we know the timing of it.
So the answer to your question is I just don't know.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's nothing that's heating up at least you've heard behind the scenes or anything to lead you to believe that something is more imminent than not.
No.
No change.
Our next question is from the line of Jason Seidl of Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two lines of questioning one on the Intermodal front the other on pricing.
You mentioned that you're up to a record 173 boxes per train.
I was wondering sort of where you think you're going to max out.
In other words how much capacity do you have left in the Intermodal network? Jason I'll take the -- this is Lance.
I'll take the capacity question.
We've said this before that we've got plenty of upside in terms of productivity and train size.
And specific to the Intermodal business it's corridor-specific but I think historically we've said we could go -- we could see getting to a "200 boxes per train" kind of number.
But again it just depends on where the growth is but we've got upside potential on virtually every corridor where Intermodal is and we're investing to enable future growth as we speak.
So candidly I just don't see a limit at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
My other question is around the pricing.
And the comment was made just so I understand it 4.5% is in the core.
Coal hurt you by more than 0.5%.
My question is what percent of the business right now is sort of tied to inflationary indexes? And how do you think that kind of was calculated into the mix? Is that -- did that hurt that core pricing number a bit? So what we've historically said is that about 75% of our business is -- and that is in contracts long-term contracts.
If you look at the percent of our business that's related to ALIF [ph] or RCAF increases that's been -- we've historically said that's about 17% of our business.
And that number was only 1.5% in the second quarter so...
LLC Research Division</strong> It would have a negative impact on the core pricing number that you gave.
Yes to some extent.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Ceraso of Crdit Suisse Group.
Research Division</strong> Some questions as it relates to Coal and pricing.
Can you give us an idea -- outside of legacy I know you mentioned the $350 million of legacy for next year but outside of that maybe contracts that have turned over more recently what percent of your Coal business is going to reprice in 2013? And what should we expect if we assume -- let's say we assume natural gas is in the $2.50 to $3 range do you anticipate that pricing can be steady? Or is it going to have to come down? What's your view if we make that assumption? Rob do you want to handle the legacy...
Yes.
Let me just say this Chris in terms of your question we don't give the specifics in terms of how much business we're negotiating.
But just rest assured we're in constant negotiations across our entire book of business daily.
I mean we talk a lot about the marquee if you will legacy renewals but we don't give specific guidance numbers beyond that so -- it's just a constant part of our business and a constant part of what we do in our marketing and sales team.
Yes let me talk about the second part of your question on -- it sounded like you were asking do we address our prices based on natural gas prices? We absolutely price to the market.
We don't adjust our prices based on commodity prices.
We believe we have a strong value proposition and we believe the marketplace is recognizing our service and value proposition and we're continuing to price to that value proposition across our entire book of business including Coal.
Research Division</strong> Right yes.
I wasn't suggesting it was tied directly to the price but more in line with your comment about the market.
If natural gas is in the $2.50 to $3 range what is the market for PRB coal? Is it competitive and you would expect therefore that prices are okay? Yes.
I think there is a number of different kind of public assessments that suggests that for PRB coal $2.50 $3 natural gas price is about the place where PRB coal becomes more competitive versus gas for many of our serving utilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up the yields in the Chemicals business were a little bit weak.
I'm sorry if I missed the reason for that.
Was it a mix issue? Or what was going on there? Mix.
Research Division</strong> What specifically? Well as you know our fertilizer business was down as we talked about in our comments.
And also I think we talked about last quarter in terms of the tremendous growth that we have in our crude oil business in our crude oil franchise.
We talked about last quarter I believe that some of that business is shorter haul so there's a downward mix impact associated with that.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a question on the Intermodal side.
Eric just on the -- can you give us a pricing update? I just want to get a sense of what kind of the current dynamic feels like right now.
We've had fuel prices come in a little bit on the domestic side.
I'm just kind of wondering with the dynamic is with truck and kind of how you're feeling about that market.
Yes.
That's a good question.
I think if you look at our results for the quarter you could see that we're getting strong pricing in the quarter.
Truck costs are going up.
There is a competitive environment out there and the Intermodal business as you know is historically competitive with truck.
But we are seeing a pressure on the costs for truck providers and we've had a pretty good results in the quarter in terms of our growth in Intermodal pricing as you've seen.
Research Division</strong> So the recent move we've had which I know has kind of bounced off of the bottom recently on fuel hasn't necessarily had much of an impact from a market share perspective.
We still see there's strong opportunity for pricing out there.
Certainly as you go through any period of time you might see a period of time where a trucker wants to price something on fuel but that doesn't change our strategy and we're continuing to drive our value proposition.
So we have not seen much of an impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just a little bit bigger picture as far as some headlines we've seen recently about the potential for East Coast labor issues I'm just wondering how much does that get involved in conversations you have with customers as you're thinking about kind of the midsummer kind of late early fall type of a peak discussion? Does it come up at all? Are people thinking about it? Customers are thinking about it.
We have not seen much of an impact to date.
Certainly if there were an East Coast labor impact customers are saying that they would use West Coast options.
But to date we haven't seen much of an impact.
Research Division</strong> And from a mutual commitment perspective does that give you just one more kind of a little bit more leverage in those discussions? Or is that not yet kind of on the table? To date we're not really seeing that being much of an impact.
Our next question is from the line of Peter Nesvold of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think most of my questions have been addressed.
And maybe just a quick one on velocity.
So velocity continues to improve here.
Is there any way of thinking about that on an apples-to-apples basis? I suspect with coal volumes down that's going to help velocity all else equal.
And then I guess what I'm trying to think about is as volumes start coming back at some point are you going to be able to hold the velocity gains that you're putting up right now as a result of the capital projects? Or should we assume that some of that starts to revert to the mean again? Yes.
So the way to think about velocity the way we look at velocity we believe given the profiles that we've got looking forward we can maintain the kind of velocity we've got right now.
Our capital programs target where we have constraints in the network and so we -- presuming we're effectively attacking those constraints which we have been that -- those really won't get in the way too much.
What might be a risk to go-forward velocity is if growth happens in a rapid unexpected fashion somewhere where we're highly constrained that can be a negative.
But even this year we've shown that where we get a significant growth in the South where we are highly constrained we've been able to manage through that largely and still put up good numbers.
If you're looking year-over-year Peter the one thing to remember is that last year we were hurt very badly by the drought in the South and the flooding situation in terms of our overall velocity so...
That's right.
Year-over-year our current operating environment is much more favorable.
Our next question is from the line of Walter Spracklin of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> All my questions have been answered except one.
I just wanted to touch in here on the peak season.
I know one of your competitors in the East earlier this week talked about a little bit more of a muted peak season and I think yours sort of was around that same line.
I think you mentioned positive but muted.
I think that's where we were last year.
I'm just curious as to whether that comment was relative to last year.
Or are we looking at kind of the same thing as you saw last year? Yes.
I mean when we talk about peak season we typically talk rough numbers 10% to 12% improvement in volumes for the peak season vis--vis the period of time before the peak season.
This year our current outlook is probably 5% to 8% improvement in volumes which will be muted from what we typically see but we think it will be a little stronger than what we've seen last year.
Our next question is from Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> The question is around the shale business.
I think in aggregate we think about it as a potential 400 000-carload business.
Can you walk us through the length-of-haul dynamics in there? I heard you say crude was a shorter haul but I think frac sand is long.
And then right now what's the mix of say unit train businesses versus manifest? Okay Eric? Yes.
There is a variety of locations.
There's a balance there some longer-haul business some short-haul business.
As you know a sizable position of our crude oil business is joint line business with the BN and the CP out of the Bakken.
So that has an impact.
The crude oil business coming out of the Eagle Ford Shale going to St.
James that's a shorter distance.
So there's a number of ins and outs in terms of length of haul depending on where the business is flowing from and where the sand business is flowing from.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then unit train versus manifest? The vast majority of our crude oil business is unit train business.
Historically our sand business has been manifest business but we're driving more unit train opportunities with the current volumes.
I think our current outlook in terms of the percent of unit trains in our sand business will be about 15%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up somewhat unrelated but the Intermodal peak you just referenced does the uptake in MCP smooth that peak? I'm just trying to separate what's happening in the economy versus how the MCP might smooth your peak round it off [ph]...
Yes.
Again if you recall the MCP the intent of that was to smooth our year-round volumes.
The peak driver really is market drivers and to the extent someone does not have an MCP agreement with us they would have to try to get boxes and service on a peak spot-price basis.
Our next question is from the line of John Larkin of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> We talked a little bit about labor inflation earlier on.
Rob could you give us an outlook for overall maybe inflation x fuel for the second half and then through 2013? And then how much of that inflation you believe the company might be able to offset through a continuation of its productivity enhancements? Yes John.
Overall inflation I'd say is in the 2% to 3% range overall for us.
And as you -- which is down as you know from last year.
And our going-in position -- we haven't finalized our 2013 numbers.
But I can just tell you this that our going-in position just at it is every year is to offset -- we challenge ourselves to offset inflation with productivity.
And there's lumpiness in there and mix will play a role in that but that's the way we approach it.
And if we hit half of that let's say that's doing pretty good.
And if you look historically we've achieved above that half offsetting inflation with productivity.
But we'll go in with that kind of mindset.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then as a follow-on on the 4.5% core price improvement year-over-year if you backed out the impact of the legacy repricing that's taken place over the last 12 months what would the core pricing have been in that case? John this is Rob again.
Roughly 1.5 points of the 4.5% was legacy and again that was held back because of the lack of volume in Coal that we talked about.
But rough numbers I'd say about 1.5 points of that.
Our next question is from the line of David Vernon of Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions: one on petroleum one Intermodal.
For the petroleum business it ramped pretty substantially 28.8 to 55.2 on the carload side.
Is that a good run-rate number? Or are you guys still in the process of bringing on more destinations and facilities? And where do you think that run rate will sort of level out over the next 6 months? We're still in the process of bringing on more destinations and facilities.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And do you -- can you give us a sense for how much more that will ramp? Obviously the 92% growth is probably a little high.
Yes.
We're expecting additional growth.
It will probably sequentially not be as high as the growth that we've seen but we are expecting additional growth.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us any kind of direction like 10 20 30 50? David this is Rob.
No is the answer to that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I just figured I ask.
And then for the Intermodal business the volume decline you seem to have sort of offset the prior weakness and the pricing on it.
At least the reported RPU number is down.
Are those things independent? Or have you guys taken the throttle off a little bit on pricing in Intermodal to offset some of that share loss? I'm not sure I understand the question.
Would you say that again? LLC.
Research Division</strong> So in the last couple of quarters you have been getting to double-digit RPU gains in Intermodal and volume declines in Intermodal.
This quarter you got a 3% gain in Intermodal volume and a 6% gain in Intermodal RPU.
Are those independent? Or are those -- or are you -- or have you guys taken the throttle off a little bit on pricing aspirations in Domestic Intermodal? Yes I think those are independent.
I think if you look in the previous quarters we basically were able to renegotiate some legacy things and get fuel where we had not historically gotten fuel.
So that's where you see that.
In terms of the volume improvement that you see this quarter we think that that's really market-related-driven.
We are still focused and maintaining our price strategy and are excited about the results of that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So market-driven from a domestic or international standpoint? Yes in -- the international business has strengthened a little stronger than what we expected in our earlier outlook.
And our domestic business in terms of highway conversions are also coming very strong.
Our next question is from the line of Jeff Kauffman of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Sal Vitale on for Jeff.
Just a quick question on the fuel surcharge side.
So fuel surcharge increased coverage accounted for roughly 1% of revenue growth this quarter.
I think it was also similar roughly 1% last quarter.
How sustainable is this? So at what point will this start to tail off? I mean what percentage of your overall book of businesses currently have -- currently -- do you currently assess fuel surcharge on? Okay Rob? Yes.
Sal well you've probably heard me say that we're not going to sleep at night until we have 100% of our book of business with adequate fuel surcharge recovery mechanisms in place and we're not there yet.
But we did take a big step forward with the big legacy renewals that we talked about that were both at the end of 2011 and early 2012 and that's what you're seeing the continuation of here in the second quarter.
So I would not expect that once we lap these legacy renewals that you'll see as big a step forward as you saw in the second quarter.
But we would expect it to still move directionally in the right direction because we're not at 100% to where we want to be.
Research Division</strong> And also you said you start to lap that in the third quarter.
Or is it the fourth quarter? No it would be fourth quarter.
End of fourth quarter is when some of that started.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then just -- if I could just revisit the labor cost side.
That was very impressive labor performance.
So you're saying that the labor inflation for the second half should be about a point higher than it was in the second quarter.
So would it be fair to assume that your labor expense per employee would be down on a year-over-year basis in the second half or flattish? We've got capital employees in there as well including the positive train control.
So I mean directionally -- I can't give an answer but that's probably not directionally off Sal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question if I could.
What are you currently playing -- paying for fuel? What is your current fuel price? Over -- just slightly over $3 right now and going up slightly going up.
Our next question is from the line of Brad Delco of Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Eric I guess this is for you.
A little bit more on the Intermodal pricing.
It seems as if IMCs are expecting or commented that pricing was a little bit weaker and I thought maybe I could get an update from you on how many boxes you have parked what your expectations are in the back half of the year.
And would you expect your domestic Intermodal pricing to be maybe decelerating on a year-over-year basis in the back half of the year versus what we saw last year? Yes I don't think we've publicly talked about how many domestic boxes we have stored.
We view that as a competitive -- internal competitive information.
We as you know are focused on price.
We're focused on our value proposition and we certainly understand the value of our services and that's where we're pricing them at.
I can't speak to other IMCs and others in terms of how they are pricing their services but we are pricing ours based on our value proposition and our results in the quarter demonstrate that.
And we're not changing our strategy in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well if I ask it another way would you say your value proposition is as strong this year as it was last year? We are as highly confident of our value proposition.
As I said -- as you said you've seen what some of the IMCs have reported and what they have said.
I would just say we have a strong belief in our value proposition and if the business is not re-investable if the business we don't believe is supportive of our value proposition we're okay not getting every piece of business.
At this time I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Koraleski for closing comments.
Well great.
Thank you everyone for joining us on the call this morning.
And we're looking forward to speaking with you again in October.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
Welcome to the Union Pacific Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Jack Koraleski CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you.
Mr.
Koraleski you may begin.
Thank you Rob.
And good morning everybody and welcome to Union Pacific's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With me here in Omaha today are Rob Knight our Chief Financial Officer; Eric Butler Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; and Lance Fritz our Executive Vice President of Operations.
Union Pacific achieved an all time record quarter generating an earnings milestone of $2.19 per share an increase of 18% compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Despite a 12% decline in coal volumes and significantly weaker steel and scrap metal markets we generated best-ever financial results this quarter across the board.
We achieved solid core pricing gains we managed our network efficiently and we delivered on the benefits of our diverse franchise with growth in many of our other markets.
In addition our focus on providing safe efficient high-quality service is reflected in the substantial achievements made this quarter in both employees' safety and customer satisfaction.
Putting it all together we're creating value for our customers and we're driving increased financial returns for our shareholders.
So with that we're going to get started this morning.
We'll start off with Eric Butler.
Eric? Thanks Jack and good morning.
Let's start with a look at customer satisfaction which came in at 94 for the quarter.
It's up 3 points from third quarter last year and it sets a new best-ever mark topping the 93 received in the first 2 quarters earlier this year.
We appreciate customer recognition of the strength of our value proposition and we're working to make it even stronger.
In the third quarter volume came in at about flat versus last year as the diversity of our franchise provided enough opportunities for growth to offset volume declines in 3 of the groups.
Chemicals and Automotive continued to lead the way with very strong growth and Intermodal was also up.
Offsetting that good news was continued weakness in Coal and Ag and the first down quarter this year for Industrial Products as the global steel markets softened.
The Coal decline continues to have a significant impact on overall volume.
Setting Coal aside the other 5 groups were up 3%.
Core price improved 5% but with the lower fuel surcharge offsetting expanded fuel surcharge coverage average revenue per car grew 4%.
The combination of flat revenue and improved average revenue per car pushed freight revenue to the $5 billion mark for the first time.
Let's take a closer look at each of the 6 groups.
Ag Products revenue was down 4% as the 2% drop in volume combined with the mix driven 2% decline in average revenue per car.
Third quarter saw a record low UP grain shipments with the decline driven by weak corn volume.
Corn shipments were off due to reductions in livestock feeding increased feeding from local crops that were less likely to move rail and a decline in ethanol production that impacted volume to forward ethanol plants.
Record soybean shipments in September a result of strong world demand only partially offset the weakness in corn.
Grain products shipments also declined down 7% largely driven by ethanol and DDGs.
Ethanol volume was down 12% with producer's margins under pressure due to reduced demand for gasoline lower exports and higher corn costs.
DDGS fell 28% with an increased consumption by feeders close to the point of production favoring movement by truck.
Food &amp; Refrigerated shipments again provided some good news growing 9% with import beer barley and canned goods leading the way.
Automotive volume grew 13% which combined with the 2% improvement in average revenue per car produced the 15% increase in revenue.
Growth rates in auto production and sales remained strong in the third quarter driven by pent-up demand and improved credit availability.
The average age of cars on the road remains high by historic standards and consumers are replacing them with new more fuel efficient and technologically equipped models.
For the quarter UP finished vehicles shipments increased 13% and parts volume grew 12%.
Chemicals volume grew 18% which combined with the slight mix driven decline in average revenue per car to produce a 17% increase in revenue.
Petroleum carloads were up 95% with continued robust growth in crude oil where volume increased 300%.
Plastics shipments grew 8% supported by increased market demand and new business.
Industrial Chemicals and LPG again posted solid gains.
And fertilizer shipments were up 1% the first quarterly growth that we've seen this year.
Now turning to Coal.
You could see from the chart of weekly loadings that volumes picked up from the second quarter levels as expected but continued to tracked below last year.
Low natural gas prices and high stockpiles continue to challenge the coal market and as a result our volume was down 12%.
That comparison was made a little tougher by the boost last year as volume got from the makeup of flood impacted shipments.
Revenue declined 5% as the 9% improvement in average revenue per car only partially offset the drop in volume.
Southern Powder River Basin coal shipments reflected a soft demand with tonnage down 13%.
Also contributing to the decline was the continued impact of 2 contract losses last year which more than offset business wins.
While Colorado/Utah coal faces the same challenges in the U.S.
market demand for this high BTU coal in the international market led to increased shipments to Europe and Mexico driving tonnage up 2%.
Industrial Products revenue grew 2% as the 4% improvement in average revenue per car overcame a 2% decline in volume.
Although overall drilling activity has slowed growth to new sands facility and continued expansion of horizontal drilling which requires more sand per well for frac-ing drove an 11% increase in our nonmetallic minerals shipments.
Our rock shipments were up 6% with strong demand into the Eagle Ford Shale play and construction activity in the Houston area.
The housing market also continued to show some signs of life boosting lumber shipments to 12%.
Unfortunately the strong shelling in those markets was offset by declines in steel and scrap export ore and hazardous waste.
Export scrap steel shipments to the Pacific Rim have declined as global steel demand has softened and the slowdown in drilling activity has slowed the rapid growth in shipments by drillers that we saw earlier this year.
As a result steel and scrap shipments declined 11%.
Production issues at the mine led to a significant drop in our export iron ore move driving a 31% decrease in metallic minerals shipments.
The iron ore shipments recently resumed and we expect a slow return over the coming months.
Finally as in prior quarters this year a ramp down in government funding impacted our uranium tailings move leading to a 35% decline in hazardous waste shipment.
Intermodal revenue grew 8% as a 7% improvement in average revenue per unit combined with the 1% increase in volume.
With the economic recovery continuing its slow pace retail has proceeded cautiously in the third quarter.
As expected that produced a muted peak season with our third quarter international volume up 1%.
Continued success converting highway business to rail both in containers and trailers puts domestic Intermodal volume up 1%.
Let me close with the look at what we see for the fourth quarter.
While you can probably find support for a wide range of economic scenarios we expect the economy to at best hold steady and it wouldn't be a surprise to see some slight weakening as we move toward year's end.
Given that here's what we see for each of our businesses over the next few months both the good news and the challenges.
As we've seen with strong September loadings world demand for soybean and soybean meals should give Ag and export opportunity in our refrigerated and beer business should continue to grow.
Unfortunately the diminished corn crop is expected to impact opportunity in both export and domestic markets and we expect to see third quarter challenges that dampened ethanol and DDGS to continue.
As a result Ag will likely be down in the low single-digit range.
Seasonally adjusted auto sales in September hit 14.9 million the highest level since March 2008 despite lower incentives offered to purchasers compared to last year and the previous month.
We take that as an encouraging sign that the auto industry momentum will carry through the fourth quarter.
Crude oil should continue to drive Chemicals growth and most other chemicals markets are expected to continue the solid performance we've seen throughout the year.
Export demand is a bright spot for Coal but low natural gas prices and high stockpile levels should keep overall Coal volume tracking below last year with the decline expected to be in the low- to mid-teens.
Although the pace has slowed shale energy-related growth should continue in Industrial Products with the softening in the global steel market expected to continue to be a challenge.
International Intermodal should stay ahead of last year and we expect continued success converting Highway business to rail in domestic Intermodal.
Put it all together and the fourth quarter will look likely much like the third.
While the diversity of our franchise will help offset the challenges we will again look to expected price gains to drive revenue growth.
With that I'll turn it over to Lance.
Thanks Eric and good morning.
Let's start with safety.
Year-to-date we've achieved an all-time record low reportable personal injury rate 10% better than last year through 3 quarters.
The improvement accelerated in the third quarter which was 23% better than last year's third quarter.
Moving to rail equipment incidents or derailments.
Our year-to-date reportable rate improved 1% compared with 2011.
While not visible in this number we have made progress in our focus area of yard and industry track derailments.
In public safety the grade-crossing incident rate increased 15% year-to-date.
The combined effects of higher rail traffic in the South which has more great crossing density than our overall network and our growth in highway commercial traffic has increased our grade-crossing incident exposure.
On the positive side we've made progress in isolating high-risk areas and have taken steps to improve or remove crossings of concern.
And we continue to focus on community support and driver behavior to address this increased risk.
Our safety strategy helps keep our network strong and resilient and as a result our network remains fluid and continues to operate efficiently.
During the quarter Hurricane Isaac disrupted operations in the eastern portion of our network.
We were well-prepared and sustained little damage and quickly restored operations.
In comparison to last year's drought the weather impact this quarter was minor.
In addition to milder weather the operating team adapted the TE [ph] plan locomotives and crews to manage shifts in mix including growth in manifest and premium volumes in the South.
In Texas and Louisiana we are effectively utilizing the existing infrastructure and building new capacity.
As a result velocity improved 6% to 26.1 miles per hour.
Our service scorecard illustrates UP's customer value proposition.
The local operating teams continue to provide great service as reflected by Industry Spot &amp; Pull which tied the second quarter record of 95%.
The third quarter Service Delivery Index a measure of how well we are meeting overall customer commitments also improved from 2011 levels.
While the UP team is successfully managing the carload surge in the South we have growth capacity in other parts of the system with about 500 employees furloughed and around 870 locomotives in storage.
Moving on to network productivity.
Record low third quarter slow order miles were down 35% from last year.
Our network is in excellent shape reflecting the investment in replacement capital that has hardened our infrastructure and reduced service failures.
Moving to the upper right car utilization improved 6% year-over-year and reflects the improvement in network velocity and fluidity.
In the lower left Intermodal train lengths grew to an all-time quarterly record of 176 boxes per train improving 2% on a 1% increase in Intermodal volumes compared to 2011.
And holding our own in manifest train lengths is noteworthy given that much of the manifest growth occurred in the South which is the most train size constrained area of our network.
The chart in the lower right demonstrates our team is effectively leveraging volumes through UP's extensive manifest terminal infrastructure to generate a 2% improvement in the number of cars switched per employee day compared to last year.
We've used the UP way to reduce variability on our operation while increasing the role every employee place on their work teams.
Employee engagement is an important part of our operating strategy and has had a significant impact.
Our employees are bringing their expertise to bear on standardizing their work and removing variability.
To expand a bit more on growth in the South third quarter volumes in the South were up 5% versus last year and up 6% year-to-date.
In fact traffic in the South is back to pre-recession volumes.
We've met the challenge with agility repositioning horsepower and manpower to adapt to shifting demand.
We've adjusted car routings to leverage available terminal capacity and modified train starts to maintain fluid operations and to increase local service frequency.
In addition the capital investments we continue to make in the South are generating an excellent return and are having a positive impact.
They support our diverse book of business including increased shale related volumes growing Mexico and Intermodal business and export grain shipments to the Gulf.
So with that we remain positive on our operating outlook for 2012 and our ability to achieve network improvements on various fronts.
A more mature total safety culture stronger relationships with local communities and improved infrastructure position us well to achieve our goal of another record safety year.
We will provide customers with a value proposition that supports growth with high levels of service.
And we are well-positioned to react to dynamic shifts in volume while generating productivity and to invest a record amount of capital that generates attractive returns.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
Let's start by summarizing our third quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 5% to an all-time quarterly record of $5.3 billion primarily driven by core pricing gain.
Operating expense totaled $3.6 billion increasing 1%.
Operating income totaled $1.8 billion a 13% increase and a best-ever quarterly performance.
Below the line other income totaled $28 million up $11 million compared to 2011.
Interest expense of $137 million was down 4% versus last year driven by lower average interest rates.
Income tax expense increased to $635 million mostly driven by higher pretax earnings.
Net income was up 15% versus 2011 setting an all-time best for any quarter.
The outstanding share balance declined 3% reflecting our share repurchase activity.
These results drove a best-ever quarterly earnings record of $2.19 per share an 18% increase versus last year.
Turning now to our top line.
Freight revenue grew 4% topping the $5 billion mark this quarter.
Volumes were down slightly about 0.5 point.
The revenue mix impact was flat-ish year-over-year.
Growth in higher ARC shale related moves was offset by lower steel and scrap shipments in addition to shorter length of haul moves including stone.
In addition rising fuel prices throughout the quarter resulted in a negative lag impact on our fuel recovery creating a headwind of roughly 1% in freight revenue.
As you may recall we benefited from a tailwind on fuel recovery in the third quarter last year.
Similar to the first half we saw the benefit from renegotiated legacy contracts with a meaningful step up in fuel surcharge coverage offsetting the 1% fuel recovery headwind and contributing roughly $0.05 in earnings per share compared to 2011.
In addition we achieved solid core pricing gains of 5% which was a key contributor to record profitability this quarter.
The 0.5 point improvement from the second quarter pricing gains resulted from the sequential uptick in our coal volumes.
Moving on to the expense side.
Slide 22 provides a summary of our compensation and benefits expense which was about flat with last year.
Lower volume reduced new hire training costs and solid operations mostly offset labor inflation.
And you'll recall that last year in the third quarter we incurred about $18 million of drought-related labor expenses making for an easier comp this year.
Workforce levels increased 1.5% in the quarter compared to 2011 driven primarily by increased capital and positive train control activity.
Slide 23 shows fuel expense which totaled $880 million decreasing $36 million versus last year.
Lower volumes and a lower consumption rate drove the reduction in fuel expense.
The average diesel fuel price of $3.19 per gallon was basically flat with last year.
However we saw fuel prices rise substantially throughout the quarter.
Charting out fuel prices on a monthly basis this graph illustrates the negative lag impact that we discussed on the fuel surcharge side.
Purchased Services &amp; Materials expense increased 7% to $542 million due to the higher contract expenses incurred by our logistic subsidiaries.
The revenue generated from these expenses is reflected on our Other Revenue line.
Locomotive and freight car repair expense also increased this quarter driven by increased contract expenses material usage and inflation costs.
Depreciation expense increased 10% to $447 million mainly driven by increased capital spending.
Looking at the full year 2012 we expect depreciation expense to be up around 9% compared to 2011.
Slide 25 summarizes the remaining 2 expense categories.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $300 million up 2% from 2011.
Growth in Automotive and Chemical volumes drove an increase in short-term freight car rental expense which was partially offset by lower locomotive and freight car lease expense.
Other expenses came in at $200 million down $7 million compared to 2011.
It was a bit better than what we had projected back in July in part due to lower than expected volumes.
Lower equipment and freight damage expense as well as other cost control measures also contributed to the decrease.
These reductions more than offset the higher property tax and personal injury expenses.
And as Lance just showed you we continued to see improvements in our safety performance.
But remember our comp was more difficult this quarter due to a more favorable prior year adjustment in the third quarter of 2011.
For the fourth quarter we expect the other expense line to be similar to the third quarter results barring any unusual item.
Now let's turn to our operating ratio performance.
We achieved an all-time best quarterly operating ratio of 66.6% improving 2.5 points compared to last year and nearly 0.5 point better than our previous record set last quarter.
Our performance highlights the positive impact of core pricing gains growth in attractive new business and continued focus on productivity initiatives which more than offset the 0.5 point headwind on fuel recovery versus last year.
Union Pacific's record earnings drove solid free cash flow of $640 million year-to-date which reflects $625 million more in capital spending and a 42% increase in cash dividend payments versus 2011.
In addition cash from operations of $4.4 billion dollars includes more than $450 million in higher cash tax payments driven by the catch-up of prior year's bonus depreciation programs and a lower bonus depreciation rate in 2012 versus 2011.
Our balance sheet remains strong supporting our investment grade credit rating.
At quarter end our adjusted debt to cap ratio was 40.2%.
We continue to make opportunistic share repurchases which play an important role in our balanced approach to cash allocation.
In the third quarter we bought back 3.1 million shares at an average purchase price of around $122 per share.
Year-to-date we've repurchased almost 11 million shares averaging around $114 per share.
Combining dividend payments and share repurchases we've returned over $2 billion to our shareholders year-to-date up more than 27% compared to last year.
Looking ahead we have about 17.1 million shares remaining under our current authorization program which expires March 31 2014.
That's a recap of our third quarter results.
Closing out the year we're all mindful of the potential financial cliff consumer sentiment and global economy driving uncertainty in the marketplace.
That said we'll play the hand that the economy deals us.
We'll continue to be nimble and agile aligning resources with demand.
With respect to the fourth quarter we're facing by far the toughest comparison for any quarter that we've seen this year on a number of fronts.
With the additional challenges of coal down in the low- to mid-teens lower Ag shipments and weakness in steel and scrap moves overall volume in the fourth quarter will likely be flat to modestly negative compared to last year.
Yield could also create a headwind again if prices remain at their current high levels.
Although our fourth quarter operating ratio will likely be challenged by higher fuel prices and potentially lower volumes we're confident that solid core pricing gains and our ability to leverage our diverse franchise will drive at least a sub-70 operating ratio again this quarter.
Combine that with our 68% operating ratio year-to-date which was achieved with flat volume it's safe to say that we're well on our way to outpace a full year sub-70 operating ratio for the first time in our history and to achieve record earnings again this year.
Going forward we remain positive on the longer-term prospects and our ability to generate increased shareholder returns.
We look forward to discussing these opportunities with you at our Investor Day conference in Dallas later this month.
So with that I'll turn it back over to Jack.
Well thanks Rob.
And as Rob said as we look out over the next several months the political and financial challenges in the United States and abroad have increased the economic uncertainty.
In this environment we're going to continue to be agile just like we were in the third quarter; we'll adapt to changing market conditions; and we'll leverage our diverse franchise.
But longer term we are very positive about future prospects for the Union Pacific.
We continue to make strategic investments that strengthen and enhance the franchise supporting future business opportunities.
Going forward we remain confident in our ability to provide excellent service increase customer value and generate strong returns for our shareholders.
So with that let's open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Scott Group of Wolfe Trahan.
So one for I'm not sure Jack or Eric on the coal side so can you give us just a sense on where stockpiles are with your customers? And as you think about coal volumes next year I understand another big decline on fourth quarter but when you look out to next year with gas prices where they're at what are you hearing from customers and about maybe switching back to coal with gas at $3.50? Directionally what are you thinking for coal volumes next year? And if there's any color also you can give with respect to pricing and the legacy contracts next year if there is less upside given kind of the structural issues with coal that you see out there.
Okay Scott we'll let Eric take a shot at that.
Eric? Let me talk about stockpiles first.
I think the industry stockpile number is somewhere around 20 days above normal.
If you dissect the eastern versus the western utility I think you'll see a significant difference.
We think in our serving area most of our customers are seeing stockpiles about 5 to 10 days above normal that's significantly lower than what the likely stockpiles are in the east.
There's a lot of uncertainty in the market in terms of coal market share versus natural gas and other sources.
Certainly as the price of natural gas increases that makes it more favorable for coal and so the futures market for the price of natural gas is going up and logically that should make it more favorable for coal.
A lot of uncertainties out there a lot of uncertainties in terms of the current utilities have put in agreements to use natural gas for a period of time.
So over the long-term if natural gas goes up coal improves its competitiveness against natural gas.
Yes.
And I think Scott as you think about it your question about pricing we're not going to get into the details of it.
But I can tell you right now we are not straying away from our strategy which is to price to reinvestable levels.
And if we can't get to reinvestable levels we'll walk away from the business.
And we've stayed strong with that.
It's paid a great -- a bit benefit for us overall.
And we're still -- that's where our head is.
We'll win some we'll lose some.
We feel very good about our capability to take legacy contracts bring it up to market levels and that's where we're going to stay.
Our next question is from the line of Tom Wadewitz of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you a bit about the trend you see in crude oil.
I think through the year you've had some capacity I think some receiving terminal capacity that's come on that has given you step ups in your crude oil activity.
What do you think the near term view would be on crude oil? Do you see a further step up in fourth quarter or would you see kind of stability the next couple of quarters relative to what you had in the third quarter? Eric? We're not giving volume guidance for crude oil but we are seeing -- we have seen a ramp-up throughout the year as you mentioned and there are investments that are continuing to be made particularly at St.
James.
We think as the investments come online that provides the capacity for growth.
And we will see ourselves being able to continue to take advantage of the growth opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess as a second question or a follow-up.
Rob you've seen some I think favorable effects this year probably productivity but also I think maybe contract-related in terms of some of the benefit expenses on the employee costs sort of per worker.
And I wonder if you could get some commentary looking maybe to 2013 would you expect some of those effects to continue or do you think the inflation on a per worker basis is likely to step up a bit? Yes.
Tom I think generally speaking that the trends you're seeing right now should continue.
And just to kind of elaborate a little bit our labor line inflations we'll call around 3% but we challenge ourselves every year to offset 100% of inflation with productivity.
We don't always get 100% but we strive to get at least half -- offset half of the inflation with productivity initiatives.
So that mindset will not change as we head into 2013.
Our next question is from the line of Bill Greene of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Rob in your remarks in the first and second quarters you noted the negative impact on pricing from the loss of coal because if I remember correctly you repriced a fair amount.
I realized there was a sequential improvement but was it still a negative hit in the third quarter given how much coal was down? It depends on what you're comparing it to Bill.
What I pointed out is that -- and you're exactly right in the second quarter -- just to remind everybody what we said in the second quarter we reported 4.5% core price and of course the way we measure price frankly the most conservative way I can think of measuring it is an all-in yield calculation against our entire book of business.
And we said that that second quarter 4.5% core price was negatively impacted by the falloff in coal volumes to the tune of about 0.5 point.
What we then saw in the third quarter was as coal volumes still below last year but coal volumes sequentially improved from the second quarter that picked up about 0.5 point.
So if you looked at the difference between the 4.5% in the second quarter and the 5% that we just reported in the third quarter that variation is driven largely by that increase in coal.
So to your point we're still not running the same levels of volumes that we ran last year but I didn't put a number around that but it clearly was a negative impact versus had we run 36 trains per day out of the Powder River Basin for example.
The interesting thing about that Bill is in the tough coal environment as Rob said we're conservative in terms of our outlook on or how we calculate the price.
What happens when the calendar flips is we now go year-over-year and we won't see the full potential of that pricing show up as core price but where you'll see it is on our operating ratio and our bottom line improvements.
Research Division</strong> Meaning that as coal -- if coal came back next year? Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> But you would still show it as core price I think right? That it would grow if that business comes back at higher prices no? It's a year-over-year comparison.
So for the legacy business that we repriced this year that becomes the new base for next year.
And so what you'll see is just the incremental increase from next year over this year.
You won't see the full benefit of the step-up in core price.
Where you'll see it is in the operating ratio and in the bottom line improvements margin.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe a question on incremental margins.
You guys have done a really nice job for the last couple of quarters with incremental margins even in the absence of volume.
As you look out to the next quarter or 2 in a kind of flat or maybe modestly negative environment can you sustain that type of incremental margins just given how strong the core pricing is? I mean how should we think about that a little bit in 4Q and then even maybe into 1Q? Rob why don't you take that? Yes.
I mean you're exactly right Chris.
We've turned in fabulous incremental margins and really what will -- what would drive that as much as anything is the volume swings that can occur from quarter-to-quarter.
But we're focused as I've said before on core pricing gains productivity initiatives.
And to get to our 65% to 67% OR guidance that we have out there by full year 2015 it assumes that we'll get 50%-ish or better incremental margins from here to there.
And so we aren't giving specific quarter-by-quarter incremental margins but that -- you can take that to mean we're going to continue to be as focused on all of those initiatives that help drive those incremental margins between now and then and then beyond that.
Research Division</strong> And then just switching gears onto the pricing side just when you think about the Intermodal market and obviously a lack of a beginning of a peak so far how do you think about the pricing dynamic and the competition with truck I mean has there been any pressure on that as we moved into October or even in the third quarter for that matter? Eric? We still are hugely excited about our Intermodal strategy.
We think there's lots of upside in terms of conversion from truck to rail.
We believe our rail value proposition has a value proposition to truck and over the road moves.
And we're committed to pricing to the market and ensuring a reinvestable return.
And our outlook in terms of the opportunities for conversion and the value associated with that remains.
Our next question is from the line of Walter Spracklin of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Erin Lytollis in for Walter.
Just on the Intermodal again what would you characterize as the addressable market for truck load conversions within your network area? Can you provide some color around that? Anne in the past what we've said is as we looked out at the potential truck market that would be susceptible to rail conversion in the west.
It's about 11 million annual truck load benefit.
It's a really big number.
So we have a lot of opportunity there.
Eric do you want to expand on that? Yes.
The number as a whole is very large and what we do is we narrow that down to the potential volume moving within a radius of our Intermodal ramps both on the origin and the destination side.
And if you kind of narrow that down and look at what we think -- what portion of that 11 million we think is really attainable it's probably closer to a 3 million to 4 million number.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Hoexter Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> But when you talk -- Eric when you talk about the lost coal contracts when do you loop those 2 and can you give an idea of -- if you're down low-double digits what percent do those lost contracts represent? Eric? We don't talk about specific contracts with customers.
I guess I'm not sure.
Hey Ken I think we're going to lap those contracts in January.
The ones from this year that we lost we'll lap that in January.
Research Division</strong> So I know we're not talking about specific contracts but can you give us an idea of what the run rate would be? Ken this is Rob.
You're asking the run rate on volume or price or what? I'm not sure I understand.
Research Division</strong> On the volume side if you lost 2 and you're going to start lapping those what the underlying run rate would be? We haven't given that guidance.
I mean it's really the factors will drive -- while we did have the loss of the contracts that we've referred to you before of course what will drive what our volumes actually end up doing I realize this isn't exactly what you're asking but what will drive that as Eric elaborated is the price of gas.
Weather is a huge driver in terms of what our volumes will be in the coal business.
And last year recall we had a very mild winter.
We started the year off with very mild weather conditions.
And so weather will be as big a determinant as any in terms of where the volumes are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I can get my follow-up then on in the south you talked about Mexico cross-border -- can you talk about Mexico cross-border volumes and when you're done double tracking the Sunset Corridor? Sure.
If we look at Mexico in the third quarter our Mexico business was up about 6% compared to being flat for the rest of the network.
The primary growth factor was Automotive business which is performing nicely certainly given the start rate that we saw in September at $14.9 million.
So that's all good.
If we look at the Sunset Corridor we are not on an accelerated Sunset Corridor double tracking any longer.
We don't really need that capacity as much as we did in the past so we're finding that out on a logical basis on a need basis.
We'll probably complete somewhere in the neighborhood of 40 to 50 miles this year which would put us somewhere over the 70% double tracked by the time we get to the end of this year.
And Lance do you have anything to add to that? You've got all those numbers right.
Our next question is from the line of Brandon Oglenski of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Could I just come back to the fourth quarter outlook for a sub-70 OR.
It just sounds like you're a little bit more cautious there.
And if I look at the average performance of your company in the last 10 years it's about flat from where we were in the third quarter.
So are there some unique items here? I know few of the headwind but it should be less of a headwind than it was in 3Q.
So what could be driving that OR a little bit higher from the third quarter then? Brandon we're not actually cautious.
We think we'll have sub-70 and we think we'll have a great operating ratio for the year.
Rob do you want to expand on that? Yes.
Just a couple of points.
Your comment that the fuel shouldn't be as much of a headwind I mean that we'll see.
We'll see what the fuel prices.
How that actually plays out would be caution number 1.
Number 2 as Eric walked through the pluses and minuses in each of the commodities we -- there's a lot of uncertainty out there and we gave guidance here that the fourth quarter volumes will be flat to slightly down.
And so those all will be factors.
I mean you're right.
On a historical basis you're 100% right.
But as we head into the fourth quarter this year we'll see how those other factors play out.
The one added risk that we have Brandon for fourth quarter as you get into winter operations and if we were to get dumped on with a major blizzard or something like that we'd have to see what happens with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So maybe more cautious on the economy but still delivering what you guys can then? Absolutely absolutely.
Research Division</strong> And can I just ask a follow-up on pricing then because I think it sounded like you're saying the core pricing comps could be down just a little bit from where they are this year next year and is that because you don't have a lot of legacy to be repriced early in the year? Hey Rob why don't you take that? Yes.
We previously as you all have seen shown sort of a pie chart if you will of legacy renewals that come up because that's dependent upon what the volumes actually turn out to be.
But we've said that there's roughly $350 million of legacy revenue that we'll be competing for and repricing next year which frankly a lot of that's front end loaded.
But we haven't given guidance specifically on what our pricing will look like next year with and without that legacy other than to say that we're going to continue to have a mindset of reinvestability.
We'd say it's going to be an inflation plus kind of pricing environment but we haven't changed our view of and our expectations of what we expect to achieve on pricing.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Ceraso of Credit Suisse Group.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a question about your expectations for Automotive.
I understand sales have been strong but is it fair to say that the comparisons on vehicles that are being produced than what you're carrying get notably tougher in the fourth quarter so maybe we should expect a slower growth in Q4 than what you've seen year-to-date? Chris we're kind of looking at each other here.
We're expecting if the economy stays the way it's planned the SARS rate in September of 14.9 million that would give us some nice momentum going in and we're still in October doing well on the Automotive business.
Eric do you have any view? No.
I mean the overall economic outlook as I've said in terms of Automotive sales is staying strong and recent SARS rate is still growing.
I think the Global Insight in our Automotive industry is both projecting continued strong sales.
And we have a huge Automotive franchise and we'll play in that and get the benefits of that.
Our customer base is very positive very interested in service and making sure that we stand tall in terms of providing equipment and great turnaround times consistent and reliable.
So it's a good outlook for us for the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up about the peak season.
Any comments about how that's shaping up and what you're seeing with regard to surcharges are those sticking? The peak season as we said last quarter we expected it to be muted and it is muted.
Our volumes in the third quarter as we said were up about 1%.
October volumes interestingly enough month-to-date you could see the public car loadings they're up a little bit more.
They're up about 3% 4%.
So the peak season is still muted.
We are remaining focused on our strategy and we're pricing for our value of our service.
Our MCP program is still we think a great strategic advantage for us and we're going forward with it.
Our next question is from the line of Justin Yagerman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question I guess piggybacking way back on Tom Wadewitz's question on shale.
I was curious in terms of how you're thinking about crude oil versus pipeline obviously a bigger issue in terms of takeaway from Bakken south to the Gulf maybe less so Bakken East in terms of the interchanges as you head to eastern refineries.
How should we think about the timeframe for some of that pipeline infrastructure supplanting the crude by rail opportunity that you have what do you think your window is? And I mean in terms of the growth opportunity how big a factor is that? Go ahead Eric.
Interestingly enough you used the word supplanting.
The oil companies have made huge investments both in terms of infrastructure and in terms of railcars.
And our view of the world is that people don't make those investments just for a short-term kind of swings and usage.
So we think crude by rail is here to stay.
We have a value proposition.
It allows a lot of flexibility in terms of moving crude quickly to different destinations in terms of moving by rail versus moving by pipeline.
There will be more pipelines that will be implemented but we think crude by rail will play a role in the market for the foreseeable future.
Yes.
Correct me if I'm wrong Eric but what we see is pipelines are going to come in and that may slow our growth rate so you won't be seeing a 300% year-over-year improvement in oil shipments like you saw this year but we don't expect our oil shipments to go down.
Right that's accurate.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
And then it's kind of a follow-up more of a second question.
But Jack in terms of what you're seeing from the broader economy I just want to reconcile I mean when I look at West Coast port volumes in September when I look at what ISM did in terms of reaccelerating off of the summer even airfreight data.
The economic data looks like you got a little bit better and you could argue politics there probably a little bit but not when it comes to ports and airfreight.
How do you reconcile that with what you guys and most of your competitors are saying you saw in the economy and are you seeing any inventory restocking taking place that would be beneficial in terms of a flow-through here into Q4? Justin so I'm going to give you Jack's view of the world and what I look at internally.
So I kind of take my business and I say okay take the coal downturn off the table take the shale business set it aside because those really aren't the economic barometers.
And to the level that I can take out the global impact on the steel market because that was really the game changer the difference point between third quarter and second quarter for us and the rest of the business things like lumber up 12%; things like the automobile business up 13%; rock business up 6%; domestic Intermodal which was a record for us last year still trending higher again so we're in all likelihood going to have a record performance again this year.
That says that at this point in time the consumers aren't really pulling their horns in and that the overall economic activity is kind of a slow growth which is what we expected going into the year.
And at this point in time in our volume levels as we've gone into the fourth quarter despite all the handwringing over the fiscal cliff and sequestration and all those other kinds of things in our fundamental kind of economic barometers.
And also I should add to that the Industrial Chemical business which is all pretty solid for us.
We're not in bad shape.
The economy seems to be just kind of moving ahead in kind of a slow growth trajectory and that's where we are.
Our next question is from the line of Cherilyn Radbourne of TD Securities.
I just wanted to ask a question with respect to the very strong growth you saw in your Logistics business in the quarter just hoping you could give us a bit of an update on what's going on in that part of the business.
And a comment directionally if you would on how the OR on that revenue compares versus freight revenue.
Eric? I'm assuming you're referring to our union -- all of the -- our subsidiary businesses Union Pacific Distribution Services our streamline subsidiary.
As we look at where that fits in our strategy those are huge leverage values for us in our strategy those entities are really looking to provide in addition to rail services for our Autos customers our Intermodal customers other transload customers.
And we continue to see upside opportunity for those value-added services.
And when you look at that business Cherilyn it's not different than any of our other business.
It's held to the same reinvestability standards and that's how we look at those components as well.
Rob do want to add to that? Yes I just want to add to that.
As that -- and because we're expanding our services here as Eric just outlined which is a great value-add to our customers but in terms of the precise margins that we gain on that it's a good question and it isn't as good a margin but it's asset light business.
So...
It's for the railroad.
Yes.
I mean it's great business for the railroad yes but in terms of -- it does -- the reality of it is and it's a great business for us we love it but in terms of the incremental margins overall and our overall financials it can put a little pressure on that.
But that's okay for us because again overall we're making the progress as an enterprise that we're making and this is all value-added helps our customers and helps our bottom line.
Yes those Logistics business are a core part of our growth strategy.
So for a 20%-plus growth in the quarter that would have had at the margin some kind of a dampening impact on the -- both the OR and the incremental margin.
Very little but yes.
Very little because again that business that moves on the railroad -- so we're distinguishing between the subsidiary company and the railroad the business that moves on the railroad is at reinvestable levels.
Our next question is from the line of Anthony Gallo of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Headcount growth has been outpacing gross ton-miles.
Could you speak to what you expect for headcount growth? And within the gross ton-mile movements how much of that is the mix versus or -- well could you elaborate on what might be driving the changes in gross ton-miles? Rob? Yes.
Let me talk about the headcount first.
I mean let me remind everyone what we've said we expect our overall headcount to move with volumes.
So if volumes are up we expect headcount to move up but not necessarily one-for-one because of productivity initiatives.
Now what drove our increase in headcount this quarter with flat volume was as they had pointed out stronger capital programs and included in those capital programs was a Positive Train Control work.
So if you look at the headcount increases they're really kind of going towards those capital projects as opposed to per se volume today.
As you look at the -- your question on the sort of the revenue ton-miles and gross ton-mile question really the bottom line answer is mix.
And what you're seeing is less coal volumes which are heavier freight carloads for us and more for example autos volumes which are lighter if you will from a gross ton-mile perspective.
So really the answer to that question is a mix.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess a related question fuel consumption was down more than gross ton-miles were down what's going on with fuel consumption as it relates to those miles? Lance you want to handle it? That C rate improvement is really just about traction in what we've talked about previously which is it reflects a fluid network.
The better the network the better our C rate all else equal.
Increased in continued traction with programs like Fuel Masters where we incent our engineers to run their trains in a fuel-efficient manner and the fuel efficiency of our locomotive fleet.
So you see all of it getting traction in this quarter.
Our next question is from the line of Peter Nesvold of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I'm capturing your coal expectations accurately.
So coal started to decline for you in the first quarter down 8% or so year-over-year and it was down 17% year-over-year in 2Q.
Does it seem reasonable to expect that maybe coal volumes flattened out for you by second quarter of '13 and maybe we'd have to assume $3 gas and kind of 1.5% 2% GDP on that? Or do you think where inventory stockpiles are right now that we could see year-over-year declines through the end of '13? Yes that's a really tough question for us to answer Peter because so much of it depends on weather natural gas prices and all of those kinds of issues.
Maybe Eric do you want to take a shot at that? Yes.
There's a lot of uncertainty out there.
We're looking at it closely trying to evaluate what '13 is going to be.
And as Jack said there's a lot of factors and we're looking at them and trying to get our arms around them.
This is kind of reminiscent for me.
A couple of years ago we were at this time sitting on incredibly high stockpiles and thought we were going to be in trouble and then we had one of the coldest winters on record and we saw those stockpiles dissipate very quickly and we ended up having very strong coal loadings.
So weather can have a big impact on us and that certainly is a big point of uncertainty for us.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ben Hartford of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you tell us how much of the business is contractually committed for '13? Or how many -- what percentage of the business is renewed for '13 at the moment? How much remains? Sure Ben.
As we look at it right now we have about 70% of our business that's already locked in place and there's a 30% kind of a number that's out there.
And as we look at that that's pretty constant as we go throughout the year because of the way pricing takes its place and it's not all a year end some things come up quarterly different times of the year.
So at any one point in time we have about 70% and I would say that's -- Eric you want to add to that? Yes.
And the 70% is really the percent of business that's under some kind of customer specific agreement.
It's either a 1-year contract multi-year contract a shorter-term contract.
The 30% is what's under our public agreement or tariff.
And as Jack said we have -- we're repricing all year long throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And then back to a point that was made during the prepared remarks.
Somebody had made the comment that 4Q will look like 3Q.
I wanted to clarify what you were referring to is that EPS earnings OpEx something along those lines that you were referring to? Rob? Yes.
I think Ben the reference that you're probably referring to was Eric's comments on the markets and the volumes that we're seeing because in his last slide he went through sort of pluses and minuses within business group.
But from a volume standpoint we see sort of things continuing and I further gave guidance on the fourth quarter volume that we've got to be flat to slightly negative.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I should interpret it as volumes not necessarily earnings? That's right.
Our next question is coming from the line of Matt Troy of Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just give us an indication of how much of a percentage of your coal book of business ex-legacy is up for renegotiation next year.
I would guess just based on the average contract duration it's something maybe 20% 25% but just maybe trying to frame that for what might be up for negotiation.
And then secondarily given the fact that this is the second time in let's call it half a decade where stockpiles have been challenged now we've got nat gas very low what might be changing? Where are you getting pushback or sensitivities in the negotiations with the utilities in terms of contract negotiations? Are you looking for concessions on take or pay or liquidated damages? Where are the touch points in this we'd call it new era of coal we find ourselves in today? Okay Matt.
Hey Rob why don't you talk about the legacy and then we'll let Eric take the...
Let me just say we're out of gate.
We're not going to get into as much specific that you asked.
I mean you asked a lot of kind of specific questions negotiating strategies and things like that that we're going to probably be very general here in terms of your questions.
But in terms of the legacy if you look at our coal book of business our contracts are 3 to 5 years so as Jack said earlier we're constantly renegotiating contracts.
We've got both legacy renewals next year.
And I refer you to the pie that we've used in the past in terms of how much legacy renewal overall enterprise-wide that come up for renewal next year.
But behind even that then there's just always negotiations taking place throughout the year in our coal business in all of our businesses for that matter so there's nothing unusual there.
But if we have 3- to 5-year contracts then yes call it 20% 25% kind of level of business that's up for renewal every year.
And in terms of negotiation we've said before our -- all negotiations are difficult negotiations.
Our coal customers are very smart savvy transportation providers and they always negotiate every factor that they can negotiate and they're always tough.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And I guess as a follow-up then.
In terms of the threshold and switching threshold with natural gas in the low $3 range is -- it would be nice to hear you folks say just given the periodic rumors you hear in the market that you remain committed to pricing at an inflation cost plus basis or have margin targets and would not be pricing to incent the movement of coal to bring it more competitive relative to that switching cost.
The discipline is still there is that fair? Matt not only is that fair but again let me just kind of reiterate for you that we need to get our business every carload that moves on Union Pacific at a reinvestable level and if it's not we will walk away from it.
We've had a number of customers come to us and say if we don't lower coal rates they're going to go out of business.
Unfortunately if their businesses is dependent on the value of their transportation contract and not on their intrinsic product that they're producing they're probably going to go out of business anyway.
And we also have to be sensitive to all of our other coal customers that are paying us.
So we take a very pragmatic approach.
And we are absolutely committed to pricing to market.
We are absolutely committed to bringing legacy up to market rates.
We're absolutely committed to our reinvestability threshold.
And we think when that's all said and done we will outperform inflation in terms of our total pricing.
Our next question is from the line of John Larkin with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just was wondering about your comments with respect to the southern part of the network could you just remind us how do you define the southern half of the network? Could you sort of review with us what's really driving that tremendous growth there I guess you're back to where you were before the downturn? And then with respect to the comments about train length constraints in the South have you contemplated or are you in fact reallocating some capital dollars to relieve some of those constraints if in fact the growth down in that part of the world is sustainable here going forward? Sure John.
Lance you want to handle those? Sure.
So John the southern region for us is essentially east of El Paso to New Orleans and south of Kansas City.
When we're talking about the South and significant growth it's mostly about Texas and Louisiana and it's mostly about shale-related activity or Industrial Chemicals or the Petro-Chem industry that's benefiting from low natural gas feedstocks.
And when we talked about capacity constraints in train size length in the South the short answer is yes we do know where our bottlenecks are and we are investing capital where -- when we relieve those bottlenecks we generate an excellent return.
As well as the South is just our most significant concentration of single track and it's a significant concentration of manifest traffic at its terminals.
And those things tend to retard train length.
But net-net John as we look forward we will stay ahead of any of those constraints that meaningfully impact the ability to get solid productivity on that traffic growth.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then maybe just a follow-on question.
With respect to the great strides you've made in improving network fluidity could you attribute any of that improvement to the reduction in sort of the heavy tonnage coal traffic? Does that make it easier to run the rest of the network more fluidly? Or are you just on the same trajectory you've been for many years in terms of continuous improvement in network fluidity? Yes I wouldn't attribute it to a decrease in coal movements.
As a matter fact our coal network tends to be one of our most highly productive networks that we run.
So it's actually a headwind depending on what measures you're looking at when coal declines.
I would attribute the improvement to as we've mentioned effective capital investment the UP way and the full engagement of all of our employees on improving their workplace and improving the productivity of their work.
And we're seeing that pay off and that's got a very long run rate.
Our next question is from the line of Keith Schoonmaker of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I think you mentioned a response to an earlier question the cross-border traffic at Mexico is up 6% primarily in Autos.
Could you please comment on potential for increased Mexico Intermodal traffic given your what 6 intersections I think? Sure Eric? We -- if you look at the improvement of the Industrial Production and manufacturing in Mexico we think Mexico is going to be a huge growth opportunity for us both on the Automotive side on the carload side and the Intermodal side.
We have 6 gateways as you mentioned.
We are working with both Mexican rail carriers and we have great franchise lanes from those border points to the consumption markets in the U.S.
So we continue to see Mexico and the outlook for our cross-border business as being one of our growth stories.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just as a follow-up taking a step back revenue to and from Mexico this year is probably just under $2 billion for Union Pacific.
If memory serves you on about 26% or so of Ferromex and this has been for more than a decade.
What would make you interested in owning more than this share and is there any structural barrier to greater ownership stake? Sure.
Rob? Yes.
Keith you're right we own 26% but it really is an investment.
We have great partnership with the FXE but if you look at our book of business we interchange just as much if not more with the Kansas City Southern Mexico.
So we're agnostic if you will in terms of that relationship.
And we're comfortable with that 26% ownership as it is.
The other point I was going to just make about Mexico is as you're pointing out it is one of the strengths of our franchise.
It's a differentiator between us and others in that we are the only railroad that crosses at those 6 border crossings.
And if you look at our overall volumes our Mexican business in the northbound and southbound is running about 6% positive volume growth versus our overall enterprise of being flattish in the third quarter.
So it's outpacing our overall.
And that's because of the great service relationship and the diverse franchise footprint that we have.
Your next question is from the line of Jeff Kauffman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask if you looked at the changes in yield that were caused by product mix versus the changes in yield that may have been brought about by length of haul whether it's carrying grain to the ports for export or chemicals a certain distance what's your best guess at what the impact was to yield between the 2? Rob? Yes.
Jeff I'd say -- let me give you the mix answer because it really is a combination of things.
Length of haul was down about 1% overall.
But really in terms of kind of looking at the yield it really is a mix within a mix story.
I mean if you look at each one of our commodity groups there really is kind of a mix here.
Mix meaning length of haul within each commodity group and sometimes within each customer base.
And our focus on repricing to reinvestability there was mix within that in terms of what you saw in the coal business for example.
So I don't have a straight answer for you other than to say that overall our length of haul was off about 1%.
Our next question is from Kevin Crissey with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm trying to reconcile what our utilities analyst is saying and some of the utilities have been saying in the West about the pricing that they're seeing from the rails relative to 2011 levels kind of 25% decline in pricing overall maybe not so much in the West or maybe it is.
So I'm trying to reconcile that with the discussion of overall pricing and maybe with the -- some lost contracts.
So have you seen -- how can we reconcile that with inflation plus pricing? And is it the length of contracts so that when we hit -- when we're lapping 2011 it's going to be -- you're going to see declining pricing at that point rather than today and how is BNSF related to that? Well Kevin that's an interesting question from the perspective that again just to kind of start at a high level and reiterate our goal is to get business to market levels and to get business up into reinvestable territory.
That's our threshold.
And obviously our goal would be to go past the reinvestable level.
So -- and in the event that you see us lose business I think you could assume from that that we could not meet that criteria and we were prepared to walk away from it because our franchise gives us plenty of opportunities to fill the gap and take advantage of the capacity to move other freight with other customers.
So I don't know how you reconcile what your analyst is reviewing and what customers are telling them.
Eric maybe you want to add a little bit to that? Yes.
I would say your question is a good one.
We can't reconcile it either.
So I mean your question is a good one.
Rob? Yes.
Can I just reiterate that we say overall we look at our enterprise as Jack has said several times we're looking at an inflation plus sort of pricing environment.
And the other thing I would -- your question reminds me to say here is that we're well aware of some of the reports out there that you're referring to about a 25% reduction that is not us I mean we're not confirming that that was a comment and I think frankly the way I interpreted that comment that I know others have picked up on was somebody had an incentive to make that comment based on what they expected as opposed to there being an absolute rate reduction at 25%.
But I can assure you that's not what's happening in our book of business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But let's say even if 25% was way out of the range of a real number even if competitors were out there at a reduced rate that wouldn't show up in the results really because maybe -- versus 2011 it's down but versus the recontracting of 2007 pricing it's probably still up just not as up as much maybe people thought it would be.
So would we see -- if that were the case would we see a delay in the pricing affect because you're renegotiating 5-year old contracts? This is Rob.
I would just -- Kevin I would just say that you've asked sort of theoretical questions.
Again we're not going to confirm or debate what theoretically could happen.
And again we're not giving specific guidance on our pricing other than to -- by commodity other than to say that overall we expect positive pricing reinvestability based -- market based and we expect that to be inflation plus kind of pricing overall like we've seen looking backwards.
Our next question is from the line of David Vernon of Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So Eric just a quick question on the Chemicals business.
We're obviously seeing a lot of projects on the whiteboard or in the planning stages for the Chemicals manufacturing industry.
And I wanted to get a sense from you about when that might actually turn into some volume.
Is it a '13 or a '14 type of thing as far as your industrial development team is kind of working with those customers to look at rail capacity? Yes David that's a good question.
I think at the last quarterly release what we talked about was with the relatively low natural gas prices there were 6 7 8 large chemical companies that have announced expansions particularly in the Gulf region in our sweet spot.
If you look at the ramp-up or the construction timeline for most of those those are late '14 '15 '16 kind of timelines which is I think what we talked about at our last earnings release.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a quick follow-up perhaps Rob could you let us know exactly what the fuel surcharge revenue line was for the quarter? Fuel surcharge revenue line was -- let me look that up here real fast -- around $630 million in the quarter.
Our last question is from the line of Brad Delco with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> The focus on Intermodal I was wondering could you guys provide any color on the commentary about pricing to reinvestable levels? How close are you to that on the Intermodal side? Or maybe asked a different way has your pricing changed at all on a year-over-year basis maybe on a relative basis to what kind of price increases you were looking at last year? Eric? We don't historically talk specifically about pricing by commodity group.
If we look at our kind of historic Intermodal book of business Intermodal historically has been priced at call it a 30% discount to truck.
We think that our value proposition allows us to narrow that discount to truck and that's part of our strategy that we're doing.
And then if you look at the kind of the impact of the trucking industry the regulations changes on drivers increased fuel their costs are going up.
So as their cost goes up that gives us additional headwind in terms of our value proposition.
So we are narrowing the gap between the historical discounts that Intermodal has had to trucks.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe one quick follow-up.
Any plans or color you could give on capacity additions as it pertains to containers and the fleet for next year? Eric? I think quite honestly at this point in time we're looking at it but we haven't made any decisions.
That's right.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Koraleski for closing comments.
Well great.
Before we wrap up this morning just let me reiterate that we recognize there are uncertain economy issues out there and it's going to bring us some challenges over the next several months but we're actually very confident that our team is going to remain agile just as we were in the third quarter.
We're going to continue to leverage the opportunities of our diverse franchise.
We continue to see strong pricing for the balance of this year and I think we're going to have a very successful end to the year.
So thanks so much for joining us on the call today and we look forward to seeing as many of you as we can in our Investor Day in Dallas at the end of this month.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Union Pacific Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Rob Knight CFO for Union Pacific.
Thank you Mr.
Knight you may now begin.
Good morning everybody.
This is Rob Knight and welcome to the Union Pacific Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Unfortunately Jack Koraleski is ill with the flu today and will not be joining us.
But here with me in Omaha are Eric Butler Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; and Lance Fritz Executive Vice President of Operations.
This morning we're pleased to announce that Union Pacific set a new fourth quarter earnings record of $2.19 per share an increase of 10% compared to 2011.
This record also tied our best-ever earnings performance set in the third quarter of 2012.
Our diverse portfolio of business solid core pricing gains and efficient network operations drove these results despite significantly weaker coal and grain markets.
Although it was a challenging year on many fronts 2012 was Union Pacific's most profitable year in our 150-year history.
It's a testament to the strength and diversity of our franchise with the dedication and commitment of our employees and our unrelenting focus on creating value for our customers.
The results are reflected in record achievements that we've made this quarter in both employee safety and customer satisfaction.
Putting it all together it translates into an increased financial returns for our shareholders.
So with that I'll turn it over to Eric Butler.
Thanks Rob and good morning.
Let's start with a look at customer satisfaction which came in at 93 for the quarter a 1-point improvement over last year.
That continued the strong performance we saw throughout 2012 with customers' evaluation of our value proposition up 1 point from 2011 to 93 for the full year setting a new best-ever mark.
We appreciate this recognition from customers and remain focused on driving further improvement in our value offering going forward.
As expected some of our key markets were challenged in the fourth quarter.
And as a result overall volume was down 2.5%.
While Chemicals Automotive and Intermodal group and Industrial Products was flat it wasn't enough to offset the tough market conditions that drove deep declines in Coal and Ag products.
The softening of coal demand continued to significantly impact growth cutting into [ph] the 17% decline in Coal loadings aside the other 5 groups grew 2% despite the shortfall in Ag.
Coal price improved 4% which combined with increased fuel surcharge revenue produced nearly a 5% improvement in average revenue per car.
With price-driven average revenue per car gains outpacing the volume declines freight revenue grew 2% to $4.9 billion.
Let's take a closer look at each of the 6 groups starting with the 2 that saw declines.
Coal was down 17% as high coal stockpiles created by a sluggish economy and low natural gas prices continues to dampen the demand.
A 12% improvement in average revenue per car held the revenue decline to 7%.
With the weakened demand Southern Powder River Basin tonnage declined 19%.
Also contributing to the decline was a continued impact of contract losses which more than offset business wins.
Strong global demand for high BTU coal drove a 6% increase in Colorado/Utah tonnage despite a softer domestic market due to natural -- due to low natural gas prices.
New business also provided a boost.
Late in the quarter much publicized low water levels on the Mississippi curtailed some shipments from both of these origins but with relatively small impact on the overall volume shortfall.
Before we move on to Ag note that this slide clearly shows the challenging comp we have in coal volumes year-over-year in the first quarter.
Ag Products volume was down 9% mix-driven average revenue per car was flat and revenue declined 8%.
A 22% decline in carloadings was driven by last summer's drought which unfortunately had its greatest impact in UP-served territories.
The resulting tight supply of corn has reduced livestock count and lowered the domestic feed grain shipments with increased reliance on local crops in East Texas and Arkansas also impacting our volume.
Feed grain and wheat exports also declined with improved world supply and higher U.S.
prices.
Grain product shipments declined 6% with reduced demand for gasoline and high corn prices curtailing ethanol production driving a 17% decline in ethanol shipments.
Food and refrigerated shipments offered some good news growing 8%.
The 78% increase in sugar shipments driven by spot opportunity was a big contributor while malt and barley carloads increased over 40%.
Our Automotive volume grew 9% which combined with a 5% increase in average revenue per car produced a 14% increase in revenues.
Pent-up demand and improved credit availability again drove sales in the fourth quarter with year-end incentives also providing a boost as the auto industry's growth rate continued to outpace the overall economy.
With consumer confidence reaching a 54-month high in November and new vehicles offering more features and improved fuel efficiencies many continue to find in a compelling time to buy.
For the quarter UP finished vehicle shipments grew 7% with parts volume up 13%.
Chemicals volume increased 14%.
Mix-impacted average revenue per car was flat and revenue grew 15% leading the way again with petroleum products where a 69% increase in volume was driven by over 160% growth in crude oil.
As has been the case all year while crude oil has seen substantial growth other chemical segments continued to put up solid if more modest numbers.
Industrial chems grew 8%.
Plastics boosted by new business and solid export demand was up 7%.
And soda ash grew 4% with growth in the export market.
Dampening the good news was an 8% decline in fertilizer primarily driven by soft international demand for potash.
Industrial Products revenue grew -- increased 3% even as volume remained flat driven by a 3% improvement in average revenue per car.
Rock shipments grew 14% with increased construction activity mostly in the Houston area which also contributed to a 16% growth in cement volumes.
Lumber shipments were up 17% as housing starts showed solid year-over-year improvement.
Nonmetallic minerals saw modest growth up 2%.
But a number of other investor markets faced some challenges in the quarter.
Hazardous waste volume fell 48% as the ramp-down of government funding again impacted our uranium tailing shipments.
Excluding this decline our Industrial Products volume would have been up 2%.
A drop in gas-related drilling activity lower steel mill utilization and softer demand for export scrap was reflected in a 9% decline in steel and scrap.
Continued mine production issues hampered export iron ore shipments leading to a 28% drop in metallic minerals.
Intermodal revenue grew 6% as a 5% improvement in average revenue per unit combined with a 2% increase in volumes.
International Intermodal was flat with a relatively weak peak season.
A November strike at the Los Angeles and Long Beach ports had minimal impact.
Domestic Intermodal shipments grew 4% with continued success in converting highway freight to rail in both containers and trailers.
A closer look at how we see our business shaping up in 2013.
Even with an uncertain economic outlook our diverse franchise still provides opportunities to grow.
As in the fourth quarter the biggest challenges are expected to be tough market conditions in Coal and Ag Products.
High coal stockpiles are expected to hamper recovery in coal demand.
And a loss of one legacy contract beginning this year will also have an impact.
That combination will likely drive a slight decline in coal volume for the year despite expected continued growth in export volumes as global demand remain strong.
We expect the first quarter to see a steeper decline likely in the mid-teens driven by the high stockpiles with some additional impact from continued low river levels.
Diminished 2012 grain crops should impact Ag Products throughout the first half with first quarter volume expected to be down in the high single-digit range.
Hopefully we'll see a trend -- a return to trend line yields when the crops come in later in the year which could offer some opportunity.
Food &amp; Refrigerated is expected to see slow growth.
Automotive volumes should keep pace with the auto industry's expected growth.
Crude oil is expected to continue as one of our strongest growth markets but the pace will ease against 2012's larger base.
Most other chemicals markets should remain solid and we're expecting fertilizer to start growing again.
An improved housing market should boost lumber shipments and growth in construction is expected to support increases in rock metals and other related markets with metals also benefiting from the projected growth in the auto industry.
Anticipated shale growth will also give our metals and minerals a boost.
On the downside we expect the falloff in wind business reduced military shipments and the diminished federal funding should again impact hazardous waste.
Highway conversion should continue to drive Domestic Intermodal.
International Intermodal may be challenged in the first half by the economy.
But a stronger economy and improved housing market are expected to produce opportunities in the second half of 2013.
Our strong value proposition will again support business development efforts across all 6 groups with highway conversion opportunities playing the role in both our carload and Intermodal businesses.
Across the groups we'll continue to develop opportunities in Mexico where our unparalleled ability to link their stronger economic growth with U.S.
origins and destinations is the strength of our franchise.
I mentioned the 2013 legacy contract loss but we successfully retained and repriced 80% of the $350 million we competed for providing a solid foundation for our 2013 price plan.
As a result while we're cautious we expect a slight volume increase to combine with price gains to drive profitable revenue growth.
With that I'll turn it over to Lance.
Thank you Eric and good morning.
So let's start the operating update with safety.
We achieved another all-time record low reportable personal injury rate in 2012.
It was 12% better than 2011 and our fifth consecutive year of improvement.
Training process improvements capital investments and total safety culture combined to further reduce our environmental and behavioral risks.
We've also reduced the severity of injuries to a record low this year.
Moving to rail equipment incidents or derailments our full year reportable rate improved 2% compared with 2011.
Yard and industry track derailments a major focus of the operating team improved year-over-year.
Track-caused derailments declined considerably reflecting the investments we've made in maintaining our infrastructure.
In public safety the grade-crossing incident rate increased 13% in 2012.
As I've mentioned before the combination of increased rail traffic in the south which has a higher grade crossing density than our overall network and growth in highway traffic which is driven by increased economic activity in parts of our network has increased our grade-crossing incident exposure.
On the positive side we've made progress identifying and isolating high-risk locations and improving or removing crossings of concern.
We are starting to see a turning point.
And although we still have a significant amount of work to do I think we're moving in the right direction.
Our safety strategy helps keep our network strong and resilient.
And as a result we're operating an efficient and fluid network which is reflected in the 4% improvement in velocity compared to 2011.
In fact we came very close to matching our fourth quarter record set in 2009 despite running 9% higher volumes.
This year we've clearly demonstrated agility and resiliency in managing through the shifts in mix including growth in manifest and premium volumes in the South and lower coal shipments in the North.
Our improved network performance has been driven by a combination of process efficiency gains and capacity and expansion projects.
The process improvements reflect our execution of Lean manufacturing principles which we call the UP Way which engages our entire labor force in the design and implementation of standard work.
Our service scorecard illustrates UP's customer value proposition.
The local operating teams continue to provide great service as reflected by Industry Spot &amp; Pull which set a best-ever fourth quarter record of 95%.
The fourth quarter Service Delivery Index which is a measure of how well we are meeting overall customer commitments also improved from 2011.
The Service Delivery Index is leveraged by the fact that we periodically improve service commitments to our customers.
In other words the 89% in 2012 is measured against a more difficult standard than the 89% in 2008 reflecting our commitment to constantly improve the service product for our customers.
Moving on to network productivity fourth quarter slow order miles improved to an all-time record low down 31% from last year.
Our network is in excellent shape reflecting the investment in replacement capital that has hardened our infrastructure and reduced service failures.
As we exited 2012 over 99% of our railroad was free of slow orders.
Moving to the upper right car utilization improved 5% year-over-year reflecting the improvement in network velocity and fluidity and just shy of our all-time quarterly record set in 2009.
In the lower left Intermodal train lengths grew to a fourth quarter record of 174 boxes per train improving 2% compared to 2011.
Manifest train length is also holding strong given that much of the manifest growth occurred in the South which is the most constrained area of our network.
We've used the UP Way to reduce variability in our operations while increasing the role every employee plays on their work teams.
Employee engagement is critical to our operating strategy and has had a significant impact.
Our employees are utilizing their expertise to standardize their work and to remove variability.
To expand a bit more on growth in the South fourth quarter volumes in the South were up 3% versus 2011 and up 5% for the full year.
Traffic in the South has returned to pre-recession levels.
We've met the challenge with agility repositioning horsepower and manpower to adapt to shifting demand.
We have adjusted car routings to leverage available terminal capacity and modified train starts to maintain fluid operations and to increase local service frequency.
While the UP team is successfully managing the carload surge in the South we have growth capacity in other parts of the system with about 800 employees per load and around 1 000 locomotives in storage.
In addition the capital investments we continue to make in the South are generating an excellent return and are having a positive impact.
They support our diverse book of business including increased shale-related volumes Gulf Coast chemical traffic and growing Mexico and Intermodal business.
Moving on to this year's capital plan.
For 2013 we're planning to invest around $3.6 billion which is down slightly from the $3.7 billion mark that we spent in 2012.
Our spending for 2012 was slightly higher than our $3.6 billion projection as we took advantage of mild weather conditions during the fourth quarter to further advance some projects.
More than half of our planned 2013 capital investment is replacement spending while approximately $1 billion will be invested in service growth and productivity projects.
Capacity commercial facilities and equipment are the primary drivers.
Major projects include work on the Santa Teresa New Mexico facility which should be completed by early 2014 and continuation of various projects in the South to support our diverse and growing book of business in that region.
We're buying 100 new road locomotives under our long-term purchase commitment which is part of our Tier 4 strategy.
We also plan to acquire around 900 freight cars to serve as replacement for older assets and to meet expected business growth.
In addition we're increasing our Positive Train Control spend this year to approximately $450 million.
For 2012 we've invested nearly $750 million of our estimated $2 billion projected spend.
Although it's unlikely the industry will meet the 2015 deadline we're making a good-faith effort to do so and working closely with regulators as we implement the new technology.
In summary we feel very good about our overall performance in 2012 and the improvements we've made in light of the dynamic market and geographical shifts.
Our network is strong fluid and resilient.
I'm going to carry that momentum forward and continue to focus on those critical areas that will drive further improvement achieving record safety results driven by the commitment to value safety above all driving year-over-year service and productivity improvement by engaging all of our employees through the UP Way and providing customers with a value proposition that supports growth with high levels of service.
We'll take advantage of growth where it shows up but effectively manage the network and resources if it doesn't.
And we remain well positioned to handle dynamic shifts in volume while generating continued productivity gains and great returns on our invested capital going forward.
With that I'll turn it back over to Rob.
Thanks Lance.
Let's start by summarizing our fourth quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 3% to a fourth quarter record of more than $5.2 billion driven by core pricing gains and increased fuel surcharge recovery.
Operating expense totaled $3.5 billion increasing 1%.
Operating income grew 7% to $1.7 billion also setting a best-ever fourth quarter record.
Below the line other income totaled $43 million down $11 million compared to 2011.
Interest expense of $128 million was down 9% driven by lower average interest rates and some capitalized interest.
Income tax expense increased to $604 million mostly driven by higher pretax earnings.
Net income grew 7% versus 2011 while the outstanding share balance declined 3% as a result of our share repurchase activity.
These results combined to produce a fourth quarter earnings record of $2.19 per share up 10% versus 2011.
Turning now to our top line.
Freight revenue grew 2% to $4.9 billion.
Volume was down about 2.5 points.
Revenue mix was also unfavorable driven by lower grain shipments and growth in shorter length of haul stone move [ph].
Higher fuel prices and a positive lag impact on recovery drove higher fuel surcharges adding roughly 1 point in freight revenue growth.
In addition we saw the benefit from legacy contracts renegotiated in late 2011 and early 2012 that expanded our fuel surcharge coverage.
This generated an additional 0.5 point of revenue growth.
The impact in the fourth quarter was less than 1 full point of revenue growth that we saw earlier in the year as we lacked some of those legacy renewals during the fourth quarter.
We also achieved solid core pricing gains of 4% which was a key contributor to our fourth quarter financial performance.
Lower coal volumes again hindered further pricing gains.
Moving to the expense side Slide 23 provides a summary of our compensation and benefits expense which decreased 2% from 2011.
Lower volume costs and solid operations more than offset higher training costs and modest inflationary pressures.
In addition we received an IRS refund of around $20 million of payroll taxes which also drove costs lower in the fourth quarter.
Workforce levels increased 2.5% in the quarter mostly driven by more employees in the training pipeline and increased capital and Positive Train Control activities.
As you recall we tempered hiring a bit in the fourth quarter of 2011 based on expected volume levels and mix shifts.
In 2012 labor inflation came in around 2.5%.
For 2013 we expect it to be a bigger hurdle around 3%.
Also our workforce levels excluding capital should grow in 2013 if volumes increase but not at a 1-for-1 rate.
Turning to the next slide fuel expense totaled $920 million decreasing $15 million versus 2011.
Cost reductions driven by a 5% decline in gross ton miles more than offset the impact of a 3% increase in our average diesel fuel price versus 2011.
In addition our consumption rates increased 1% driven by lower coal volumes.
Purchased services and material expense increased 5% to $533 million due to higher contract expenses incurred by our logistics subsidiaries.
The revenue generated from these expenses is reflected in our other revenue line.
Joint facility maintenance expense and locomotive repair expense also increased this quarter.
Depreciation expense increased 10% to $453 million mainly driven by increased capital spending program.
In 2013 depreciation expense will continue to increase but not at the 9% rate that we saw for the full year 2012.
The combination of a favorable rate study and lower gross ton miles will result in an increase of around 3% to 4% versus 2012.
Slide 26 summarizes the remaining 2 expense categories.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $302 million up 4% from 2011.
Growth in Automotive volumes drove higher freight car rental expense which was partially offset by lower locomotive lease expense.
Other expenses came in at $182 million down $9 million compared to 2011.
It was a little bit better than what we have projected in October in part due to lower-than-expected volumes.
Lower equipment property and freight damage expense as well as other cost control measures also contributed to this decrease.
Conversely personal injury and property tax expense increased compared to 2011.
For the full year 2013 we expect the other expense line to be more in the neighborhood of $225 million a quarter barring any unusual items.
Higher property taxes and challenging year-over-year comps in personal injury expense will add upward pressure in addition to any volume-related expenses.
Now let's turn to our operating ratio performance.
We achieved a record fourth quarter operating ratio of 67.1% improving over 1 point compared to last year.
On a full year basis we generated a best-ever 67.8% operating ratio the first sub-70% performance in our history.
Our performance highlights the positive impact of solid core pricing gains growth in attractive new businesses and continued focus on productivity initiatives.
And this improvement was accomplished without the benefit of any volume growth.
Looking ahead we remain committed to achieving our sub-65% operating ratio target by 2017.
Slide 28 provides a summary of our 2012 earnings with a full year income statement.
I'll walk through a few of the highlights from our record-setting year.
Operating revenue achieved an all-time record of $20.9 billion.
Operating income also set a new best-ever mark of $6.7 billion topping 2011's record by over $1 billion or 18%.
And net income of $3.9 billion and earnings per share of $8.27 also set new historic annual records.
Union Pacific's record full year earnings generated strong free cash flow of $1.4 billion which reflects over $560 million more in capital spending and a 37% increase in cash dividend payments versus 2011.
In addition cash from operations of nearly $6.2 billion includes more than $900 million in higher cash tax payment.
Over half of that was driven by the catch-up of prior year's bonus depreciation programs and a lower bonus depreciation rate in 2012 versus 2011.
On a positive note we'll see the benefits from a new bonus depreciation program in 2013 which will drive an added boost to free cash flow of around $400 million this year from what we've previously discussed with you in October.
The net benefit which includes the impact of prior year's programs will be roughly the same in 2013 as it was in 2012.
Our balance sheet remains strong supporting our investment-grade credit rating.
At December 31 2012 our adjusted debt-to-cap ratio was 39.1% lower than this year's trend due to the pull ahead of $450 million in debt maturities from the first quarter of 2013 to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Slide 30 shows our full year 2012 capital investment of $3.7 billion.
Our preliminary capital plan for 2013 is around $3.6 billion down slightly from the 2012 levels.
While spending on Positive Train Control is growing we'll be spending less on locomotive acquisitions this year.
The chart on the right reflects our achievements in generating returns on these investments.
Return on invested capital was a record 14% in 2012 up over 1.5 points from 2011.
Returns must continue to improve to support the significantly higher asset replacement costs and investments required to achieve our safety service and growth initiatives.
Beyond funding our capital programs our record profitability and strong cash generation have enabled us to grow shareholder returns.
After increasing our dividend per share 58% in 2011 we raised it an additional 15% last year.
For 2012 our declared dividends totaled $2.49 per share achieving our target payout ratio of 30%.
In addition we continue to make opportunistic share repurchases which play an important role in our balanced approach to cash allocation.
In the fourth quarter we bought back over 2 million shares at an average purchase price of around $122 per share.
Full year purchases totaled 12.8 million shares averaging $115 per share.
Combining dividend payments and share repurchases we returned over $2.6 billion to our shareholders in 2012 up 16% compared to 2011.
Looking ahead we have about 15 million shares remaining under our current authorization which expires March 31 2014.
So that's a wrap-up of 2012.
We're now focused on the opportunities and challenges of 2013.
As we discussed in our October Investor Day Conference we're cautious on the economic outlook for this year.
We're expecting many of the same challenges that we faced in 2012.
We'll be working through these issues including the dynamics of the domestic energy markets and the carryover impact of the drought.
We're also focused on Washington as they work through the various fiscal challenges.
We'll be watching to see how it impacts what we currently see as a gradually improving economy.
But if industrial production grows at around 2% as projected we would expect strength in other areas to offset the shortfall in coal driving slightly positive volume growth for us this year.
That said we successfully navigated through the complexities of 2012 and we'll continue to follow that same strategy in 2013.
We remain agile and leverage the strengths of our diverse franchise.
As we look out over the year we're expecting to see a stronger second half relative to 2012.
We're clearly going to have our challenges in the first quarter with very tough year-over-year comps in coal and grain volumes as Eric described.
Despite the challenges on the volume side we continue to target inflation plus pricing gains.
We should also realize the benefits from continued productivity and network efficiencies.
Assuming the economy takes a positive step forward and fuel prices are stable we expect to achieve another record financial year generating best-ever marks in operating ratio and earnings which will drive increased shareholder returns.
So with that let's open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Tom Wadewitz of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to surprise you here with a question on coal.
I guess I'm sure you'll get a lot on that but anyways can you give us some thoughts around what might drive upside or downside to your -- your view on coal volumes? I think you're saying coal volumes are probably full year down a little bit.
What would be the scenario maybe gas price level natural gas price level that would drive some upside? And also in terms of risk to the downside how are you thinking about the impact of the Edison Mission bankruptcy and whether you're factoring in lower volumes there into your comments on coal? Thanks Tom.
As you say there are a lot of uncertainty in terms of the coal outlook and environment certainly on the downside regulatory environmental changes in Washington that could have continued negative impact on the Coal business and the coal market share.
Certainly the natural gas the price of natural gas can also have impacts on the downside and the upside.
Right now we're expecting natural gas prices to remain in the $3.54 range for the year and -- but on the upside as natural gas price goes up that will drive more business to coal.
If you look at the coal market share full year market share for 2012 we're not expecting substantially higher coal market share vis--vis natural gas for 2013 maybe 1 point or 2 higher but basically flat in terms of overall market share but there would be upside and downside to that.
In terms of the announced bankruptcies that are out there we are working closely with our customers we work with them as they're working through those difficult times.
We also are doing what we need to do to ensure that we are protecting our corporate interest.
As we're going through the process as you know the way the bankruptcies work customers have the right to look at contracts.
And we're working with them as they're going through that process and we'll continue to work with them.
Tom if I could just add a couple of more points to Eric's comments on the drivers of coal.
Remember we said in October at our conference there was about a 10 million-ton contract loss so that's factored obviously into our 2013.
And the other variable I'd remind everyone that can impact our coal volumes up or down is weather.
That's always the case.
The biggest driver is when we have a deep cold winter season and more importantly how early how long and how deep will the summer season be and that can always influence our volumes.
Our next question is from the line of Bill Greene of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was curious what do we make about when you mentioned these contract losses it seems like that happened last year with some of the legacy repricing same thing this year.
Does that suggest that some of the competitors are being a bit more aggressive on price than you'd expect? How do we sort of take that? If I can just make a comment and then I'll turn it over to Eric.
I mean Bill that's -- we're negotiating contracts every day of the week.
There's a lot of visibility given probably to the legacy renewals but I would just say that we compete vigorously every day of the week on whether it's a legacy contract or non-legacy.
So it doesn't strike us as unusual.
That's the business we're in that there's constantly negotiations taking place and there are factors like price and service et cetera that go into those equations.
But Eric do you want to elaborate? Yes I'll add to that Bill.
Price negotiations as Rob said I mean they're always difficult.
We always compete in the marketplace.
We expect to win some we expect to lose some but our strategy remains the same.
We're going to be reinvestable.
We have had that strategy for many years now and we remain dedicated to that strategy and focused on it.
I mentioned that for 2012 we had about $350 million in legacy.
We retained about 80% of that and we feel pretty good about that retention rate.
Research Division</strong> Is return on capital metrics now up around 14% CapEx coming down? Is there sort of something to think about there where the returns have gotten better you slowed the growth in the CapEx? I'm not sure sort of if that suggests kind of maybe limited opportunity to keep taking up price because the way the returns are getting from a regulatory standpoint is there -- maybe Rob you can sort of comment on how to think about that.
Yes though I wouldn't read too much into that connection in terms of the slight lead reduction the $3.6 billion planned spend this year versus 2012 $3.7 billion and the ROIC.
I would say that as we've said all along and we walked our talk here over the last several years is we have to improve our returns to justify those kinds of capital investments and that's the takeaway here and that's how we look at every capital investment.
In terms of there being a slight reduction from year-to-year in capital spend that's really more timing issues.
We expect to spend more as I mentioned and as Lance mentioned on Positive Train Control spending this year but less on locomotives.
We'll take 100 locomotives this year.
And last year we did 200.
So those are all factors.
Replacement spending remains strong and hasn't changed.
That's a key investment that we spend every year.
And the other thing that we talked about last couple years and we'll continue into 2013 as we direct more capital spending in the southern part of our network because of the growth prospects that we are seeing there and the return expectations so that would be my answer in terms of how we look at our capital spending.
And I wouldn't read anything in the slight reduction this year.
Lance you want to add? I'll just add Bill that we're not at a loss for excellent projects to invest in.
Our next question is from the line of Justin Yagerman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess on the contract -- the legacy contract dealings this year I wanted to -- maybe asking Bill's question a little bit differently.
Of the 20% that you did not retain is that business that went to a competitor or is that business that is no longer existent and it wasn't really up for renewal? Justin as I said before we compete against both our direct rail competitors.
We compete certainly against alternative sources of fuel.
The 20% that I'm referring to went to a competitor.
And as I said we are -- we compete [ph] all the time we're comfortable with the 80% we retained.
And our strategy is we want to move our business at reinvestable levels.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then a follow-up I'm curious you talked a little bit about the crude growth rate declining as we look out in 2013 albeit staying [ph] at a relatively high level.
How much of that is pipeline supplanting some of the movement of crude-by-rail along the Bakken south line? And then also if you could talk a bit about some of the opportunities that you see as we move through this year or maybe into next year that'd be helpful.
You gave some good guidance last year around what kind of shale-related carloads you expect this year.
Maybe an update on how you see that trending in 2013.
Eric? Yes our -- as we mentioned all throughout last year our shale-related business grew tremendously.
I think we've mentioned possibly about 80% [ph] last year.
Just because of the size of the base we certainly are not going to see that same growth rate in 2013.
We are expecting to see solid growth.
As I mentioned in my comments the crude oil side of our business will be one of the strongest part of our business so we're still excited about that.
In terms of your pipeline comment there are -- there is additional pipeline capacity coming on.
We did mention at our Dallas discussion when we were there that the number as the capacity of pipeline is coming on I think probably are barely keeping up with the production increases.
So production increases are growing rapidly that even the pipeline capacity increases so we still see a place for rail type or crude-by-rail in the market for the foreseeable future.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Hoexter with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just because it sounds like nobody's touched on coal yet one more on coal for you.
But on the -- can we read into that lost contract that this was one of those that was won before the pricing paradigm kicked in? Was this kind of naturally on somebody else's network that is shifting over or is competition increasing on some of the baseload operation given the lighter volumes? Ken I would just say and Eric can expand on this that we always have we always will compete vigorously in our business.
Coal's no different but coal clearly is an area where we do.
But Eric want to comment on this? Yes the contract Ken that we're referring to was a legacy contract.
I mean we've talked about our legacy contracts for many years.
It was one of our legacy contracts.
And as we've been saying for years our strategy is to ensure that we price at market rates and that we attain reinvestable rates.
Research Division</strong> I understand it was legacy but was it one that had been won during kind of the heated battles of before the legacy pricing contract kicked in before like '03 '04? Was that a contract that had been won maybe based on price and therefore you viewed it as not a core part of your network or was this just a competed [ph] business? Ken let me just say I wouldn't get too hung up on the timing of when those discussions took place or when the decision was made.
And of course we don't have visibility absolutely to when they made the ultimate decision.
We know when we were informed.
But I would also just say the piece of business we're talking about in October and November we called it out it was about 10 million tons of coal it fits nicely with our competitor and that's all we're probably getting into on that.
Our next question is from the line of Brandon Oglenski of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This question is I think for Jack but when we think about 2013 a slower economy and maybe a little bit less year-on-year tailwind from those legacy renewals that you had early last year how should we be thinking about the OR expansion? I mean you had a lot in 2012.
Is it going to be diminished from those levels of gains but still a pretty positive turn? I'm sorry could you repeat your question? Research Division</strong> I'm just asking with a soft economy less contribution from legacy renewals that you had last year how should we be thinking about OR expansion in 2013? Yes let me -- this is Rob.
Remember we gave guidance of hitting a sub-65% operating ratio target by 2017.
We've previously given a 65% to 67% by 2015.
And if we can't keep backing it up we had previously given a lower -- the low 70s and we previously gave 75%.
But we've always said we're going to get there as efficiently safely as we can.
We're not using that as a hard stop.
We're going to get there as early as we possibly can assuming markets cooperate.
But we're going to focus on safety service productivity and with that service comes our confidence that we're going to be able to get core real pricing gains.
We define that as inflation plus.
Those are still the same principles that are driving us forward.
To your point does the tail sort of get a little slower as you get into the 60s where we are today as you head to that 65%? Sure.
The slope of the line coming from 87% to 67% is a pretty dramatic slope.
Going from 67% to that sub-65% target is a little bit different slope but our focus and our commitment and our confidence of making progress hasn't changed at all.
So we're going to continue to drive the same principles that got us to where we are as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Well and how do we think about core pricing gains this year? You've been running in the 4% 4.5% range.
And I understand that with coal coming off last year obviously you didn't get the full benefit in your calculation of those coal contracts that were renegotiated.
But should we be assuming something similar to 4% throughout '13? We don't give specific guidance on the pricing numbers other than to say that it's going to be inflation plus or real pricing gains.
The other thing that I would remind you is as we look backwards we're not giving guidance going forward on this.
As we look backwards remember that we've obtained from legacy renewals 1.5% to 2% from legacy in our core pricing gains.
So depending on the timing and how much legacy you have in any particular period will influence certainly how much pricing you get.
But even ex-legacy that can be lumpy from the time that contracts come up for renewal in the legacy front.
But non-legacy we're confident that we'll get that inflation plus overall pricing number and that's the guidance that we're giving as we look forward.
Our next question is from the line of Scott Group of Wolfe Trahan.
So another one on coal.
When I look at the 13.5% decline in 2012 how much of that do you think is structural of plants closing or losing business? And then if at some point we get to gas prices back above $4 or $4.50 6 months 1 year 2 years from now whenever how much of this 13% decline in coal do you think comes back? Eric? Yes Scott we attempted to say back in Dallas we attempted to separate the market drivers from the plant closures.
Today there is surplus plant capacity versus the demand.
So plant closures aren't necessarily going to impact the volume of tons.
It's really the demand for electricity generated by coal.
So if you look at it on that metric coal historically has had about a 50% market share; was probably in the high 40s 18 months ago; for 2012 it's probably call it 37% 39% market share.
Coal electrical generation we think that's about where it's going to be at a $3.50 $4 natural gas price.
As natural gas prices go up that percent of market share will grow and the potential for coal volumes will grow.
Additionally if you look at the mix of where the coal is being produced certainly Southern Powder River Basin coal is a cheaper coal to produce than Central Appalachian coal.
So we think you will continue to see a migration of market share from Central Appalachian coal to Powder River Basin coal for the amount of coal that's moving.
So it sounds like you think that a lot of what you lost in '12 you can make up at some point not in '13 but at some point in the future if gas prices get back to more normalized levels.
As we were saying if gas prices stay at $3.50 $4 or above we think that the coal market share and therefore our potential to participate in that coal market share vis-a-vis natural gas will be positive going forward.
That and weather and the economy or more electricity demand all those are factors that would be a positive for us.
Okay.
And then one on the Intermodal side so better domestic volume growth than we've seen in a little while and then the yields growth slowed a little bit to what we've seen.
Wondering if there's any changes in the strategy when it comes to domestic Intermodal to focus a little bit more on growth and less on pricing or am I not reading that right? Yes I don't think you're reading it right.
If you think about our domestic Intermodal strategy our strategy has been consistent and firm and we're going forward with the same strategy in the future that we've had in the past.
Domestic Intermodal has huge opportunities in terms of conversion over-the-road conversion and each year for the last 3 years we've had excessively high domestic Intermodal volumes driven by over-the-road conversions.
We still think that there's a large market out there.
We estimate there's probably $7 million to $10 million of over-the-road truckloads that can be penetrated by the Intermodal market.
And so we --- our strategy is to go after those over-the-road truckloads.
We're going to continue to go after that.
We're going to continue to do it as pricing through the market and strong reinvestability in that business.
7 million to 10 million units.
Yes 7 million to 10 million units yes.
Our next question is from the line of Cherilyn Radbourne with TD Securities.
I wanted to ask a question first just about the growth that you've experienced in your southern region.
You've mentioned a number of times the volumes in that region are at pre-recession levels.
I just wondered if you could give us some context on where volumes are relative to prior peak levels in that region.
Lance? Yes sure.
So our pre-recession levels were relatively speaking historic peaks.
So the South right now is at historic peaks and we're seeing a lot of that volume show up in carload traffic in terminals.
Is that a function of the growth in crude-by-rail primarily or are you seeing a lot of the other traffic routes also back at prior peak levels? It's part a function of crude-by-rail.
It's also part a function of Texas booming from the standpoint of oil production the shale plays and all of the related activity with that.
It's also reflective of the auto strength to and from Mexico.
Okay.
If I could sneak one last one in I was sort of intrigued by your comment that you expect a stronger international peak in 2013.
And I was just curious whether that is a general comment on the expectation of a stronger economy or whether in fact you're becoming more optimistic that the housing upturn will translate into a ripple effect into things like furniture and that sort of thing.
Yes I would say it's both.
We certainly -- there's a lot of economic uncertainty.
And as Rob said and others have said there's a lot of things that are happening in Washington that could take us in a lot of different directions.
But we're certainly hopeful there will be a stronger economy in the second half of the year.
And of course as housing strengthens as the global insight projections are suggesting that it will continue to strengthen the things that you build housings with so whether it's furniture and other internal items will ride our Intermodal outlook for the second half of the year.
Our next question is coming from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a question on the legacy coal volumes from 2012 that maybe didn't move when you look at the scenario maybe $3.50 to $4 natural gas is there amount of that legacy business on the coal side that you would expect to move in 2013 that maybe you would see that coming through in either core pricing or I guess maybe incremental margins? Just want to kind of think about that a little bit in this natural gas kind of environment.
Let me just make a comment and then Eric may want to elaborate and I'll come at it from the pricing standpoint.
It's kind of a difficult question to answer from what's normal but you kind of roughed up the impact we had on pricing.
As we increased the terms and conditions in pricing on some of those legacy contracts and did not then get all the full volume compared to what we might have in the past.
That hurt us in our pricing calculation about 0.5 point in the quarter.
So to your point there's clearly a drag there.
I guess the mystery or the question then would be how much of that will come back and I guess it's dependent upon all the other factors that Eric walked through.
Eric if you want to add? Yes and the only thing I would add to what Rob would say is as the coal business comes back for that -- for those repriced legacy contracts we will not consider that price going forward.
But to your point Chris it will be in our margins going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you think about maybe what the breakpoint on -- can you give us any help I guess on maybe what the breakpoint on natural gas is for a portion of that business? I mean is this something in the neighborhood of $3.50 or maybe is it a little bit lower? I guess I just want to get some rough kind of guidelines maybe to use there.
We -- our best assessment is the market kind of currently is at $3.50 $4.
And as the price of natural gas goes higher coal becomes much more competitive.
As it goes lower than that natural gas becomes much more competitive.
Chris I would just add that we're certainly in unchartered territory here just that we were on the downside that at what point exactly will utilities switch back and what gas price and one of the factors to consider which we don't have visibility on is how long has the utility contracted for the gas.
That's a variable also that -- we'll see how that plays out.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jason Seidl of Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'll bring up an old question but ask it in a different way since I've covered you guys for an awful long time.
I do remember when you battled with your western partner for a small percentage of market share.
It doesn't seem like this is the case it seems like this is normal back and forth in terms of contracts that might move.
Am I right in my interpretation? Jason you're absolutely right.
I mean one of the lessons learned that you know well and we've communicated and we're still driven by is we're not in this for market share.
And I think where we walked our talk as much as anything is we turned in this record financial results without the benefit of positive volume for the year.
If you go back to when we started this whole turnaround effort if you will and the returns and focus on the right fundamentals of the business we were running higher levels of volume in the high 80s operating ratio.
So we learned that lesson and we understand that it's not a market share game.
We're certainly aware of what's happening in the market but we're focused on competing providing good service pricing it right and generating returns.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
My next question is going to actually look out a little bit further than actually being able to be focusing on but as I look at your Auto business I looked at a lot of growth in the plants in Mexico.
Even if they don't happen to go on firm [ph] as much as they go [ph] on cashew cashew [ph] does distribute them to other railroads including yourself.
Talk a little bit about some of the new plants online and how might that impact UNP in 2014? You're right Jason there's an immense amount of auto construction new capacity coming on in Mexico.
Vast majority of that is coming on for export to the U.S.
or actually export to Europe and Asia.
And some of the manufacturers are adding capacity in Mexico and just not enough export back to Europe and Asia but the large portion of that is going to be dedicated to North America particularly the U.S.
We have the best franchise crew from Mexico.
We have the best autos franchise.
We have as we've said publicly about 75% market share in the autos market.
A large portion of our autos business is to and from Mexico.
We work with both the KCSM and the FXE equally.
And so our perspective is no matter where the auto plants are located in Mexico whether they're still served by the KCS served by the FXE or dual-served by both of them we want to work effectively with the partners and provide an effective service and take it to destinations in the U.S.
And we have the best franchise and we're going to continue to build on that franchise.
Our next question is from the line of Walter Spracklin of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to focus a little bit.
I understand your core pricing's intact at that inflation plus.
But looking a little bit at the mix effect from some of the length of haul moves I noted your Coal volumes and Ag volumes most are hardest hit here this quarter.
But in one the average revenue per car was up 12% in Coal and flat in Ag.
I was wondering if you might be able to Eric perhaps give us some color as to the difference in length of haul there and what implication that might have on mix effect going into 2013 on those 2 -- those areas.
Eric you want to? Yes our coal mix of length of haul really did not essentially change in 2012.
The ARC affect as we've been talking about are focused on legacy pricing and repricing on legacy contracts.
If you look at our Ag side we did have a length of haul with the drought and the very small corn crops.
Our length of haul in taking corn to destinations was significantly shortened.
Our California feeders used a lot of local feed as opposed to long-haul corn which is relatively high priced.
So our length of haul was impacted and our Ag business significantly primarily due to the corn drought factor.
Our next question is from the line of Matt Troy of Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> A longer-term question on coal.
If I think about some of the sourcing differentials between the eastern franchises and the western franchises obviously PRB coal is in an advantageous position long term.
It's cleaner burning it's more economical it's more competitive with gas at a lower price.
So more than at least the academic you would think it's more fungible or might back-fill lost production that's environmentally viable eastern mines but that's more of an academic observation.
I was just wondering if you could give a realistic assessment in terms of -- do we see sourcing shift over the next 3 5 7 years to what extent might you be a continued share gainer and might that make your coal franchise grow more quickly than the market whatever the market is going to be? Matt let me make a couple of comments and I'll turn it back over to Eric.
I think all the academic -- the positives as you repeated we would agree with all those.
The other thing that if you recall that we gave some guidance on October was our export opportunity albeit relatively small compared to the eastern routes but still a nice growth opportunity for us.
Eric if you want to...
Yes I would just add to what Rob said and kind of repeat what we've said before if you look at the coal overall market share natural gas prices being in the range that they're in the market share will probably remain high 30s perhaps low 40s vis--vis natural gas.
We do continue to see a shift from Central Appalachian coal which probably needs to be at $5.50 natural gas prices versus the Powder River Basin coal -- sort of $5 $5.50 versus Powder River Basin coal at $3.50 $4.
So we will do expect to see a natural shift in the share from Central App to Western coal.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Ceraso Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on a comment earlier about your returns and I'm just wondering what your view is.
Do you think that given that you're generating 14% returns on capital do you see an increased risk that you'll face more rate cases? Chris that's something that we'll continue to communicate our message as broadly as we can in terms of -- we have to earn adequate returns.
We have to grow our returns to be able to make the kinds of capital investments that we are making and that we hope to make going forward as long as the returns are there.
I think what it does introduce is more discussion on which I know you're well aware of and others as well the whole replacement costs way of looking at your returns.
I mean if you factor that in rather than a 14% hard numbers would look more like call it a 7-ish.
So that's a message that we'll continue to communicate and continue to work on but we have to earn adequate returns in order to make these kinds of capital investments.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
And then just a follow-up on the revenue per car in the Chemical division.
Can you just explain why that was flat in the light of such big growth in crude? I would have thought that that would have had a positive effect on your revenue per car.
So maybe explain where the offsets are and if that's something that going forward you think the growth in crude will help improve revenue per car.
Eric? If you look at our Chemicals business overall and kind of look at it historically our revenue per car in our Chemicals business has been some of the best over all of our businesses.
As we talked in previous earnings releases our crude oil business the majority if not all of that is underlying business [indiscernible] moving from our interchanges with our CP [ph] partners and BN Santa Fe where we interchange also substantial business with them in terms of the crude oil market.
If the crude oil business -- because our Chemicals business has such a good revenue per car the crude oil business is not substantially different than what our -- the remainder of our base Chemicals business is.
And so we don't necessarily see a big driver of that in the future.
Chris I would just add to that that arguably the right way to look at it the benefit that we're talking about that we're in fact achieving here is not spelled out in the ARC analysis but it's more in our returns.
And I would say that the new business growth that we're seeing while it's not changing significantly the chemical line arc it is a very positive contributor to our overall margin expansion that we're experiencing.
Our next question is from the line of John Larkin of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the issue of train size I know it's difficult with all the growth being focused on the southern part of the network to really get a lot of traction there.
But as you put more capital to work in the South how do you think you're going to be able to leverage train size over the next say 2 to 5  years as presumably traffic continues to build down in that part of the country.
Sure.
Lance? Yes sure.
So across the system we have opportunity on train size.
We continue to demonstrate that quarter-to-quarter and year-over-year.
When you look at the South everywhere that we see significant volume growth and have seen significant volume growth we've got capital being invested that helps us continue to grow size.
So if you look at the route between El Paso Dallas Shrieveport we call that the Texas Pacific route or TP route we've had some substantial investment going there for siding extensions in new sidings.
That helps us grow train size.
We're doing the same kind of investments on the north/south route that supports crude oil as well as Ag to the Gulf.
Once that kicks back up as well as the chemical industry franchise.
And then we've been making incremental investments around the state of Texas end points north that help us on our Intermodal and Autos business to and from Mexico.
So virtually everything that's shipping to and from Texas has an opportunity for train size in the next [indiscernible].
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Very good answer.
And then maybe a longer-term question on International Intermodal.
Haven't really talked too much about the new Panama Canal locks that are opening up I think in early 2015.
Has your view changed at all in terms of how much if any of the transpacific traffic might shift to the all-water route to access some of the ports on the East Coast that presumably by then will be able to handle the larger ships what might your response be? Is there a way to preserve some of that traffic over the West Coast ports? Eric? Yes John our view hasn't changed from what we've said before.
Today there's about 30% of the business that is all-water route to the Panama Canal.
And the rough dividing line is roughly the Appalachians to go east of the Appalachian typically go all-water.
West of the Appalachian you [ph] can have a land bridge a rail product.
This is kind of the rough rule of thumb.
We think that might change by 1% or 2% so you might go from 30% to 31% 32%.
But as we've pointed out before the Panama Canal also has to get a return for the significant amount of investments that they're making.
The other thing that we pointed out publicly before is that if you look at the supertankers the Panama tankers they really have a route to the East Coast now particularly as the production goes further and further into Southeast Asia.
And so to the extent that the business that makes sense to go into those big tankers and go to the East Coast they can do that now not going through the Panama Canal but going the opposite direction.
And we do see some of those flows going in now which is why we're not sure we're going to see much beyond 1% or 2% change as you go forward.
And last point I would make is we still think that international trade and economic growth is going to grow the pie.
So we still see upside volume growth on the long term as the pie grows.
Our next question is from the line of Ben Hartford with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Eric I think this question is for you.
I was wondering where you ended the EMP and UMAX fleet count at the end of the year and what net growth expectation there are for 2013.
Yes we don't typically give our explicit kind of container fleet count publicly.
We're excited about our MCP programs and we do have a large container ownership.
We with our partners have the strongest container ownership position in the industry and so we think that that's a competitive advantage for us long term.
And the way we're using that with our MCP program we think is the right strategic direction we've been pleased with the success and we're going to build on it.
Research Division</strong> I guess directionally could you give us some sense whether you would expect total fleet count to grow in line faster or slower than what Domestic Intermodal growth would be in 2013.
Yes that's a good question.
As you know the last couple of years the total industry fleet count grew significantly and substantially.
We added to our fleet IMCs added to their fleet and so there were large fleet additions over the last several years.
I do not expect to see significant if any fleet additions from an industry perspective.
This year certainly each company will make their own decision but I think if you look at it the industry probably has enough capacity to absorb at least growth in the next year or 2 but we'll see what happens from a capacity standpoint.
Our next question is from the line of Keith Schoonmaker of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> In the current trucking capacity and fuel price environment can you comment on your ability to close some of the historical discount between Intermodal and trucking price [ph].
That's a good question.
If you look at tracking capacity it's narrowing.
If you look at the driver shortages they are increasing shortages.
There's some evidence that as the construction industry is coming back it's more difficult for the trucking industry to get qualified drivers.
And mid-year the new hours-of-service law will come in place which will also be an impact on the available drivers.
So we think that the trends remain strong that Intermodal will increase its value proposition vis--vis over-the-road truck as we go throughout this year and future years.
And Eric don't forget our service products' port side as well.
Absolutely.
An outstanding service product.
It's very competitive with truck right now.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up for Eric.
Eric considering shifts in manufacturing to North America from other historically lower-cost regions Union Pacific is perhaps uniquely positioned to capitalize on either location where products are made.
Are you sort of ambivalent as to whether products are made in Mexico versus Asia or is there an advantage to Mexico and perhaps you can haul raw materials and finished goods as well or lower average rate per Intermodal car perhaps a disadvantage to Asian imports? Maybe you could just give some color on if you have preference given those 2 options.
Yes that's a great question.
I'm not sure I would phrase it as a preference.
What I would say is that there is a very strong trend with Mexico having a very quality-effective low-cost workforce and not having the supply chain issues and potential other issues that you may see in some of the Asian countries.
You are seeing the trends and you're also seeing a trend of near-sourcing actually even from Europe due to lower energy prices in the U.S.
driven by the shale plays.
I think over the next several years we're going to see -- and we're actually starting to see it now in terms of inquiries from companies for rail sidings so to speak so the actual opportunity is still several years in the future.
But we're seeing a growing trend in near-sourcing to North America both in Mexico and the U.S.
that we think will be upside for the rail industry.
I would just add that because of the strength of our network we're in the position to leverage both opportunities because of our strength of both the ports and our unique strengths in and out of Mexico being the only railroad that serve [indiscernible] the border crossing point.
And the other thing is that as we have these manufacturing opportunities come they typically bring good jobs which helps unemployment which again helps -- as the driver for the economy which helps our transportation outlook.
Our next question is from the line of Don Broughton of Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Looking at this kind of just to 100 000-foot kind of a question here I'm looking at all of your operating metrics and they just -- every one of them continues to get better and better and better.
Obviously you've more than adequately invested in the infrastructure.
So when I look at capital investment and I look at your outlook for 2013 and you need the economy to participate that makes sense to what level is there flexibility? I understand PTC that's going to be what it is on mandate.
And you got infrastructure replacement budgeted at $1.675 billion.
How much of the other is flexible in your mind if you didn't get the economy you're looking for and could be trained towards other items such as share repurchase? Don let me say a couple comments and I'll refer to Lance to elaborate.
First of all remember that every capital dollar we spend we are very focused on hitting the return base.
So we go through the calculations based on what we think the projection of the economy is going to be in volumes and service safety and returns from that business.
And that's not going to change.
So if there was ever a point where we didn't feel confident in making those investments rest assured we would back off making those capital investments.
To the point I know you know this that in our capital spend about $2 billion each year is for replacements so a few points above and beyond that we've got other spending decisions.
Lance you want to elaborate? Yes you got that just right Rob.
And like in every year Don we know going into the year what our on-ramps and off-ramps are depending on what the economy does.
So as we stand right now we've got a good robust plan that will be able to match capital spend with what is happening in the economy or what our needs are.
LLC Research Division</strong> So it's fair to say that your CapEx outlook is much more dynamic than most people assume it to be or understand it to be.
Is that a fair statement? I think that's a pretty fair statement absent the -- what Rob reminded you of and that is over 1/2 is keep the store open in capital spending.
And of course we have Positive Train Control in our current numbers and we have that still in front of us.
But Lance is right we will -- the rest is flexible if you will and that's based on returns.
Our next question is from the line of Jeff Kauffman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> It's been a long call most of my questions have been answered.
Just a quick one here.
When Coal does normalize -- I'm referring to the question you had about what could come back once Coal does normalize.
When we add that in with the new crude carriage the frac sand the piping that's going up do you think the net effect of this if I look at it on a total energy universe basis will be long-term positive growth or will the crude be able to offset the structural coal losses? Eric? So when you talk about coal again I don't think we are projecting I don't think the market is projecting that coal is going to return to the levels that it needs to be at.
I think what we're saying is that given a natural gas range again $3.50 to $4 coal will probably stay in that round number 40% share in the market.
So I'm not sure we are projecting that to be significantly [indiscernible] return back to its historical levels unless we have an assumption about natural gas prices being significantly higher.
And to add to that to your point the shale opportunities and all the related moves we're very optimistic that our network is really well positioned to continue to serve those growing markets.
So when you add it all up I mean the energy story for us we think is a very positive story.
Our next question is from the line of Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> With regard to labor costs I was just taking a look at the annualized average rate for the fourth quarter which was down about 4% year-on-year and then compared to the full 2012 it's down about 3%.
And I'm just wondering as we look forward is the fourth quarter a good guide for the average rate for 2013? No it's not.
I would expect that that's going to increase.
Remember the tax refund I mentioned in my comments certainly was a factor in that.
There was also a greater percentage if you will of growth in our capital spending program as it relates to labor.
So I would expect that as we move into the first quarter to be more normalized if you will at a call it 3% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just a follow-up on that would the 2012 -- with that incremental increase that you mentioned did then -- if we just make minor adjustments around that would the 2012 annualized number then be sort of this figure we should be looking at based on 100 000 or 200 000 [ph] roughly give or take.
Yes I mean sort of a 3% growth assumption in there that's probably not an unreasonable with inflation.
Our next question is from the line of Anthony Gallo of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> If you pull together all of your unconventional energy business what's the -- roughly the mix right now between the inbound frac sand pipe et cetera versus the outbound take away? And what does that mix look like 2013 2014 how might that change? Eric I'm not sure we have that.
So I just want to make sure the question that you're asking.
You're asking how much of our business is inbound versus outbound recognizing it is in different regions and different origins and destinations? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
So our frac sand and pipe business predominantly is going from kind of Minnesota Wisconsin down to South Texas and West Texas so it's going inbound that way.
And our crude oil business is coming from the Bakken going to the South.
It's probably a 55-45 60-40 kind of a split.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And does that change materially as you get into 2013 2014? I guess just the take away [indiscernible].
Yes the crude opportunity as I said in our earlier comments is one of our strongest growth opportunities.
That will grow faster than the inbound opportunity in 2013.
Ladies and gentlemen we've reached the end of our question-and-answer session.
Time for 1 final question.
That question is from the line of David Vernon with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick follow-ups just to clarify on guidance you said your -- the potential for quite positive volume growth overall if you could just kind of clarify that a little bit.
And then specifically with Ag kind of what you're expecting for the full year kind of first half back half that would be great.
Yes just to remind everyone what we said on the volume guidance is we said assuming the economy cooperates and let's define that as an industrial production number of around 2% we would expect when you add it all up that our overall volumes in the face of slight decline in coal is what we call that also we expect our volumes to be on the positive side of the ledger overcoming if you will that slight falloff in Coal.
Ag we said we got challenges in the first half of the year.
We expect that things will hopefully improve in the back half of the year but we didn't give any further clarity beyond that.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Rob Knight for closing comments.
Okay great.
Again we're very proud of what we've accomplished here and look forward to continuing to meet the challenges in 2013.
And thanks for joining us on the call and we look forward to speaking with you again in April.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
Welcome to the Union Pacific First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Jack Koraleski CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you Mr.
Koraleski you may begin.
Good morning everybody and welcome to Union Pacific's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With me today here in Omaha are Rob Knight our CFO; Eric Butler Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; and Lance Fritz Executive Vice President of Operations.
This morning we're pleased to announce that Union Pacific achieved record first quarter financial results leveraging the strengths of our diverse franchise despite significantly weaker coal and grain markets.
Earnings of $2.03 per share increased 13% compared to 2012.
We efficiently managed our operations in the face of dynamic volume shifts across our network as evidenced by our record first quarter operating ratio and customer satisfaction results.
Putting it all together it translates into greater financial returns for our shareholders.
And with that I'll turn it over to Eric.
Thanks Jack and good morning.
Let's start off with a look at customer satisfaction which came in at 94 for the quarter tying an all-time quarterly record.
It is up 1 point from the first quarter last year setting a new first quarter record and along the way March tied our best ever month at 95.
We appreciate customer recognition of the strength of our value proposition and continue to work to make it even stronger.
As expected some key markets were a challenge in the first quarter and as a result overall volume was down 2%.
While Chemicals Intermodal and Automotive grew and Industrial Products was flat it wasn't enough to offset the challenging market conditions that drove steep declines in Coal and Ag products whilst the coal demand have continued to have the largest impact on overall growth.
Setting the decline in the coal loadings aside the other 5 groups grew 2.5% despite the drought related to shortfall in Ag.
Note that the volume comparisons were subject to last year's leap year which included an extra day of carloadings.
Core price improved 4% which combined with the modest benefit from positive mix and increased fuel surcharge revenue produced nearly a 6% improvement in average revenue per car.
With the price-driven average revenue per car gains outpacing the volumes decline freight revenue grew to 3% to $5 billion.
Let's take a closer look at each of these groups starting with the 2 that saw declines.
Coal volumes were down 19% as high coal stockpiles created by last year's low natural gas prices continued to impact demand.
Core pricing gains and positive mix led to a 16% improvement in average revenue per car holding the revenue decline to 6%.
High stockpiles and inventory reduction initiatives by specific utility drove the decline in the Southern Powder River Basin shipments with tonnage down 19%.
Although coal stockpiles started to decline from last year's peak they remain above normal levels.
Also contributing to the decline was a previously mentioned loss of a legacy customer contract at the beginning of the year which more than offset business gains.
Colorado/Utah coal shipments also declined soft domestic demand mine production problems and the weak international market for Western U.S.
coal limited shipments with tonnage down 15%.
Before we move on to Ag please note that this slide shows the ease in comp we had year-over-year in the second quarter.
Ag Products revenue declined 9% with volume down 9% and a 1% improvement in average revenue per car.
Last summer's drought continued to impact grain carloadings with first quarter down 19% from last year.
Domestic feed grain shipments declined as tight U.S.
corn supplies especially in UP served territories led to reductions in livestock feedings and increased reliance on local feed crop.
Export feed grain shipments also declined with improved world production and lower U.S.
supplies.
Grain product shipments were down 4% as reduced demand for gasoline has increased use of lending credits from previous years to meet the mandate to over 10% decline in ethanol shipment.
A reduced supply and greater emphasis on meeting local demand impacted DDG volumes which fell 26%.
Food and refrigerated shipments also declined 3% driven by lower sugar imports from Mexico and new restrictions in Russia and China that imported limit -- that limited import of U.S.
meat and poultry.
Automotive volume grew 2% which combined with an 11% increase in average revenue per car drove a 13% increase in revenue.
The growth rate of the Automotive industry continued to outpace that of the overall economy during the first quarter.
Drivers that helped the momentum in the Automotive market last year continued into the first quarter largely pent-up demand and an improving overall economy.
New fuel-efficient models equipped with more features and technology appeared to be compelling consumers to replace vehicles.
In addition a rebound in the housing and construction market have increased demand for light trucks.
While sales continued to grow our finished vehicles shipments lag as OEMs had unscheduled downtime to deal with product refreshes and dealers sold off existing inventories to support sales.
Parts volumes increased 5% while pricing gains and the previously announced Pacer network logistics management arrangement increased average revenue per car.
Chemicals revenue increased 14% reflecting a 12% increase in volume and a 1% improvement in average revenue per car.
Crude oil volume increased 11% from the previous quarter more than doubled when compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Growth was driven by increased shipments from Bakken Western Oklahoma and West Texas shale plays UP served terminals primarily in St.
James Louisiana and the Texas Gulf Coast.
Plastics volume was up 3% driven by the increased domestic demand and new business.
Growth in the export market was the primary driver of the 4% growth in soda ash.
Strong demand from Eastern Origins Louisiana as well as new business at the Gulf Coast led to growth in LP Gas with shipments up 13%.
Industrial Products revenue increased 6% even as volume remains flat driven by a 7% improvement in average revenue per car.
Nonmetallic materials volume was up 11% as continued growth in shale-related drilling increased fracs and shipments.
Growth in housing starts and residential improvements increased the demand for lumber with shipments up 18%.
Hazardous waste shipments declined 63% as costs on government spending resulted in production curtailments during the first 2 months of the year impacting uranium tailing shipments.
The slow start for pipeline projects lower steel production and softer demand for export scrap was reflected in the 10% decline in steel and scrap.
Continued mining production issues continued to hamper our expert iron ore shipments leading to a 5% decline in metallic minerals.
Intermodal revenue grew 9% as a 4% improvement in average revenue per car -- per unit combined with the 4% increase in volume.
Although the pace of recovery is slow continued strengthening of the economy drove International Intermodal up 8%.
While we continued to secure highway conversions with multi-carrier and premium LTL customers overall domestic Intermodal shipments were flat as these gains were offset by declines in select markets.
A closer look at the remainder of 2013.
Most economic projections continued to forecast slow economic growth.
Although we face continued challenges in some markets our diverse franchise still provides opportunity to grow in others.
Despite softness in coal demand and the previously announced loss of a customer contract at the beginning of the year we expect coal volumes in the second quarter to see slight gains against an ease in comp last year.
This assume the continuation of recent trends in natural gas prices and further coal stockpile reductions.
For the full year we still expect coal volumes to be down slightly.
We'll continue to feel the impact of the drought on last year's grain crop through the first half of this year with second quarter Ag product volume expected to be down in the low double digits.
Expectation for a more normal crop harvest in 2013 should provide opportunity later in the year.
First quarter Auto sales were at a seasonably adjusted annual rate of $15.2 million the highest quarterly level in 5 years.
The steady pace is expected to continue throughout the year which combined with declining dealer inventories should be good news for our Automotive business.
Crude oil should continue to drive Chemicals growth but the pace will ease against the ramp up of volumes realized throughout 2012.
Most other chemical markets are expected to remain solid.
Industrial Products should also continue to benefit from shale-related growth with increased drilling activity and a ramp up in pipeline projects after a slow start to the year.
The housing recovery continues to gain momentum which is expected to drive demand for lumber.
Iron ore moves are expected to decline due to softer export demand and mining production issues.
Successful conversion of highway business is expected to drive Domestic Intermodal growth while modest economic growth and the strengthening housing markets should ease International Intermodal ahead of last year.
For the full year our strong value proposition and diverse franchise will again support business development opportunities across our broad portfolio of business.
Assuming the economy cooperates we will see a more normal summer weather patterns we expect a slight volume increase combined with price gains to drive profitable revenue growth.
With that I'll turn it over to Lance.
Thank you Eric.
And good morning.
Let's start with our safety results.
Our first quarter reportable personal injury rate increased from first quarter 2012.
The reportable incident rate was abnormally high in February but moderated substantially in March and continued to show improvement year-over-year at the start of this quarter.
Severe injuries declined sharply in the first quarter reflecting our work to reduce the risk of critical incidents and the growth and maturation of our Total Safety Culture.
Rail equipment incidents or derailments improved to an all-time quarterly record.
This improvement is largely the result of reduction in track cost derailments which is a direct reflection of the investments we've made to harden our infrastructure.
We also reaped the benefits from technological advancements and equipment defect detection.
Moving to public safety.
Our grade crossing incident rate increased about 14% from the first quarter 2012.
Our grade crossing incident exposure is increasing due to growing rail and highway traffic in the South which has a higher grade crossing density than our overall network.
Driver behavior was a meaningful contributor with an increase from vehicle striking our trains or not properly stopping at crossings.
As I've said in January we continued to focus on identifying and improving or closing high-risk crossings and reinforcing public awareness and safe driving practices.
Now let's take a quick look at the traffic pattern shifts we continued to experience on the network.
volumes on the southern region of our network continued to grow.
In the South we are near all-time peak carload volume last seen in 2006 and we are moving it more efficiently with train speed up about 14% compared to 2006.
While service was good by historical standards in the South we experienced modest operational challenges during the first quarter which were reflected in our monthly velocity and terminal dwell numbers.
We responded aggressively by leveraging our fluid routes and terminals and realigning critical resources.
As a result we completed an aggressive first quarter capital renewal program in the South and I am pleased to report fluidity has improved substantially over the last few weeks.
We are also making continued capacity investments to support volume growth across our diverse portfolio of businesses in the South.
We expect 2013 capacity spending to top 2012 which includes critical double track additions siding extensions and terminal capacity.
These projects along with continued process efficiencies should support further improvement in network fluidity and service performance.
The first quarter service results were solid and our network is well-positioned to handle future volume growth.
Velocity was basically flat compared to the first quarter of 2012 with the modest slippage I mentioned in the South offset by a strong results in other parts of the network.
We continued to provide outstanding local service to our customers with the first quarter best 95% industry Spot &amp; Pull which measures the on-time delivery of pulling of a car to or from a customer.
Our Service Delivery Index the measure of how well we are meeting overall customer commitments declined modestly compared to the first quarter of 2012.
The decline reflects tighter service commitments to our customers with service challenges discussed earlier and the mix shift from coal to manifest.
Network fundamentals remained solid.
We are increasing capacity in the southern region and we have available capacity in many other parts of the network as well as roughly 450 employees per load and about 800 locomotives in storage.
Moving on to network productivity.
Slow order miles declined 25% to a best-ever quarter -- first quarter level.
Our network is in excellent shape reflecting the investments in replacement capital that has hardened our infrastructure and reduced service failures.
And we continued to leverage existing resources as our Intermodal and Manifest business volumes grow.
During the first quarter we turned the 4% growth in Intermodal volume into an average train size increase of 2%.
Intermodal Manifest Coal and Grain Train Size lengths offset new first quarter records.
Continued deployment of DPU locomotives our capital investment strategy and process improvements should continue to drive efficiency gains going forward.
Car utilization was 1% unfavorable versus the first quarter of 2012 due to mix.
Mix being equal our car utilization rate would have been unchanged from last year's first quarter.
The UP Way is playing a vital role in these results.
Employee engagement is critical to the success of our average strategy and as the team's doing the work to take ownership of improving the process and outcomes.
We remain optimistic on our full year operating outlook for 2013 and our ability to achieve continued network improvements on various fronts.
Our first quarter results were solid and there is room for improvement.
I am encouraged by what I am seeing at the start of the second quarter and for the full year my expectation is that we will operate at record safety levels while improving service and bringing more productivity to the bottom line.
We are committed to operate a safer railroad for the benefit of all of our stakeholders our employees customers the public and our shareholders.
We will remain agile managing network resources in response to dynamic market shifts while handling growth with efficient and reliable service.
Our continuous improvement efforts particularly the UP Way will generate further efficiency improvements that add value for our customers.
And we will continue to make smart capital investments that generate attractive returns by increasing capacity and high-volume quarters while also supporting our safety service and productivity initiatives.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
Before I get started I'd like to make everyone aware that the 2012 Fact Book will be available tomorrow morning on the Union Pacific website under the Investors tab.
So with that let's start by summarizing our first quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 3% to a first quarter record of nearly $5.3 billion driven mainly by solid core pricing gains.
Operating expense totaled $3.7 billion increasing 2%.
Operating income grew 8% to $1.6 billion also setting a best-ever first quarter mark.
Below the line other income totaled $40 million up $24 million compared to 2012.
A onetime land lease contract settlement added roughly $0.02 in earnings per share compared to last year which we do not expect to repeat going forward.
For the full year we're projecting other income to be in the $100 million to $120 million range barring any other unusual adjustments.
Interest expense of $128 million was down $7 million driven by lower average interest rate of 5.6% compared to 6.1% last year.
Income tax expense increased to $588 million driven by higher pretax earnings.
Net income grew 11% versus 2012 while the outstanding share balance declined 2% as a result of our share repurchase activity.
These results combined to produce a first quarter earnings record of $2.03 per share up 13% versus 2012.
Turning now to our top line.
Freight revenue grew 3% to nearly $5 billion.
Volume was down a little over 2 points partially offset by more than a 0.5 point of positive mix.
Fuel surcharge recovery added roughly 0.5 point in freight revenue compared to 2012.
We also achieved solid core pricing gains of 4% which was a key contributor to our record first quarter financial performance.
Lower coal volumes again hindered further pricing gains.
Moving on to the expense side.
Slide 22 provides the summary of our compensation and benefits expense which was about flat compared to 2012.
Lower volume costs and productivity gains mostly offset inflationary pressures of about 2.5%.
And as Lance just discussed shifts in traffic mix and significant capital replacement work in the South had an impact on operations and associated costs during the quarter.
Workforce levels increased 2% in the quarter mostly driven by a shift in traffic mix to more Manifest business which require additional resources.
Increased capital and Positive Train Control activity also contributed to the growth.
Turning to the next slide.
Fuel expense totaled $900 million decreasing $26 million versus 2012.
A 5% decline in gross ton-miles drove the reduction in costs.
Although our average fuel price was flat year-over-year our consumption rate increased 3% mainly driven by lower coal volumes.
Moving on to the other expense categories.
Purchased services and materials expense increased 6% to $557 million due to higher locomotive and freight car contract repair expenses.
In addition under the new Pacer agreement we're seeing higher costs in the form of logistics management fees and container costs not incurred under the previous agreement structure.
These costs both the purchased services and equipment rent expense line and are recouped in our Automotive freight revenue line.
Depreciation expense increased 2% to $434 million.
The impact that increased capital spending in recent years was partially offset by a new equipment rate study that we discussed with you earlier this year.
Looking at the full year 2013 we expect depreciation expense to be up in the 2% to 3% range versus 2012.
Slide 25 summarizes the remaining 2 expense categories.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $313 million up 6% compared to 2012.
Increased container expenses and growth in Automotive and Intermodal shipments resulted in higher freight car rental expense.
Lower freight car and locomotive lease expense partially offset these increases.
Other expenses came in at $237 million up $21 million versus last year.
Higher property tax expense and increased equipment and freight damage costs were the primary drivers.
Lower personal injury expense partially offset these increases.
For the remainder of 2013 we expect the other expense line to moderate slightly more in the neighborhood of $225 million a quarter barring any unusual items.
Turning now to our operating ratio performance.
For the first time in our history we achieved sub70 first quarter operating ratio of 69.1% improving 1.4 points compared to last year.
Our performance highlights the positive impact of solid core pricing gains and network efficiency and is also noteworthy given the fact that we had 2% decline in volume levels this quarter.
Looking ahead we remain committed to achieving a full year sub-65 operating ratio by 2017.
Union Pacific's record first quarter earnings drove strong cash from operations of more than $1.5 billion.
Free cash flow of $401 million reflects the 12% increase in cash dividend payments versus 2012.
Our balance sheet remains strong supporting our investment-grade credit rating.
At quarter end our adjusted debt-to-cap ratio was 40.2% which includes our March debt issuance of $650 million.
Opportunistic share repurchases continued to play an import rant role in our balanced approach to cash allocations.
In the first quarter we bought back nearly 2.9 million shares totaling $394 million.
Since 2007 we purchased over 94 million shares at an average price of around $80 per share.
Looking ahead we have about 12.2 million shares remaining under our current authorization which expires March 31 2014.
So that's a recap of our first quarter results.
Looking at the second quarter.
Although our full comparison is much easier we'll see ongoing challenges with weak grain volumes.
However assuming continued growth in the other market sectors we would expect our second quarter volumes to be flattish year-over-year.
Aside from volume levels we'll continue to target inflation-plus pricing gains.
We'll also realize the benefits from continued productivity and network efficiency.
For the full year assuming the economy continues along its positive trend with industrial production growth of around 2% we would expect to see volumes on the positive side of the ledger.
We're well-positioned to achieve yet another record financial year with best ever marks in earnings and operating ratio driving even greater shareholder returns this year.
So with that I'll turn it back to Jack.
Thanks Rob.
While there is still much uncertainty in the year ahead our diverse franchise does really support our continued focus on profitable growth opportunities.
We continued to pursue evolving business development prospects supported by our value proposition and the efficiencies that rail transportation provides.
We're also well positioned for upside but we are just as prepared if our environment should take a turn for the worse.
We remain committed to providing safe efficient reliable service for our customers to drive greater customer value and increase shareholder returns in the future.
So with that let's open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Tom Wadewitz of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about one of the popular topics the crude-by-rail here.
How would you view the potential impact of a decline in oil prices and also changes in the WTI brand spread? Or if you look at other spreads that might be helpful for inland crude moves is that a material source of risk in the near term to volumes? Or are your contracts set up in a way that you have commitments and so you don't have much sensitivity to the price and the spread moves? Tom I think certainly it depends on the order of magnitude of the moves that were to take place.
We don't see anything in the horizon at this point in time that gives us any concern.
But Eric why don't you explain on those? Tom there are couple of factors.
We've said previously crude-by-rail provides a great value proposition to the producers in terms of agility in terms of being able to get to destinations that they previously couldn't get to.
So all of that -- those value factors remain.
Certainly if the price of oil goes to levels pick a number below 70s mid-60s that's going to impact the amount of production which as the total production numbers come down the total numbers that will go crude-by-rail will come down.
So that clearly will have an impact if price of oil goes down.
In terms of the spreads we're probably less concerned about the spreads narrowing.
Again as the value proposition we've talked several times in the past publicly with crude-by-rail that again gets you to destinations allows -- the producers flexibility and agility.
So we think that even if the spreads get to some narrow -- some low single-digit numbers there are still a value proposition for crude by rail.
The biggest factor is if crude production goes down then certainly that impacts us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what about the structure of the contracts that you have in place into the St.
James market? Are there some commitments that are multi-year where you would have some minimum volumes into those markets? Or is it set up in a way that if things really changed that there would necessarily be volume commitments? Yes.
We said we don't really talk about specific customer agreements.
What I would say that you can look at is the fact that the destination providers and the origin producers they're investing huge dollar amounts of capital to do crude-by-rail both in terms of freight cars and facilities.
So that should be a comforting indicator in terms of their long-term commitment to crude-by-rail.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Hoexter of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Rob can you just talk about the outlook there that you just ran through? If you look at truck carloads for the second quarter do you still see coal moderating? Is Ag accelerating on the downside? Maybe if you can give a little bit more insight onto some color on what's in that in your targets there.
Yes.
Ken just kind of reiterate what both Eric and I talked about.
Keep in mind as I think you know the coal falloff that we saw year-over-year in the first quarter being down 19%.
Last year you recall we sort of hit the trough on coal so we do have clearly an easier comp on coal as we head into the second quarter.
But as Eric mentioned we do envision that the Ag drought will continue certainly through the second quarter and we estimate that's going to be down in the call it low double digits which is a little bit worse year-over-year if you will compared to what we saw last year.
So when you add it all up the guidance that we're giving is -- assuming all the other markets remain about constant with what we saw in the first quarter that feels flattish to us.
But full year again if the economy continues to cooperate which thus far it is all of those things will sort of neutralize if you will when we get to back half of the year.
We think at the end of the day at the end of the year we'll have volumes that overall on a positive side of the ledger.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And If I can do my follow-up on pricing.
Was there any -- on the coal side were there any contract settlements within that -- within the yields? And then also within pricing you mentioned the Pacer agreement a couple of times.
Can you kind of talk about or walk through the level of increase? I know you don't like talking about specific contracts but maybe just magnitude of what we're looking at or continued to go forward on that contract? And then similarly on pricing on Domestic Intermodal side I think you mentioned it was flat.
Can you just kind of run through what you're seeing impact on those -- on that as well? Ken this is Rob.
Let me take the first point and you asked about the settlements in the Coal line.
There's a little bit in there.
We're not calling out precisely what it is.
But it's a little bit of an impact on the ARC and the coal.
And in terms of the other pricing discussions we don't break out by  -- we don't talk about pricing on particular arrangements or agreements.
So Ken I'm not sure what your question was.
Research Division</strong> I guess you mentioned that the Auto pricing was up significantly because of the Pacer agreement so you kind of called it out on there.
I mean can you give us I guess an understanding of what Auto would be like without the agreement? I mean it was a big number in terms of the 10% increase.
Is it half of that in terms of magnitude? Ken this is Rob again.
I mean the impact on the Autos ARC of that new agreement it's a 50-50 [ph] in that number.
So clearly it's deflated [ph] if you will the ARC number.
But that pacer agreement as I think everybody is aware as previously announced is really kind of a neutralizing effect.
I mean it's showing up both on the revenue and expense line but it doesn't change the full year economics to us the bottom line.
But there is a positive impact that's showing up in that ARC number on the Autos line.
And you will see that full year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly just on the Domestic Intermodal as you had mentioned something on [ph] flat there.
I just wanted to understand that as well.
Domestic Intermodal.
Yes.
We are continuing to see strength in our Domestic Intermodal business at the minute [ph].
I think I mentioned our conversion strategy is going well.
We're continuing to price with the market and we're continuing to be pleased with the performance in that business.
The volume was flat in the first quarter Ken.
Is that -- was that your question? Research Division</strong> Oh it's volume okay.
It's not price yes.
It's volume not price.
Ken this is Rob.
If I can just make one clarifying point on the Pacer questions you asked.
I said that the Autos ARC reflected that this new agreement but it's not reflected in our 4% core pricing number that we report.
That's not -- that doesn't factor anything related in that number.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Group of Wolfe Trahan.
So I just wanted to follow-up on a couple of those things from the last question.
With the coal yields being so strong if it's not legacy repricing can you give us a sense of maybe what's driving that strength and if you think it's sustainable? And then Rob you mentioned that you're getting good coal yields even without the volume.
As the volume starts to come back can the coal yields -- or should they get even better from what we found in the first quarter? Scott when you look at the pricing of our coal overall there was some legacy impact from prior contracts that have been settled and there was also -- that's the normal escalations that we have in our new contracts going forward.
There were some incremental fuel surcharge.
There was a little bit of liquidated damages but not very much.
So that's really it.
Scott if I  can just make one comment.
The ARC number that we reported in the first quarter for -- in addition to the comments that Jack just mentioned there is the mix effect in there.
So that -- again if you look at our overall pricing as an enterprise we report a 4% price.
And as I mentioned in my comments it's hindered somewhat by the lack of volume in coal.
But if you're searching [indiscernible] we don't break it out by commodities what the pricing actually was.
But it is appropriate to take into consideration that the ARC number we reported in coal did have some mixed effect in it.
So when you add up all those kind of moving parts of maybe some liquidated damages that don't continue and maybe coal coming back in some parts of the network is this kind of double-digit run rate on ARC still sustainable for the year? It will depend upon the mix.
Again what we're looking at overall in our pricing is to be inflation plus kind of pricing overall and that's how we approach the business overall.
But when you look any individual commodity groups ARC you can get swings either way depending on the mix of traffic that we move that quarter.
That makes sense.
And just last thing on the Domestic Intermodal.
I'm a little confused if you're talking about the highway conversions going well but domestic volumes were flat.
What's offsetting that in the quarter? And just any color you can give us there would be great.
Eric? Yes.
As I mentioned in a couple of select markets there were some competitive select markets that had some volume reductions and...
Hey Scott let me take you back to our past comments which is as we take our prices up there are some business is that's going to fall away from the railroad because it doesn't meet our reinvestable standards.
And so we saw some of that.
So we were taking some prices up we've got some new business in highway conversions and we lost some business that needed our reinvestability threshold.
Our next question is from the line of Brandon Oglenski with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a question on the cost side.
When we look at compensation and benefits it's actually been flat to down for the last 4 quarters or so.
How should we think about headcounts and wage inflation and some of the offsetting efficiencies that you're getting in the network for the rest of the year? Rob? The way we -- the guidance that we've given on the head -- let's me start with the headcount question first.
Overall headcount for the year we would expect to float with volume.
So again our projection is that assuming the economy cooperates that our volume will be on the positive side of ledger.
So the way I would look at it is that we expect volume to be up year-over-year but not necessarily 1:1 because there is certainly productivity savings we will achieve throughout the year.
On the cost side the way I think I would guide you to look at the way I would expect cost to flow through is we think our labor inflation is going to be around 3%.
There were some timing issues that resulted in it being flat you're right this quarter end a previous couple of quarters.
But probably the right way to look at it is expect that that inflation on the wage lines would be around 3% going forward.
Rob one other thing to note and we mentioned it in our commentary headcount will also flux with CapEx and with mix shift to manifest.
Research Division</strong> From that guidance Rob then I mean should we be looking for more normal comp and then inflation of 3% throughout the year I mean depending obviously on the volume outlook then? I think that's the right way to look at it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then quickly on purchase services.
You mentioned that the Pacer agreement did escalate costs there.
Is that the new run rate that we saw in the quarter for the rest of the year as well? There could be lots of factors.
Obviously volume overall will play a part in there.
But that particular item that we saw in the first quarter will repeat throughout the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Greene of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Jack or Rob can I just ask you to comment a little bit on the return of capital approach? When you think about sort of the circumstances that might cause you to be a little bit more aggressive there or maybe change the way you think about leverage because I know you do debt-to-capital.
But I think if you look at it on a debt-to-EBITDA basis or in interest coverage basis you've been pretty conservatively levered.
So maybe you can just comment a little bit on what's circumstance you might be willing to be more aggressive in that regard? Rob? Yes.
Bill I mean as we've said before we haven't changed our approach.
We don't look at just debt-to-cap because we use that as one of the measures that we talk publicly about.
We look at all the measures.
But where it all starts is we're focus on generating the cash to begin with.
We'll continue then to deploy the cash by making investments in capital projects where we're confident the returns there.
We expect [ph] the 30% payout on the dividends so we would expect that as earnings continue to grow we expect the dividends to continue to grow along with it.
And then we will continue to be opportunistic on the share repurchase activities that in fact we've been deploying for the last X number of years.
So in terms of when you add it all up Bill as you've heard me say before we are still comfortable in that 40s -- low 40s debt-to-cap ratio.
That's not how we drive our business but that's the kind of resulting measure that we are still very comfortable with it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Rob you also made a comment in your comments about core price and I just want to make sure I understood it and that is that some of the coal that's repriced didn't move and I think if we think back to '12 that kind of caused the reported core price metric to be a little bit lower in light of otherwise been the case.
Was that a material impact this quarter again? I would have thought we're certain to lap it but maybe you can just give a little clarity there.
Yes Bill compared to sort of normal run rates which is always the elusive part of that calculation we call it about 0.5 point of price that did not materialize had the higher levels of coal volume moved under those repriced contracts.
So we reported 4% core price had it been sort of normal run rates of volumes in the coal world on those repriced contracts it would've looked more like 4.5.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then one last one just on nat gas how soon is it at nat gas prices like this when we see the customers start to react? Is that a lag of like 6 months or 12 months? How do we think about that? Bill actually overall we have seen customers start to make the shift back from natural gas to coal.
The bigger problem right at the moment is there's not much demand for electricity or the demand for electricity is softer.
So even though we've actually seen some customers start shifting back and taking more coal we have not seen a substantial increase in coal shipments yet.
If -- this is Eric.
If you look back at last year this time coal market share of electrical generation was down in the low 30% -- it's probably 32% 33% 34%.
Today it's about 40%.
So clearly coal has regained market share at 4 4.20 natural gas.
As Jack said the demand for overall electrical generation is still down as the economy is still coming back.
And we're in shelf months in terms of weather patterns.
So both of those are impacting the overall electrical demand.
Our next question is from the line of Justin Yagerman of Deutsche Bank.
It's Rob on for Justin.
Eric could you talk a little bit more with regard to your coal outlook? This morning Peabody raised their expectation in terms of the coal burn by about $20 million on both the high and low end for the U.S.
What sort of growth are you guys expecting in terms of consumption across your utilities and would that imply upside to what's baked into your guidance currently? I think -- and Rob in our comments we kind of indicated -- we said flat to slightly increase from the second quarter with the easier comps.
The fundamental issue really is going to come down to the overall demand and then how competitive coal will be against the natural gas.
So you need the economy to come back strong.
You need the large steel mills to start using electrical generation.
You need normal weather patterns in the summer.
And as all of those things happen you'll see the demand for electricity go up.
And again as I said current natural -- current coal market share has grown back to 40%.
It will never get back to the 50% that it historically was but it's better than the low-30s.
So I haven't seen that Peabody outlook.
But my guess is that they're expecting normal weather patterns and continued economic growth in the economy to drive electrical demand.
No that's fair.
Coal's always a tough one to model.
Looking forward I guess Rob circling back on Bill Greene's prior question.
When you're saying with coal getting back to kind of normal type burn levels would flat year-over-year in Q2 imply normal coal levels and we should be thinking about kind of a 4.5% core improvement looking forward? It's always difficult to predict what normal is.
But we are assuming as Eric said the positive news of coal being a greater market share.
We do have the easier comp.
And if volumes materialize we would hope to see that in our margins on that business that we've repriced.
So I guess I would say that we are looking at things to be more normal as we look out for the balance of the year.
That's helpful.
And I guess before I turn it over Lance if you could talk to the Intermodal train length extension you saw over kind of 2% year-over-year improvement on Intermodal boxes.
Could you talk how that played out on both the domestic and the international train starts across your Intermodal franchise? Sure.
Off the top of my head I do not have the detail on how that splits out between the 2.
I can tell you that we do have sized opportunities on both.
I would say they're probably more on the domestic side.
But we've got plenty of train size opportunity both sides.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a question on the coal inventories.
Eric I know you mentioned that they're still elevated could you just give us a rough sense of kind of where they stand relative to historical norms? I mean are we still pretty far away from getting back to normalized levels? Yes.
So the numbers haven't come out for the latest month.
But as of the numbers that came out in March they still showed overall for the whole country 11 days above normal.
There's probably some pretty wide swings in that number between Eastern utilities and Western utilities.
I would expect a large number of the utilities in our serving area are putting -- getting pretty close to normal.
There are probably some that are below normal because they've taken some aggressive inventory actions.
So I would expect that we can see next month as the number come out you'll see some pretty normal and may even perhaps below normal inventory numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there any reason to think that the level of what should be normal changes at all going forward just with the relationship between natural gas and kind of where we are currently with the shale activity or kind of old normal is the right way to think about it? Yes.
I don't really see a huge change for the coal-centric utilities.
They're still -- it's in their best interest to burn coal and they're in essence competing against the natural gas-centric utilities.
And so they're going to get their burn patterns up and they need a certain run rate to protect their burn pattern to protect against outages.
So I don't see a significant shift in what has been historical normal inventory patterns for coal-centric utilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I just want to come back to and I apologize just on the mix aspect within coal yields.
I'm trying to get kind of a handle on how to think about that.
Can you give us a little bit of color of what kind of drives the big mix changes? It's just seeing more volume that had been repriced legacy volume that have been repriced moving relative to other business within the commodity group or I guess we're just trying to think about how to project this out in the next couple of quarters.
So if there's any little bit of color around the positive mix dynamic in the first quarter would be helpful.
Yes.
So when we talk about mix we're talking about the mix of Southern Powder River Basin coal Colorado/Utah coal export coal et cetera.
And so if you look at some of the places where there are volume -- volume reductions we've had positive mix in other areas because of some of the new Southern Powder River Basin coal opportunity that we have.
Our next question is coming from the line of Chris Ceraso of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So not to beat a dead horse but I do have a couple of follow-ups on coal.
First of all can you just give us a ballpark out of the let's say 19 percentage point decline that you had in coal in Q1? How much of that was associated with the loss business? Was it 5 points out of the 19 or something in that neighborhood? Rob? Yes Chris the contract that we've spoken about previously was about 5 percentage points on the volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I kind of put together all the things that you've talked about so far that coal is back up to 40% of the burn that inventories at the utilities in the west are back to normal or maybe below normal your comps are getting easier.
If we start to see increased volumes of coal should we expect that the pricing gets better because you'll start to move some of the stuff that you didn't move last year where you had recontracted at higher rates? It's really largely dependent on which customers grow and what areas and how those kind of play themselves out.
And again as we've talked in the past about our pricing calculations certain things may not come up in our pricing calculations but they will show in improved margins as repriced business that those volumes come back you'll see that in our margins even if you don't see it in our pricing calculation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up.
The depreciation bonus depreciation Rob what -- how much of a drag on cash flow do you think that might be for UP in 2013 versus 2012? Of course as you know we're getting still the benefit in 2013 of 50% bonus depreciation.
So which is what it was last year.
So that is not a huge driver in 2013.
But starting in 2014 we'll start to feel the impact of -- assuming there's no bonus depreciation beyond '13 we'll start to feel more of an impact.
There's a slight benefit this year when you add it all up.
Our next question comes from the line of Walter Spracklin of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up again on the Intermodal side.
I think when we look at the highway conversion opportunity I think largely the assumption has been that given your length of haul you have somewhat less of an opportunity than perhaps some of your eastern peers.
Have you looked at the market for hauls of above say 500 or 600 miles to address what that upside opportunity is and can you share that with us if you had a look at that? Sure we have.
Eric? Walter I guess I'm not necessarily sure I'm tracking why a longer length of haul should result in fewer opportunity.
We actually think the opposite that longer length of haul should result in more opportunities.
The current total size of our Intermodal book of business is about 3 million units a year closely equally divided between domestic and international.
We size the domestic attainable market opportunity and we talked about this in Dallas I think last fall.
We size that as somewhere around 10 million units.
Now not all of that will be easy to convert.
If you look at customers there's a stratification of large mid-sized and smaller customers.
The large customers the Walmarts the Targets of the world they are very intermodal centric already because they see the benefits of Intermodal.
They could tune their supply chains to Intermodal.
If you go to the mid-sized and smaller customers we certainly -- that's the target rich environment and we're working aggressively to sell the value of Intermodal to them and some of that requires them to tune their supply chains a little differently but that's the market opportunity the business development opportunity and frankly why we're so excited about the future potential.
And Walter when Eric talks about the 10 million opportunity that does not include another 2.5 million to 3 million trucks that moves back and forth between Mexico and the United States.
And as you know we're building a new Intermodal facility down in Santa Teresa to really target that Northern Mexico the maquiladoras and those kinds of things which will hopefully make a dent in that 2.5 million to 3 million unit opportunity as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great color.
Can you give us a sense of the available capacity on average of your Intermodal trains? Roughly how much incremental volume could we see go onto your new -- or Intermodal network without at fairly high incremental margin? Sure how about Lance? Sure.
So again that depends very much on the length that the opportunity show up in.
But just giving you an aggregate sense I think we've averaged what 170 units a train in the first quarter and most of our lanes could probably handle 250 plus/minus units.
Again very dependent on where it shows up and lanes specific.
LLC Research Division</strong> And you're fully -- - double-stack capable roughly your network? Virtually everywhere.
Our next question comes from the line of Cherilyn Radbourne of TD Securities.
I just had a question about your Ag business.
Obviously the USDA is forecasting some pretty large crops this year.
I just wonder as you look out over your draw territory what's your read on soil moisture conditions and I guess the risk of continued dryness in some areas and floods in others? Well I tell you what right here in Nebraska after the past month or so we're about ready to stick a fork in this drought.
We've had some nice heavy rains and heavy snows and things like that.
And hopefully that is doing its job in terms of replenishing the moisture content ground.
Eric you want to put some technical around that? Yes if you look at last year Cheryl the USDA said last year was going to be 1 of the 5 best years in all of history and then we know what happened.
So I take forecast with a grain of salt that this time of the year simply because so much of it is weather dependent.
As Jack said it appears to be a great start in our growing season nice moisture in our key breadbaskets we're all excited about that.
We're not out of the woods yet and we do need it to continue.
And you not only need it certainly for the spring planting season but you also need moisture in the critical parts of the heat of the summer.
So there's a long tail left before we can feel comfortable about the predictions of what will happen in the harvest at the late -- latter part of the year.
Okay.
And switching gears just in terms of the public crossing accidents that you're experiencing in the South which is really a function of your growth there and the whole region's growth how disruptive for you from an operational standpoint are those? And how quickly do you think you can bring that back down? Okay Lance? Yes sure.
Excellent question.
And just to predicate this is an extremely frustrating statistic for us.
We've been working very hard on impacting the trend for the past several years particularly down in Texas.
The short answer on how disruptive it varies but generally speaking it's a couple hours of downtime as the accident gets investigated and cleaned up.
So they are -- they have an impact.
It's variability.
It's not same order of magnitude typically as a derailment.
And in terms of when can we start moving the needle on the number I'm telling you we're doing everything in our power right now to try to impact that number.
As we look at it in large aggregate we're about on top of last year's statistics.
They're pretty volatile.
So what you saw in the first quarter is a little degradation.
But in general absolute number we're a bit worse but trying to navigate on top of last year's number.
It involves a lot of things like an audit and blitz of our railroad to find where the risk is.
The risk moves and grows rapidly with development of industry around us and in engaging the local authorities to care as deeply about the issue as we do to impact driver behavior.
So there's a lot of activity going on there.
That's a very difficult issue and sometimes you just -- I was surprised actually that we don't have the power to even put a stop sign up without getting the approval of local authorities and sometimes they just say no.
So there are some pretty significant obstacles out there towards changing driver behavior and getting everybody on the same page as we are as to how important this is.
Our next question is from the line of Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to follow up on the comment about cross-border.
Can you just remind us how much Mexico contributes to the bottom line presently? And given the tremendous growth prospects what do you think it might look like over the next few years? Rob? Yes.
Tom we don't give the bottom line but I'll give you the top line.
It represents about 10% of our business levels currently and it's been growing nicely the last several years across the board.
The mix of the commodities has been growing at a pace greater than our overall volumes have been growing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a more housekeeping-related question.
With regard to the $40 million in other income we estimate that -- I think you mentioned land sales contributed about $0.02 a share what's the remainder of the $40 million? Rob? Miscellaneous transactions.
I don't -- I wouldn't call anything out in particular that was driving that.
That's relatively -- the balance would represent a relatively normal run rate for us.
Our next question is from the line of Jason Seidl of Cowen.
Research Division</strong> I guess my questions more longer term here.
I look at your 65% OR target by 2017 and to me it seems fairly attainable.
I mean you just reported a first quarter that had fewer working days in it you had a record OR coal's under pressure Ag's under pressure.
Talk to me about that goal that you have out there and what some of your underlying assumptions are in terms of some of the commodity groups and also your core pricing which also seems fairly strong x coal at 4.5%.
Sure we think it's attainable too.
Rob? Jason I mean you've heard me say this over the years.
I mean it's not an end game it's the next target that we've put out there not unlike when we set the original 75% target.
We got there as efficiently as we could and got there a little early.
Then we set the low 70s got there as efficiently as we could and got there a little early.
We hope to get to this -- the previous sub 67% earlier as we mentioned last fall and I'd say the same -- make the same comment about the sub 65%.
So we're going to get there the same way we're going from where we are today to the sub 65% is the same way we got from the high 80s down to where we are today.
And that is efficient safe operations leveraging productivity providing great service to our customers allows us to price it fairly.
Fuel can obviously be a whipsaw on us depending on what fuel does in terms in the calculation on the operating ratio.
But I would just take comfort that we're going to -- that our assumption is a normal economy.
If the economy cooperates and fuel prices are normal if you will and we're going to go after it as efficiently and as quickly as we can.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of your assumptions for coal and its market share versus nat gas in that 65% OR? I mean we don't get into that level of detail other than I would say it's sort of a normal.
I mean we certainly think that Powder River Basin Coal is here to stay perhaps at lower levels than what we historically experienced but our assumption is that it's sort of a normal from here on out if you will.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up question on your Southern region it seems like you had a little bit of challenges operationally.
And is it starting to feel better already in 2Q and how should we look at that throughout the year? Sure.
Lance? Yes.
It is starting to look better.
The actions that I mentioned in my comments regarding utilizing fluid routes terminals making sure we adjusted our resources rapidly that made a difference in the tail end of March and we're looking much more favorable in the South right now in the first few weeks of this quarter.
Plus we had our maintenance programs were very heavy in the first quarter that was planned.
Those are now starting to be completed and some additional capacity projects coming on as we go through the year with capital and each one of those adds a margin of fluidity and improvement in our variability.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So all things being equal we should start seeing that come out in your weekly performance numbers? Yes I expect so.
Our next question is from the line of Keith Schoonmaker of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> This is probably related to Jason's question there I guess on how the improvements were accomplished in the Southern region fluidity but related of years' $1 billion or so growth in productivity CapEx at this point can you cite a couple of projects that are perhaps most material likely to impact income or ROIC over the rest of the year and next? Lance? Sure.
So we've got some new capacity and commercial facility spending that will have some impact.
We've got a very large facility in Santa Teresa.
It includes an Intermodal ramp that we think is going to really aid what Jack talked about in terms of cross-border truck traffic and conversion to Intermodal plus a fueling facility.
We've got some excellent work going on in terms of more fluid operations to our crude oil destinations.
We should see benefits of that over the years.
We've got capacity that's being spent up in the northern tier of our network as well as in Texas to enable incremental more fluid frac sand movement.
We've really got it spread all over the railroad largely concentrated in Texas from Louisiana but there are key projects all over the railroad that are unlocking critical pieces of capacity for us.
There are some things Keith that we have kind of scaled back given the volumes that we're seeing and in the way the economy is running like for instance the double tracking of the Sunset Corridor where we're 70% done with that and -- but we're pacing it a little differently to watch in terms of the volume but long-term potential is the ability to take that from 55 trains a day to 90 which would be a huge step forward for us.
We have the Mississippi River bridge that we're continuing to work on that is a key bottleneck that would be eliminated as we go through that project.
In the Blair -- we have a Blair cutoff that is not order of magnitude that big but anything that would save 3 to 4 hours of transit time on the trains that go through our Central Corridor to Chicago eventually helps the bottom line enormously.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe a one quick shorter-term question perhaps for Eric.
We're seeing stronger growth in housing at last.
Lumber improved 18% probably as a result of that.
Could you comment on where and how material housing improvements are showing up elsewhere be it light trucks some Intermodal et cetera? Great question.
We're excited about the housing improvement finally.
It -- housing is actually running ahead of the original Global Insight estimates and I think the housing or the lumber producers are pretty positive about the trends that they're seeing and the housing start numbers that they're seeing.
Housing in addition to impacting lumber it's also going to impact our Intermodal business.
As you know once homes are built you have to furnish them.
And so both on the International Intermodal business and the Domestic Intermodal business we think that housing will have an impact on that.
We think housing will also have an impact on ancillary business like our steel wheel book rebar business which goes into construction.
Our cement business our cement business we think that that will strengthen as housing strengthen.
So all of those are things that will go as housing goes.
Research Division</strong> Eric it sounds like you're using future tense though that those are still sort of pending improvements am I reading that correctly? No.
I've been around here long enough.
I remember when housing was regularly 1.7 million 1.8 million starts a year so even though we're back up to around 970 off a low of -- below 600 970 still feels low to me.
So I will feel like it's back regular normal when it gets above 1.3 1.4 1.5.
But if you look Keith like in our cement business I think it was up about 6% in the first quarter.
Our plastics business which include things like PVC pipe and those kinds of things that they're using in housing construction were also up in the first quarter.
So we are seeing the residual impact that goes along with the incremental lumber.
Our next question comes from the line of John Mims of FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick one for me just this late in the call.
Eric I stepped away for a minute could you repeat what you were saying about International Intermodal and maybe add to any comments related to outlook for any sort of a peak season in '13? What I was talking about International Intermodal is that as housing starts increase you need to furnish the homes and so we do see a trend between International Intermodal upswing as housing start improves that was the connection that I was making.
Last year what we said was that it was a muted peak season.
I think we used those words last year.
It's early in the year and it's -- at this point in the year what happens and peak will determine on the economic conditions consumer confidence retail sales all of those things will determine kind of what happens in peak volumes.
Right now we are expecting the Intermodal peak to be stronger than last year.
The order of magnitude is -- we're not sure we'll get it really depends a lot -- bidding season is just coming in right now for a lot of those international contracts between the retailers and the ocean carriers and things like that so there's still a lot to be determined in terms of how that'll play out for the summer.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
So as of right now though it's still just more of a read on the macro versus you having real conversations as far as staging capacity with the liners or with the major shippers? Right that's right.
Our next question comes from the line of Ben Hartford of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just to expound on that I guess this 8% growth in the first quarter I'm assuming that's not a run rate for the balance of the year and that the first quarter you did benefit to some degree from certain shippers shifting away from the East Coast to the West Coast ahead of any sort of East Coast ILA strike during the first quarter.
Is that the right? Is that the right way to think about the volume the first quarter volume? Yes.
We do not expect to see that kind of run rate for the year.
There was some nominal impact of shifts from the East Coast but very small.
The bigger factor frankly was the timing of the Chinese Lunar New Year this year versus last year and there was some advanced shipping because of that that was probably the larger impact.
Plus we did see an impact -- inventories were pretty thin after the holiday season last year.
And you did see an impact of inventory catch-up by -- in January.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then on the coal side I know you kind of earmarked a number of different various items that drove RPU above expectations to the $2 300 level.
Is this a good level to be thinking about then? I mean you kind of -- you hit on mixed legacy fuel surcharge and some liquidated[ph] damages as well driving that number.
But is this $2 300 level a good level to think about for coal as it relates to RPU for the balance of the year? Rob? As we indicated in some previous discussions I'd be careful using a run rate of ARC because mix can have such an impact on that up or down.
So again we're going to aggressively go after providing the good service and repricing where we can but the ARC number can move on you.
Our next question is from the line of John Larkin with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe more of a conceptual question on the Intermodal side.
The UP's service levels have improved dramatically over the last 10 years or so and have generally caught up to the other big Western railroad.
And I guess the question is as you see the service levels right now where do you think you have a competitive advantage versus the competitor where do you think the competitor has an advantage? Is that how you think of marketing the service in particular power lanes where you might have better on-time performance or a better velocity? And based on some of the investments that you're putting into the ground now will you see that competitive positioning change at all here over the next couple of years? Yes Eric? Yes so good question.
To start with we -- as we look at our Intermodal network we are actually proud of the fact we go to many more places than our competitor in the West in terms of our franchise in terms of origin destination points where we have service too.
And that's really the power of the diversity of our franchise.
We just get to and from many more places than the customer base.
A large portion of the customer base does see value in that.
Having said that for the places where we do compete head to head we kind of assess where we are very regularly.
And we are pleased that in most of the places where we compete head to head we think our service is as good or materially better and the majority of the places where we compete head to head.
There are a couple of places where our competitor has a slight advantage and we are continuing to put initiatives and strategies in place to ensure that we have the best service in the industry.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe one question that you don't need to answer if you don't want to but I'll ask it anyway.
With respect to operating ratio as the key metric to focus on for the future you've said again here today that you believe you'll get to a 65% or lower for the full year 2017 that seems like a very achievable target as one of the other analysts mentioned.
But what happens if in 2016 Eric comes to Jack with a $400 million project that has a 68% operating ratio on it does that put you in the position of perhaps saying no to that project or do you feel as though you can still accommodate that and access that incremental traffic? Would return on invested capital be a better measure or some other measure that takes into account the generation of free cash flow? Just conceptual thought in terms of whether operating ratio is the correct metric? John when we look at business opportunities at a high level and at a specific level we're really focused on the reinvestability of the business our ability to provide good efficient safe and consistent service for that customer.
And then we deal with it on that basis in terms of the acquisition or whether we take on the business or not.
We don't really think about it in terms of the operating ratio.
But I will turn that over to Rob in terms of broader discussion of the key measures.
Yes.
John I mean I get your point.
And I would say that we set operating ratio target out there just as a way of kind of speaking in our organization as setting our mind towards making financial improvement.
But at the end of today it's focused on returns.
So we know we still got room to go in improving our operating ratio which will improve our earnings which improves our cash which if we do all the investments correctly improves our returns.
So they all kind of go together.
But at the end of the day it's the improving our returns.
It's a really portfolio of measures.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Kauffman of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> It's been a long call and most of mine have been answered so let me just throw a quick one out there.
I see the carloads for the crude business if I thought about that in terms of trains per day and how to allocate those carloads roughly how many trains a day are you doing in the crude business relative to how many trains a day for the system total? And is it fair to assume this would be the follow-up that it's longer haul business and therefore a higher RPU than your average chemical RPU? Lance? Sure.
Trains per day were in the 5 plus/minus ballpark.
Length to haul...
750 miles.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And how many trains per day for the total network? In the total network boy varies by day a week and moment in time.
But for instance right now we probably have 820 trains on our network.
Research Division</strong> Per day? Excuse me you're asking a question that I don't think I can answer because the question I just gave you was terminating or originating trains per day on crude and the trains per day in the network I look at as inventory.
So I really can't answer your question the way you've asked it.
Our next question comes from the line of David Vernon of Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So Rob I noted here you're talking about a new equipment rate study on the depreciation line.
Did that lower the rate that you guys are depreciating the equipment at for -- on a-go forward basis? So if you could add some color to that? Yes.
So I mean the result of the study was elongated if you will the depreciation on those assets combine that with the fact that we're running a fewer gross ton miles resulted in a lower depreciation rate than what we've previously experienced.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I think it was 5 -- the depreciation was 5.6% in the last Q.
Is it -- can -- do you know the number off the top of your head or should we just wait for the Q? In the first quarter depreciation rate was 3%.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> 3% okay.
And the fuel surcharge revenue in the quarter? I'm sorry? LLC.
Research Division</strong> Fuel surcharge revenue in the quarter? About 0.5 point on the revenue line.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> 0.5 point on the revenue line okay.
Our next question is from the line of Justin Long of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> In the quarter your volumes were down a little over 3% sequentially but operating expenses were up nearly 4% if you look on a sequential basis.
Just on a high level can you talk about some of the puts and takes that drove that discrepancy and would you say that's not a trend you would expect going forward? Mix is always a factor in that particular calculation when you look at car loading sequentially and the expense going forward.
So I guess I would say that take the guidance that we've given you in terms of the components as best you can as best way of looking at it rather than trying to calculate that particular sequential relationship.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then as a follow-up could you comment briefly on CapEx and remind me where you stand from a railcar equipment perspective and any investments you might need to make there given your volume outlook for the remainder of the year? Sure.
Our current CapEx is targeted at about $3.6 billion for the year which is down just a bit from last year.
It does include some equipment acquisitions that are needed for our business growth and replacements of retiring assets.
If you had some specific question beyond that? Research Division</strong> Maybe specifically on the car types that you're looking to purchase this year.
Lance? Sure.
We're picking up some auto rack.
We're picking up some food-grade covered hoppers.
we're picking up a handful of other types.
Some...
Refrigerated boxcars and some containers.
And John it's -- it's less than $200 million of 	the $3.6 billion just to kind of size if for you.
Thank you.
We've come to the end of our time for the questions and answers today.
I will now turn the floor back over to Mr.
Jack Koraleski for closing comments.
Well great.
Thanks so much for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to speaking with you again in July.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
Welcome to the Union Pacific Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Jack Koraleski CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you.
Mr.
Koraleski you may begin.
Thanks Rob and good morning everybody.
Welcome to Union Pacific Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With me today in Omaha are Rob Knight our Chief Financial Officer; Eric Butler our Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; and Lance Fritz our Executive Vice President of Operations.
This morning we're pleased to announce that Union Pacific achieved an all-time record quarter generating an earnings milestone of $2.37 per share an increase of 13% compared to the second quarter of 2012.
We managed our network efficiently and continued to show the agility of our strong and diverse franchise.
When combined with solid core pricing gains we more than offset the slight shortfall in volumes generating a new best-ever quarterly operating ratio of 65.7% translates into value that we're creating for our customers and increased financial returns for our shareholders.
So with that let's get started.
I'll turn it over to Eric.
Thanks Jack and good morning.
Let's start with how we're creating value for our customers the cornerstone of our strategy.
It all starts with the industry's best franchise which provides customers access to diverse and growing markets.
Through targeted investments we continue to enhance this franchise so that we can deliver the best service and support future growth.
Our passion for providing excellent service has allowed us to introduce innovative products that not only win business but also secure re-investable returns.
And the capstone of our value proposition is our relationship with our customers a key component that we work hard to develop and maintain.
Today our value proposition is stronger than ever as reflected by our customer satisfaction scores which came in at 93 for the second quarter.
We appreciate this recognition from our customers and continue to focus on providing excellent service and strengthening our value offering.
In the second quarter volume was down about 1% compared to last year as strong growth in Chemicals and solid gains in Automotive were offset by declines in Intermodal and Ag.
The drought-related decline in Ag continues to have a significant impact on overall volume.
Setting Ag aside the other 5 groups were up about 1% in total.
Core price improved 4% with all 6 businesses posting gains.
Those pricing gains along with some positive mix were the main drivers in the 5% improvement in average revenue per car.
With price-driven average revenue per car gains outpacing the volume decline freight revenue grew 5% to more than $5.1 billion.
Let's take a closer look at each of the 6 groups starting with the 2 that saw declines.
Ag products revenue declined 8% with second quarter volume down 10% and a 2% improvement in average revenue per car.
Last summer's drought continued to impact grain carloadings with second quarter volumes down 22% from last year.
Domestic feed grain shipments declined as tight U.S.
corn supply especially in UP-served territories led to reductions in livestock feeding and increased sourcing from local crops that are less likely to move by rail.
Export feed grain shipments also declined with limited U.S.
supply and improved world production.
Grain product shipments were down 1% as more DDGs were fed locally driving a 17% decline in DDG's volume.
Ethanol shipments provided some good news growing 3% as production picked up to replenish low ethanol inventories.
Food and refrigerated shipments also declined 3% as lower U.S.
sugar prices driven by surplus conditions reduced sugar imports from Mexico and restrictions in Russia and China limited U.S.
beef and pork exports.
Intermodal revenue was down 1% as a price-driven 2% improvement in average revenue per unit partially offset a 3% decline in volume.
The lower volume was due to declines in International Intermodal where soft West Coast imports reduced shipments by 8% following strong first quarter gains.
With modest retail sales growth retail has remained cautious about overstocking inventory levels.
Volume fared better for Domestic Intermodal where continued success converting highway business to rail in both dry and refrigerated containers drove volume up 3%.
Automotive volume grew 4% which combined with an 8% increase in average revenue per car to drive revenue up 12%.
Driven by replacement demand favorable financing and an improving overall economy vehicle sales continued to gain momentum with the seasonably adjusted annual sales rate reaching $15.9 million in June the highest level since late 2007.
New models offering more features and improved fuel efficiency are compelling consumers to replace aging vehicles.
In addition upticks in housing and construction activity have increased demand for light trucks.
While overall auto sales continue to reflect strong growth our finished vehicle shipments saw a more modest increase reflecting a 2% gain as select OEMs faced downtime to deal with model changes and new product launches.
Parts volume increased 5%.
Our pricing gains in the previously mentioned Pacer network logistics management arrangement increased average revenue per car.
Chemicals volume increased 10% which combined with the 2% improvement in average revenue per car to produce a 12% increase in revenue.
Crude oil volume was up 3% from the previous quarter and increased nearly 40% when compared to the second quarter of last year.
Growth was driven primarily by increased shipments from Bakken Western Oklahoma and West Texas shale plays in UP-served terminals in St.
James Louisiana and the Texas Gulf Coast and Arkansas.
Our petroleum products and LPG gas business was up 10% driven by growth in residual fuel oil and asphalt shipments.
Strong international demand for potash led to a 7% increase in fertilizer shipments while most other segments also posted gains reflecting the continued strength of our Chemicals business.
Turning now to Coal you can see from the chart of weekly carloadings that the second quarter volumes began to stabilize and finished the quarter a little bit better than flat compared to last year.
Core pricing gains led to a 12% improvement in average revenue per car and produced a 12% increase in revenue.
Tonnage from the Southern Powder River Basin increased 1% as declining utility stockpiles and higher natural gas prices improved the demand for coal.
Powder River Basin stockpiles are estimated to have declined 21% from their peak in April 2012 swinging from 24 days above normal at that time to about 1 day below normal this May.
New business also provided a boost but these gains were offset by utility outages and the previously mentioned loss of a legacy customer contract at the beginning of the year.
Soft domestic demand a weak international market for Western U.S.
coal and mining production issues lifted limited shipments -- limited shipments of Colorado/Utah coal with tonnage down 11%.
Industrial Products revenue increased 7% even as volume remained flat driven by 6% improvement in average revenue per car.
Nonmetallic minerals volume was up 18% as continued growth in shale-related drilling increased frac sand shipments by 24%.
Growth in housing starts and residential improvements increased the demand for lumber with shipments up 11%.
Although the housing market continued to strengthen lumber's pace of growth eased slightly in the second quarter as falling lumber prices excess inventory and wet weather slowed lumber shipments.
On the downside lower steel production and soft global demand impacted scrap steel with volume down 17%.
Rock shipments declined 5% as local sourcing impacted some of our short-haul business into the Eagle Ford shale play.
We also saw a steep decline in military shipments with reduced deployments and training rotations to facilities on our network.
That wraps up the second quarter so let's take a look ahead at what we see for the second half of 2013.
Our current outlook is for the economy to show some improvement from the sluggishness we've seen in the second quarter.
Although we'll continue to face challenges in some markets our diverse franchise still provides opportunities to grow in others.
The diminished 2012 corn crop will continue to impact Ag products in the third quarter but an improving export wheat market should offer some relief.
The pace of decline for Ag Products should ease with third quarter volumes expected to be down in the lower-single-digit range.
We hope to see a return to trend line yields when the new crop -- corn crop comes in later in the year which should provide some opportunity.
Global Insight has raised their full year light vehicle sales estimate to 15.4 million vehicles from 15.0 million at the beginning of the year which should be good news for our Automotive business.
Crude oil should continue to drive Chemicals growth but the growth rate will continue to ease against 2012's larger base.
Most other chemical markets are expected to remain solid.
Moving to coal the loss of a customer contract at the beginning of the year will continue to impact volumes.
While we expect coal lines to increase sequentially in the third quarter year-over-year volume quote for the quarter will depend upon weather conditions.
Industrial Products should also continue to benefit from shale-related growth with increased drilling activity and a ramp-up in pipeline projects after a slow start to the year.
The housing market continues to recover which is expected to drive demand for lumber.
We expect continued success in converting highway business for Domestic Intermodal and International Intermodal should pick up as the slowly growing economy is expected to produce a positive but somewhat muted peak season.
For the remainder of the year our strong value proposition and diverse franchise will continue to support business development opportunities across our broad portfolio of business.
Assuming an improving economy and a normal summer weather pattern we expect to finish the full year with a slight volume increase which combined with pricing gains will generate profitable revenue growth.
And with that I'll turn it over to Lance.
Thanks Eric and good morning.
I'll start with our safety performance for the first half of the year.
Our year-to-date reportable personal injury rate increased 5% from 2012.
However the number of severe injuries declined to a record low which reflects our work to reduce risk and the team's deep personal commitment to safety something we call the courage to care.
Rail equipment incidents or derailments improved 1% versus 2012.
Our continued investments to harden our infrastructure as well as leverage advanced defect detection technology have driven a reduction in track and equipment-induced derailments.
Moving to public safety our grade crossing incident rate improved 3% versus 2012 reflecting our focus on improving or closing high-risk crossings and reinforcing public awareness.
Our second quarter rate of 1.85% was a second quarter best and represented a significant improvement over the first quarter performance.
Incidence rate -- incident rates improved in each region of our network including the South where there is a higher grade crossing density than our overall network.
Moving on to network performance in the second quarter the network remained fluid but it does have room for improvement.
Overall velocity was down 3% and terminal dwell was up 4% in the quarter both adversely impacted by weather interruptions and heat-induced slow orders in the southwestern portion of the network.
Increased track renewal programs in high-volume quarters also played a role.
Weather challenges included flooding that impacted major gateways in Chicago St.
Louis and Eagle Pass Texas.
As a result we saw a 25% increase in the number of days with major service interruptions versus the second quarter of last year.
Infrastructure investments that enhanced our agility and resiliency enabled us to rapidly recover after each incident reducing the impact from these events.
Overall our network remains solid and well positioned to handle volume growth.
We continue to provide outstanding local service to our customers with a best-ever 96% Industry Spot &amp; Pull which measures the delivery or pulling of a car to or from a customer.
Our Service Delivery Index the measure of how well we are meeting overall customer commitments declined modestly compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Half of the decline can be attributed to tighter service commitments to our customers and the effects of traffic mix changes.
Despite these challenges we achieved sequential improvement in both service delivery and terminal dwell compared to the first quarter.
Solid network fundamentals position us to operate at improved service levels going forward.
We are continuing to increase capacity across our network most notably in the South where volumes have rebounded to prerecession levels.
Moving on to network productivity slow order miles declined almost 30% to a best-ever second quarter level.
We've made substantial advancements in the South with process improvements that allow us to maintain the railroad while providing value-added service levels.
As a result our network is in excellent shape reflecting the investment in replacement capital that has hardened our infrastructure and reduced service failures.
We continue to leverage existing resources in growth markets as well as realize efficiencies in more challenging segments.
During the second quarter we turned the 4% growth in Automotive volumes into an average train size increase of 2% running an all-time quarterly record of 65 cars per train during the quarter.
And despite the 22% decline in grain volumes we were able to run near-record second quarter grain train lengths with manifest and coal train lengths falling just short of quarterly records.
Intermodal train sizes reflect the challenge of an 8% dip in International volume.
We continue to find ways to utilize assets more effectively through process improvement and targeted capital investment.
A good example of this is the Fort Worth terminal which is a major network yard that supports Texas oil and gas fields Mexico the automotive network and construction markets.
UP Way uses process improvement tools like value stream mapping and the A3 problem-solving process to find and apply countermeasures for process bottlenecks and service failures.
More importantly it engages those doing the work in generating these countermeasures collecting and focusing the power of the team.
Through our UP Way initiatives we are handling substantially more cars through a key network yard in Fort Worth at better service levels.
Our capital investment strategy also plays a vital role.
Our targeted 2013 capital spend is still around the $3.6 billion mark.
About $2 billion of that is replacement capital with most of that to renew our track infrastructure.
We're on target for the year as more than half of that program work is now complete.
Spending for service growth and productivity will total around $1 billion.
Capacity commercial facilities and equipment are the primary drivers.
Spending on positive train control will total $450 million for the year.
Major projects include work on the Santa Teresa New Mexico rail facility which is slated to open in early 2014.
This year's progress on the Sunset Corridor includes about 30 miles of double track.
Additionally our capacity expansion plans in the South are increasing more than threefold from spending levels in 2011 helping support the efficient movement of growing volumes in that region.
We're adding sightings expanding terminals double-tracking some routes and upgrading signals.
We're also purchasing 100 locomotives 900 freight cars as well as some domestic containers to replace units currently on lease or being retired.
It's important to note that all of these projects have a positive safety impact whether it's replacement or service and growth capital.
And the growth capital must meet aggressive return thresholds or we just will not pursue the project.
Let me wrap it up.
We remain optimistic on our operating outlook for the second half of the year and our ability to realize network improvements on various fronts.
We remain steadfast in our commitment to operate a safer and more efficient railroad for the benefit of our employees customers the public and shareholders.
We remain agile managing network resources in response to dynamic market shifts and unexpected events.
The network is strong and fluid capable of handling volume growth at safe efficient and reliable service levels.
Our continuous improvement efforts and particularly the UP Way will continue to generate process improvements that add value for all of our stakeholders.
To support our growth initiatives we will continue to make smart capital investments that generate attractive returns all of which will continue to enhance our overall value proposition.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
Let's start with a quick recap of our second quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 5% to an all-time quarterly record of nearly $5.5 billion driven mainly by solid core pricing gains.
Operating expense totaled $3.6 billion increasing 3%.
Operating income grew 9% to $1.9 billion also getting a best-ever quarterly mark.
Below the line other income totaled $23 million up $2 million compared to 2012.
For the full year we're still projecting other income to be in the $100 million to $120 million range barring any unusual adjustments.
Interest expense of $133 million was $2 million lower than last year while income tax expense increased to $662 million driven by higher pretax earnings.
Net income grew 10% versus 2012 while the outstanding share balance declined 2% as a result of our continued share repurchase activity.
These results combined to produce a best-ever quarterly earnings record of $2.37 per share up 13% versus 2012.
Turning to our top line freight revenue grew 5% to more than $5.1 billion.
Solid core pricing gains of 4% and positive mix of about 2 points driven by a decline in lower average revenue per car Intermodal shipments more than offset the slight decline in volume levels.
In addition fuel surcharge revenue was down from last year due to a lower average diesel fuel price and lower volumes.
Moving on to the expense side Slide 22 provides a summary of our compensation and benefits expense which was up 3% compared to 2012.
Inflationary pressures of about 2.5% combined with shifts in traffic mix to more manifest business which requires additional employees drove the quarterly increase.
Lower volume costs and productivity gains partially offset these increases.
Workforce levels increased 2% in the quarter.
About half of the increase was driven by capital projects including positive train control activity.
The other half was driven by a shift in traffic mix that I just discussed.
Turning to the next slide fuel expense totaled $863 million decreasing $19 million versus 2012.
A 3% decline in the average diesel fuel price drove the reduction in the cost.
Gross ton miles were essentially flat compared to last year.
Conversely our consumption rate increased 2% compared to 2012.
Moving on to other expense categories.
Purchase services and materials expense increased 8% to $585 million due to higher locomotive and freight car contract repair expenses and joint facility maintenance expenses.
As we discussed in April we continue to incur logistics management fees associated with the new Pacer agreement which are recouped in our Automotive freight revenue line.
Depreciation expense increased 1% to $438 million.
The impact of increased capital spending in recent years was partially offset by a new equipment rate study that we discussed with you earlier this year.
Looking at the full year 2013 we now expect depreciation expense to be up in the 1% to 2% range versus 2012 due to the timing of asset purchases and project work completion.
Slide 25 summarizes the remaining 2 expense categories.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $302 million up 1% compared to 2012.
Increased container expenses associated with the new Pacer contract and growth in automotive shipments drove higher freight car rental expense.
Lower freight car and locomotive lease expense partially offset these increases.
Other expenses came in at $219 million up $29 million versus last year.
Despite the long-term improvement trend in our safety performance personal injury expense increased compared to a tough comp last year.
Our recent actuarial study resulted in a smaller reduction to our estimate for prior year activity compared with the second quarter of last year.
In addition higher operating taxes and freight and property damage costs also drove expenses up compared to 2012.
For the second half of this year we still expect the other expense line to average around $225 million a quarter barring any unusual items.
Turning to our operating ratio performance we achieved an all-time best operating ratio of 65.7% this quarter improving 1.3 points compared to last year.
Our performance highlights the positive impact of solid core pricing gains and network efficiencies despite the slight shortfall in volumes.
Looking ahead we remain committed to achieving a full year sub-65 operating ratio by 2017.
Union Pacific's record first half earnings drove strong cash from operations of more than $3.2 billion up 16% compared to 2012.
Free cash flow of $833 million reflects the growing profitability of the franchise more than offsetting the 12% increase in cash dividend payments versus 2012.
Our balance sheet remains strong supporting our investment-grade credit rating.
At quarter end our adjusted debt-to-cap ratio was roughly 40%.
Opportunistic share repurchases continue to play an important role in our balanced approach to cash allocation.
In the second quarter we bought back nearly 3.1 million shares totaling $463 million.
Since 2007 we've repurchased over 97 million shares at an average price of around $82 per share.
Looking ahead we have about 9 million shares remaining under our current authorization which expires March 31 2014.
So that's a recap of our second quarter results.
Looking at the remainder of the year the economy will be a key driving factor.
Assuming an improving economy and summer weather conditions that will drive coal demand and fall crop harvest yields we're projecting positive volume growth for the second half of the year which should bring full year volumes to the positive side of the ledger.
In the third quarter we'll continue to see a year-over-year decline in our Ag volumes however not at the magnitude that we saw in the second quarter.
As for our coal shipments summer weather will be the determining factor.
In addition we'll have to see how consumer sentiment and the economy impact the Intermodal peak season this year.
However we do think there are continued growth opportunities in other market sectors that have the potential to offset these uncertainties.
Combined with continued real core pricing gains and our ability to leverage our diverse franchise we expect to achieve yet another record financial year with best-ever marks in earnings and operating ratio.
We're well positioned through the first half of this year.
Regardless of the hand that the economy deals us we'll remain focused on our ability to generate improving returns required to strengthen and enhance our network create value for our customers and drive increased returns for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jack.
Thanks Rob.
As we move into the second half of the year the economic outlook remains uncertain.
But from our perspective the underlying economy in the second quarter seemed somewhat weaker than it did in the first quarter.
We're hopeful that we'll see some economic improvement in the months ahead.
We are well positioned with our diverse franchise our strong value proposition and our excellent service offerings while remaining agile in today's changing environment.
We'll continue focusing on re-investable pricing attracting new profitable growth opportunities and running a safe efficient and reliable network that generates greater value for both our customers and our shareholders going forward.
With that we'll open up the phones for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Maybe first a question on the Coal business.
You saw a nice sequential step-up in the coal yields there.
I guess I'm just kind of trying to think about how we should be thinking about the mix of what was previously priced legacy business and maybe what is kind of a current run rate business as we think out into the back half of the year.
I guess I'm just trying to get a sense of maybe what the mix factors could be when we look at the Coal business in the second half of 2013.
Chris if you look at it I think we have a $350 million in legacy up for renewal this year and we retained about 80% of that.
Majority of that was Coal business.
There's really nothing significantly changing as we go forward for the balance of the year.
And the mix impact that you're going to see is really going to be dependent on the coal burn in the various customer regions and zones.
So there's really not much more clarification.
Eric do you have anything to add to that? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess I'm just trying to maybe get a sense.
You lost the contract earlier in the year which I think that you had mentioned was about 5% of the business.
So it would seem that the underlying business is obviously doing better than kind of the flattish volumes you're seeing there.
But that's helpful.
Maybe switching gears with a follow-up just on the back of crude-by-rail when you think about the tightening differentials on WTI versus Brent have you seen a deceleration in the pace of activity at St.
James for instance? Just trying to get a sense of how we should be thinking about the sequential pace of crude-by-rail on the back half.
We really haven't seen any impact at St.
James.
We have had seen some minor impact in our Texas business where there's a lot of pipelines.
Eric do you want to...
Yes.
The intrastate Texas short-haul business we always take opportunistic opportunities to move some of that which is pretty directly competitive to pipeline given the fact that it's pretty short-haul stuff.
And so we've seen some decline in that.
But for -- that's really nominal.
For our base book of long-haul Bakken the St.
James business we feel pretty good about the continued opportunities with that.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> So I wanted to first just follow up on Coal.
So if I remember earlier in the year you guys were guiding to slight declines in Coal volumes for the full year and I guess the implication was positive volumes in the back half of the year.
It seems like you've got maybe less visibility to Coal now.
I just want to understand that.
Are you no longer confident that you're going to have positive Coal in the full second half of the year? Go ahead Rob.
Scott we haven't changed our guidance where we said that for the full year that we still think Coal's going to be slightly down given all the factors and given the fact that it was down 19% in the first quarter.
So that does imply -- with the flat performance in the second quarter that does imply strengthening in the back half.
Where we're saying there's lack of clarity if you will is as always weather will be a huge factor in how the summer burn plays out in our Coal business.
And as Eric pointed out at this point in time inventories are about 2 days lower than normal so we're well positioned if the weather in fact cooperates.
LLC</strong> We're getting killed in New York with heat.
How is the weather cooperating in your territories right now? Well it's going to be 97 degrees in Omaha today so we're doing high fives.
But so far at least for the summer it's been okay was actually a cooler spring than what we had hoped for.
But the summer has heated up nicely and we're hoping that that's going to stay through the balance of the season.
Yes I want to add that the Energy Department has put out estimates that suggest that electrical generation demand will be down 4% in the second half of the year.
They probably don't have any better crystal ball than we do in terms of weather impacts but that is the data point that's out there.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just second question why is International Intermodal so weak? Is there share losses to BN? And do you think it's just the West Coast ports losing any share? They just seem surprisingly weak and I wanted to get an explanation for it and how you think that plays out in terms of peak season.
Part of it may be they were surprisingly strong in the first quarter.
But Eric you can clarify that.
Yes.
So our first quarter was strong if you recall.
There's always significant competition between all of the ports up and down the West Coast and between ourselves and our competitors but there's no significant share swings that have occurred.
The real fundamental issue is retail indicators in this country retail sales have really been mixed.
And you could argue even in the second quarter they looked like they have softened a bit.
Supply chain manufacturers and retailers are continuing to thin out the supply chain and trying to squeeze out inventories.
So you have actually seen lower volumes coming into all of the West Coast ports from Asia.
Certainly what's going on in China might also have an impact to that.
Certainly near-sourcing to Mexico might have an impact to that.
But you have seen lower volumes into all of the West Coast ports in the second quarter.
LLC</strong> So why do you have improved international peak as a positive in the second half? Well if you look at -- again what we've said is the economy is what our outlook is dependent upon.
If you look at inventory if you look at some of the sentiment it does suggest that later in the third quarter the fourth quarter there should be decent consumer sentiment for a strong retail season.
If that happens you will need to move the business because there are not a lot of inventories out there so that would suggest a pickup from where we are today.
Our next question is from the line of Tom Wadewitz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about the kind of look on coal beyond second half of this year and the weather comments.
But if you look into 2014 and 2015 have you seen a kind of I guess new indication from utilities that there are more coal plants being scheduled for shutdown or is that pretty much status quo? And when you look at that would you say hey there might be some impact in 2014 to demand from coal plant shutdowns or do you think that's not going to be much of an effect? Eric? So as we discussed previously coal shutdown plants in any amount that you might see really is not a factor because there's more capacity than demand.
And you might hear about shutdowns that just kind of match capacity and demand.
The key issue is what market share coal has.
Coal is hanging in there pretty solidly at the 38% 39% market share of total electrical generation.
We see nothing on the horizon that's going to substantially change it.
Certainly there could be some environmental regulatory thing that could change that.
But right now from a business economic standpoint we see nothing on the horizon that's going to change that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one on crude-by-rail you commented on I guess the near-term trend.
It sounds like there's somewhat negative impact on the short-haul business but really not in St.
James.
What about customer investment activity and the discussions that you're having that would kind of indicate how new terminals will be opened up looking out the next year or 2? Is there a change in discussions? Are customers kind of slowing things down at all? Or is it pretty much the same as what you saw before when crude spreads were wider? So actually customer investment in destination terminals is expanding both -- in St.
James there's a project well underway to expand that capacity.
But more importantly we've talked about this in the past.
If you look at what's going on in California there's significant activity in terms of expansion of destination terminals in California.
We've mentioned before California is going to have a significant short-haul.
Their local crude production is declining.
Alaska's slope is declining.
And so they're looking to source from Canada from the Bakken and also from the Niobrara and also Permian and so they need destination terminals in California.
And there's a significant activity significant investment going on.
Some has been public some is not.
Yes we have seen no diminishing in the enthusiasm for customer investment in the oil business.
Our next question is from the line of Bill Greene of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> In spite of a relatively modest revenue growth rate the OR this quarter was very impressive I think by any measure.
And if we look at kind of how things change sequentially typically your third quarter is the best.
And I know you don't give guidance so we're not sort of looking for that.
But if you think about kind of anything in the third quarter or on a sequential basis that means that we need to keep in mind something that's going to cause you now to be off.
Is there anything that you look at in this upcoming third quarter or even relative to last year that's important for us to bear in mind? Because this was pretty impressive and suggests that the long-term guidance will be achieved early.
Bill we don't see anything in the third quarter that would -- that we would consider to be unusual.
There's always in the rail business unforeseens that could happen.
But at this point in time we really don't have anything substantive.
Rob or Lance? Yes.
Bill I would just say that one thing to keep in mind is always a factor in our business is mix.
Obviously it can have a factor and so can fuel prices.
I mean if fuel price is up or down that can obviously have an impact.
But no there's nothing directionally that's going to change our commitment to continue to make progress on our operating ratio commitments.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Now if you think about these long-term OR goals that you have the ROIC has gotten to pretty good levels certainly relative to history.
How do you think about the implications over time of being above the cost of capital? Is that -- do we have to start thinking about regulatory risks yet or is this -- are we not really there? Well Bill as you've heard us say all along I mean we're proud of the fact that we've improved our returns.
We're going to continue to reinvest in the business which is how we are able to reinvest as much capital as we do.
And as you've heard me say many times if you look at our calculation of our returns on a replacement basis our returns are around -- Coal at 7%-ish.
So clearly room for us to continue to improve that on a natural replacement cost calculation.
So we're going to -- we're not going to change our behavior.
We'll continue to run a safe efficient network and price to value where we add value to our customers and continue to move forward in our returns so that we can continue to make these capital investments that we'd like to make.
Yes Bill every chance I get in Washington D.C.
my message is very very clear that while we earning good financial returns we are investing record amounts of capital.
We're providing great value and service for our customers.
And on a replacement cost basis we're still not in the ballpark of where we need to be.
And I think that message has been well reserved -- has been well received particularly given that customers are relatively satisfied with our service offerings.
Our next question comes from the line of Justin Yagerman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So I was curious on coal yields here when I look at things on an RPU basis.
I mean we saw volumes up nicely this quarter versus what we've seen at least for the past few quarters and RPU declined sequentially.
And I'm just trying to get an idea as we look out to the back half and expect improvement from a volume standpoint year-over-year.
How much of the prior legacy flow-through should influence RPU? And would I be smart to expect stable flat or down? And obviously I'm assuming that we get a decent burn going on this summer and that volumes do increase on a year-over-year basis.
Okay.
Rob do you want to take a shot at that? Yes.
Justin I mean the simple answer to your question is it's difficult to give guidance on what you're asking in terms of the average revenue per car because mix plays as a key factor in that.
But you're right.
Sequentially the average revenue per car did come down and it's driven primarily by the mix effect that Eric talked about where volumes as an example were off 11% in our Colorado/Utah business for example while PRB was up in the quarter.
So that's an example of the mix effect.
In terms of the pricing underlying what's happening in the Coal business there's no directional change.
We renewed those legacy contracts that Jack talked about and that should flow through to the balance of the year.
So there's no change in that element of the average revenue per car but the mix effect and the volume associated with those repriced contracts will clearly play a role as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And maybe a little bit on the longer-term view as we look out to the petrochemical projects that are coming online in your Southern Corridor.
Curious how we should be thinking about the timing.
I know there's at least one cracker in 2014 and most of the rest of the stuff is beyond '14.
But what's the timing of that project and how meaningful would you expect loads to start coming on in 2014 from that? Eric? As you're talking about the expansion of the chemicals production capacity due to low natural gas prices I think there are roughly 8 announced plant expansions.
Most of those have turnover to operation dates I think in 2016 or beyond.
And so we are working with them now in terms of developing transportation alternatives working with many of those customers and try -- and helping them shift their inbound construction materials to build the facilities.
But I think most of those will be late '15 early '16 or later.
Research Division</strong> Yes I think there was one the Gruppo Mossi project that had an estimated completion in 2014.
So I was curious as to what kind of production you would expect that to see.
And I know that one that you guys have called out before in presentations.
Yes we don't -- as you know we don't list production from individual plants and individual customers.
We do have a very strong Chemicals franchise with a lot of great value and we believe that there's upside.
I think what we might have called out in the past about the Gruppo Mossi facility was a 2016 start.
I think that's what we called out.
But we don't list individual opportunities in individual plants but we are excited about all of the upside.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Hoexter with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You talked earlier about International Intermodal.
If I can switch to Domestic Intermodal you're looking at -- I guess volumes were up about 3%.
Would you anticipate that to grow faster on that? I mean you've talked about it.
I think it was about 10 million addressable loads plus I think out of 2 or 3 from Mexico.
Do you expect the conversion rate to pick up or is the 3% kind of your targeted run rate? Eric? So as we look at Domestic Intermodal it's a rich target area.
I mean we have said publicly that there's probably 9 million 10 million loads that can be converted from truck to rail.
We have we believe the strongest North-South Mexico franchise.
We have 6 border points.
Truck business to and from U.S.
and Mexico is growing rapidly this year so we think there's a rich target area.
We have a number of strategies and initiatives that we're-- we have underway with our partners in the Intermodal industry to convert more truck to rail.
And so we think there's lots of upside.
Converting there are a lot of issues and a lot of things that need to be done to do that effective conversion.
So I'm not sure I will give a roadmap in terms of what the number will be at what period of time but we continue to believe there's significant upside in the Domestic Intermodal market.
I'm pretty excited Ken about the opportunity that we'll have in 2014 with the opening of our new facility in Santa Teresa to be able to take -- in addition to that 10 million truckloads there's another 3 between the U.S.
and Mexico.
And that facility is going to really -- we're going to really focus on that and target that.
So we're looking forward to having that facility up and running here in 2014.
And I'd like to make one other data point.
The new trucking CSA rule that went into effect July 1 we're not really seeing any impact from that right now but we do expect over time that there will be an impact from that which will make rail more competitive -- Intermodal more competitive.
Research Division</strong> You're talking about hours of service right? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess my other question is -- I think Rob mentioned during his speech that more manifest will drive a need for more employees.
Should we see that pace accelerate given some of the comments on the areas you're targeting whether it's crude-by-rail or some of the other areas that might be more manifest? Should we see that pace of employees pick up now? Rob? Ken it depends on the volumes and the mix is a part of it but I go back to our original guidance on headcount.
We sort of put capital aside because as I commented some of our headcount was earmarked on the capital and specifically how the trains go.
But if you look at our -- our net headcount should flow with volumes.
So if volume is slightly up I would expect headcount net to be slightly up.
If volume is going to be slightly down for example which I don't hope -- I don't want that to happen but if that were to happen we expect headcount to be down all of which not one for one because there is productivity in there.
So I think while manifest itself carries with it a little bit more labor intensity when you step back and look at it enterprise-wide that doesn't change our view on our headcount guidance.
Our next question comes from the line of Allison Landry of Credit Suisse Group.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could provide any detail on the volumes that were associated with the utility outages and the new business that you mentioned for the Coal business.
And specifically did the new business that you were talking about include any legacy Coal business that was repriced for 2012 but did not move? Eric? Rob? Allison if I understand your question you're asking in the second quarter what was the impact of some of the legacy repricing -- business that did not move let me attempt to answer and if I don't answer it correctly what you're asking come back.
We have previously said that as we reprice contracts if the volume doesn't move and we called this out in the second -- excuse me in the first quarter that we didn't get Coal at 0.5 point price because the repriced business the volume was down.
We're still experiencing that.
Now while we had sequential improvement in our volumes in our Coal business it's still not at the rate that -- the full load rate if you will back to historical levels.
So I would summarize by saying that if Coal volumes were to tick back up to historical levels there's still some upside opportunity there.
And depending on when it actually happens it may or may not show up in how we report our pricing but rest assured it would show up in our margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And is there any volume number that you could give us for the utility outage that you mentioned? No.
I mean it's in our numbers.
It's in the mix of our numbers.
We don't call that out specifically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up question on crude-by-rail.
You talked a lot about the destination side of the equation.
But I was wondering if you could speak to production ramping up in the Niobrara and how many rail facilities that you might serve there on the origination side.
Eric? Yes.
So as you know production in Niobrara is ramping up but it still is at much lower levels than what you see out of Bakken or out of some of the Canadian areas.
There are -- in terms of new -- or our customers and destination origin terminal owners there are a number of large projects underway.
I'm not going to call out the specifics but a number of large projects both on ourselves and on our competitors that are underway in terms of origin facilities out of the Niobrara.
Those are really targeted to move Niobrara product into California.
Our next question is coming from the line of Brandon Oglenski of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up from the question that Ken was asking on Intermodal.
You guys mentioned your new Santa Teresa facility that you are ramping up.
Does that mean that Ferromex is going to jump a little bit more aggressively into the cross-border Intermodal business with partnership with UP? Yes.
So our Santa Teresa facility that Jack was talking about is targeted to open in the first quarter of next year.
That facility is on UP and that'll do a number of things for us.
But one of the things that it'll do is it'll help us really penetrate the maquiladora market that is just south of the border and moving their products to destination in the U.S.
by long-haul truck.
We'll be able to convert that to Intermodal and move to Intermodal.
And so that's not really an FXE play.
It would not surprise me if the FXE is interested in growing the Intermodal business.
They have a great franchise as does the KCSM.
And as I said before there's a rich target opportunity there in terms of Intermodal particularly to and from Mexico.
So it would not surprise me if that were the case.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe Eric or Jack if you guys want to respond to this one as well.
But I think the risk that could develop here is if the slow economy continues do you think that Union Pacific can continue driving core pricing growth in the 4% range? I know there was some legacy contracts last year you're giving a little bit more benefit this year.
But it's our understanding that you don't have a significant book of business to reprice early in 2014.
So do you envision that if things kind of continue at the 2Q pace you could maintain that level of pricing growth? Or is there a little bit of risk to the economy there as well? Okay.
Rob go ahead.
Yes Brandon let me just remind everyone what we've said.
Again we haven't given guidance on specific pricing number other than to say that we're confident we can still get real pricing which some and many have defined that as sort of inflation-plus kind of pricing.
But as we talked before we're focused on making sure that every piece of business is re-investable.
But to your point of legacy I have called out that 2014 is a "legacy-light" year.
But that doesn't change our overall focus on pricing and our commitment to get that real core pricing gain.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Troy with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Given the market's evident enthusiasm with the Mexican business as evidenced by Kansas City Southern's multiple it's always worth noting you guys have an absolute basis and equally sized -- somewhat equally sized Mexican business.
Perhaps if you could just talk about I know we've touched on Intermodal but some of the growth that you saw in the second quarter how that business is trending in terms of near-shoring and business development.
What does the pipeline look like in terms of what might be coming online in Mexico to drive further and future growth? Sure.
Eric? So we are very excited about the Mexico market.
And as you may or may not know we are still the Kansas City Southern de Mexico KCSM largest interline partner to and from Mexico.
So we're excited about the franchise.
We are excited about all of the opportunities.
There's immense growth on the Auto side of the business.
There are a number of different automotive facilities that are being built and expanded in Mexico.
And between the KCSM and the FXE joining with the UP franchise that's a sweet spot for us.
The Mexican grain business is always very strong for us.
With the drought last year we have seen some weakness.
But as you have normal crop yields that is always a target area for us.
And then Intermodal is really kind of the untapped area.
There is a significant amount of Intermodal today in terms of -- for the auto manufacturers but if you take the auto manufacturers out of the mix there's Mexican North-South truck moves and we believe that that's an untapped area for us to penetrate and grow our Mexico business.
So we're very excited about Mexico.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Excellent.
I guess my follow-up question will be longer term.
We're starting to hear and see conceptual schematics and models of natural gas-powered locomotives.
Certainly the manufacturers are starting to talk about it more and potential for savings operationally of 20% 30% in terms of running cost.
Again this is all kind of theoretical at this point.
But to what extent are you examining natural gas locomotives beta testing where are you in that? And realistically what might be a time frame to see something deployed on a commercial basis? Sure.
Lance? Sure yes.
So there is a lot of work both at Union Pacific and in the industry on natural gas-powered locomotives.
We are positioning ourselves right now to start running some beta testing.
We have been partnered up with CN.
They used some of our equipment when they were beta testing and have seen their results.
It is not a layup from the standpoint of earning a reasonable return out of the investment necessary to convert to natural gas.
There's a significant capital footprint on the network and there's also a significant capital put into the rolling stock so that you can have tenders behind locomotives.
However it looks promising so we're investigating and pursuing.
Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Gallo with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> My question is on the Agricultural business.
2Q '13 volumes I think were the second lowest going back to 2007.
And so 2 questions really.
Has there any -- has there been any change other than say the droughts on your network with either customers coming on or off the network? And then secondly what have been the implications for you from an expense standpoint and how does that resolve itself as volumes eventually come back? Okay.
Eric? So let me talk about kind of the network.
We actually have been expanding our Ag network footprint as we've gone through the drought period.
We have invested and have created with our customers more originations and we have expanded our capability in terms of running larger more efficient trains in our network.
So while the drought has been underway we have actually positioned ourselves for the future to grow the business.
If you look at the Ag business yes it was near record lows but there are a couple of factors.
We had the drought.
We also had during this time don't forget we had the Russian and Chinese governments putting bans on some of our exports.
We had our sugar exports being impacted also in terms of -- from Mexico.
So all of those factors have impacted the volumes while we've had this drought.
In terms of our corn crop everyone is focused on so it's almost like a perfect storm.
But we feel pretty good about the future.
Assuming normal trend line yields our network is probably in better shape now than we were going into it in terms of being able to handle the upside.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Seidl of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> A quick question on the core pricing gains of 4%.
As we look into the back half of the year sort of all things being equal if you do get that lift from domestic coal if weather does cooperate will--could we see the core pricing numbers go up because of the previous legacy renewals? Rob? Yes Jason you could.
I mean just the math of it is as those some of those legacy contracts that we repriced if the volume increases that's a benefit for us this year.
So we'll have to see how it plays out.
LLC Research Division</strong> And sticking with the Coal theme for my follow-up how is the PRB looking in terms of sort of going to get some Eastern burn going forward? I know we've seen a little bit of a switch out from some of the Eastern plants Illinois[ph] basin.
Is there any room for PRB to pick up some steam? Eric? No.
Eastern utilities they have a choice between PRB.
They have a choice between Illinois coal.
They have a choice between Central Appalachian coal.
And the decision is really different for different utilities based on where they are in terms of the scrubbers and other environmental investments that they've made the materials that they would need to cleanse the coal like lime.
So I mean it's a different equation for every utility and I think every utility is looking at that equation and the mix of what they want to do.
In that context we are continuing to have discussions with Eastern utilities.
LLC Research Division</strong> But do you think there's a good chance that that could pick up in the future? Eastern utilities they're making these decisions.
They're investigating Southern Powder River Basin coal as one of numerous options.
We are excited about that.
We want to facilitate that but there are a lot of factors that go into their decisions.
Your next question is from the line of John Larkin with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rob would you care to talk about the magnitude of the fuel surcharge lag impact in the quarter? Could you kindly hang a number on that for us? Yes John I'd say it was a tailwind that when you consider the recovery of the lag the price of fuel et cetera it was a tailwind of $0.01 or so.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so not a major factor in the quarter? Right.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then also on the expense side in a world where volumes were down 0.5% to 1% expenses were up 3% which seems to run in the face a little bit of the company's long-running objective to try and offset cost inflation with productivity.
Was the mix and traffic to more manifest the main driver of that or was there something else going on? Rob? Yes John.
As I commented earlier manifest was a part of it.
I talked about the personal injury item.
While improved safety performance year-over-year it wasn't as good as last year's prior-period adjustment.
So that's a factor.
Headcount we are hiring as we talked about.
We're hiring partly manifest partly just getting ahead of the curve on some other replacement activities was a part of the activity as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Walter Spracklin with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mine are just 2 kind of follow-up questions.
First on Intermodal.
Can you tell us on the domestic side whether all of your growth right now is coming from conversions? Or is there any -- in other words is the economy playing at all a negative flat or a positive factor on your domestic side or is your entire growth coming from truck-to-rail conversion? Eric? I would use an estimate 2/3-1/3 2/3 conversion 1/3 economy.
So the majority of our growth is coming from conversion.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of your employee count just a follow-up on that.
You had mentioned that you wanted to grow your employee count somewhere less than volume.
It seems that it's growing at least more than volume in the first half so is that to indicate that we should see a reduction in your employee count in the back half of the year? Am I reading that right? That will be pretty hard to say.
So if you look at it Walter right now about half of that employee count was driven by capital spending PTC investment and those kinds of things.
One of the phenomena that we're seeing right at the moment is hiring or the replacement of people who will be retiring and leaving the workforce.
So we have probably a few extra people at this point in time because they're in training for the second half of the year and those kinds of things.
But I don't think it's going to change.
I don't know.
Rob do you see it differently? No.
Mix will play a factor but again our overall guidance is a net effect of headcount.
When we said capital side we'll be up or down with volumes with the assumption that we're continuing to get productivity behind that.
LLC Research Division</strong> So roughly how much of your guys here are capital people that are compared to last year? How many have you added for capital purposes versus last year? Rob said it was about half of our growth in headcount was capital and about half was driven by other.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Schoonmaker of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up on PRB.
I think at the investor meeting in October you mentioned export coal might be 7 million or 8 million tons this year.
Does that still seem reasonable and could you add any color to that smaller part of the franchise? Sure.
Eric? Last year we had about 7.6 million tons of export which I think was a record.
We might have a couple of points higher than that.
We might end up at 7.8 million this year.
Frankly the export market was somewhat disappointing this year given some of the economic difficulties particularly in Europe less so in Asia.
We do expect that as the world economy grows that the export market should strengthen and there will be upside to that.
But this year it'll be a little higher call it around 8 million tons averaging up.
Research Division</strong> Eric is that exporting through Houston to Europe? Is that right? We have exports from our network going to the Gulf and we also have exports going off the West Coast to Asia.
Research Division</strong> And then switching subjects to PTC I guess as PTC spend is becoming more fully implemented and larger do you at this point as you're getting close to this large spend this year foresee any economic benefit from this? Lance? Sure.
The short answer is no.
So just a level set for everybody PTC is an overlay system that sits on top of what we already have.
It only is designed to do 4 things all of essentially stopping trains in the -- prior to an incident.
There is no productivity benefit to that.
As a matter of fact we're managing the project very aggressively so we don't get hit by productivity hit because the only thing that could happen is if the system isn't working well it could reduce our effective capacity.
So we're working very hard not to let that happen.
Our final question this morning is coming from the line of David Vernon with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I think you mentioned that the third quarter guidance for Ag volume will be down slightly.
And I guess what I was just trying to get some help figuring out how if we get the crop that we planted for that volume could recover kind of as we move into 2014.
Eric? The crops really impact the fourth quarter.
The harvest really doesn't start until late in the third quarter late September.
So it's really crops coming in as a fourth quarter impact.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the majority of the recovery there should start sort of end -- sort of mid-fourth quarter? Yes that would be our expectation David.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one last quick one.
With the mix of export moves that you have relative to utility do you have a sense for the average length of haul between those 2 chunks? I know the total Coal business is in the 960 970 range.
I was just really trying to figure out if export is longer-haul or shorter-haul than your average utility move.
[indiscernible] down to Houston will be about the same and then be a little longer than California but I don't think it's going to be a big issue.
Tonnage is so small.
It's just...
Yes.
It's just a small tonnage.
I don't think it's going to move any of our numbers.
Mr.
Koraleski I'll turn the floor back to you for closing comments.
Great.
Thank you so much for joining us on the call today.
We're looking forward to speaking with you again in October.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
Welcome to the Union Pacific Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Jack Koraleski CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you Mr.
Koraleski you may now begin.
Thanks Rob and good morning everybody.
Welcome to Union Pacific's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With me today here in Omaha are Rob Knight our Chief Financial Officer; Eric Butler our Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; and Lance Fritz our Executive Vice President of Operations.
This morning we're pleased to announce that Union Pacific achieved an all-time record financial results this quarter.
We generated best-ever quarterly earnings of $2.48 per share an increase of 13% compared to the third quarter of 2012.
The quarter was not without its challenges including headwinds in coal and grain volumes and severe flooding in Colorado that caused network disruptions and shipment delays.
But at the end of the day that's all part of running a railroad.
We managed our network efficiently overcoming these challenges and continued to benefit from the strength of our diverse franchise.
When combined with real core pricing and productivity gains we more than offset the flat volumes to generate a new best-ever quarterly operating ratio of 64.8%.
We feel very good about our accomplishments this quarter.
We're leveraging our capital investments to strengthen the UP franchise and further enhance our value proposition in the marketplace.
We remain focused on delivering safe efficient high-quality service that generates value for our customers and increased financial returns for our shareholders.
So with that let's get started this morning.
I'll turn it over to Eric.
Thanks Jack and good morning.
In the third quarter the value and diversity of our franchise allowed volume to finish flat compared to last year despite volume declines in 3 of the business groups.
Industrial Products Automotive and Chemicals led the way with growth.
Offsetting that good news were declines in Intermodal Ag and Coal.
Core pricing gains of 3.5% which combined with a modest benefit from positive mix produced a 5% improvement in average revenue per car.
The combination of flat volume and improved average revenue per car pushed freight revenue to a record $5.2 billion.
Let's take a closer look at each of the 6 business groups.
Ag Products revenue declined 2% with third quarter volume down 4% and a 2% improvement in average revenue per car.
Grain carloadings continued to reflect the impact of last year's drought with third quarter volume down 9%.
Domestic feed grain shipments declined as tight U.S.
corn supply led to reductions in livestock feeding and increased reliance on local feed crops.
Export feed grains also declined with improved world supply and the higher U.S.
prices.
Partially offsetting these declines was an increase in weak Gulf exports primarily destined to Brazil.
Grain products volume was up 3% driven by an 11% increase in ethanol shipments as the discounts to gasoline led refineries to replenish low ethanol inventories.
Declines in import beer and barley led to a 4% decrease in food and refrigerated volume.
Automotive volume grew 8% which combined with the 9% improvement in average revenue per car produced a 17% increase in revenue.
Growth rates in auto production and sales remained strong in the third quarter driven by pent-up demand to replace aging vehicles.
Even so the average age of vehicles on the road continued to increase reaching 11.4 years with customers replacing them with new models offering improved technology and fuel efficiency.
UP finished vehicles shipments grew 5% and sales continued to grow with seasonally adjusted annual sales rate reaching $15.7 million in the third quarter the highest quarterly level in 5 years.
Parts volume increased 12% while pricing gains in the previously announced Pacer network logistics management arrangement increased average revenue per car.
Turning now to Coal.
You can see from the chart of weekly carloadings that volumes picked up from the second quarter as expected but tracked 7% below last year.
Core pricing gains and favorable mix led to a 10% improvement in average revenue per car and produced a 2% increase in revenue.
Tonnage from the Southern Powder River Basin decreased 8% as mild summer weather led to a 3% reduction in year-over-year electricity generation in UP-served territories.
Also contributing to the decline was the continued impact of a contract loss from the beginning of the year.
Colorado/Utah tonnage declined 17% as soft domestic demand and mine production issues offset growth in West Coast exports.
Also hampering loadings in the third quarter was the September Colorado floods.
Providing some good news tonnage from other coal-producing regions increased 19% from a relatively small base driven by gains from Southern Wyoming and Illinois loadings.
Before we move on note this slide shows a steep decline early in the fourth quarter as volumes were impacted by nearly 3 feet of unseasonably early snow in the Powder River Basin during the first week in October.
This has impacted volumes through the first half of the month but we expect the majority of shipments be made up throughout the remainder of the fourth quarter.
In Industrial Products a 9% increase in volume and 2% improvement in average revenue per car despite unfavorable mix produced revenue growth of 11%.
Nonmetallic minerals volume was up 21% as continued growth in shale-related drilling increased frac sand shipments by 27%.
Our construction-related volumes grew 11% driven by an 11% improvement in rock shipments with increased construction activity mostly in the Texas and California markets which also contributed to 12% growth in cement volume.
Metals volume was up 8% as pipeline projects picked up following a slow start to the year.
We also saw an increase in export iron ore shipments with the resolution of mine production issues that limited shipments last year.
Growth in housing and home improvements continued to increase the demand for lumber with shipments up 6%.
Although the housing market continue to strengthen lumber's growth eased early in the third quarter as falling lumber prices and excess inventory slowed lumber shipments.
Offsetting some of the strength in other Industrial Products market was a 4% decline in government and waste volume.
As in previous quarters reduced government funding limited military shipments and delays to extending the federal production tax credit led to a decline in win moves.
Intermodal revenue was flat as a 2% increase in average revenue per unit offset a 1% decline in volume.
With the economic recovery continuing its slow pace retailers proceeded cautiously in the third quarter.
Our international Intermodal volumes declined 5% due to market share shifts within the ocean carrier industry and increased port transloading activity.
Continued success converting highway business to rail drove 4% growth in domestic Intermodal.
Chemicals revenue grew 5% reflecting a 3% increase in volume and a 2% increase in average revenue per car.
Industrial Chemicals volume was up 9% driven by strength in end-user markets such as housing and automotive.
Increased demand in new business led to a 10% increase in petroleum products volume.
Dampening the good news was a 5% decline in crude oil volume compared to the third quarter of last year although crude oil shipments to St.
James Louisiana continued to grow compared to 2012.
Before we move on to our outlook for the fourth quarter I'd like to give a brief update on our Crude-by-Rail business which accounts for about 40% of our shale-related volume and about 2% of our overall volume.
As we said we've been expecting our 2013 crude oil volumes to increase at a moderate pace year-over-year though not with the dramatic ramp-up seen in the year before particularly given the lack of significant destination capacity expansion this year.
As you can see in the blue portion of the bar chart so far this year we've seen the benefit of very steady demand into St.
James Louisiana which continued to be a premier rail destination.
Additional opportunities have come from other areas such as West Texas and Oklahoma and these volumes in particular has been somewhat more volatile as the domestic crude oil market continues to evolve and reflect the dynamics inherent in the commodity marketplace.
As you know pricing spreads are one of the influences on traffic flows as producers look to maximize netbacks.
With the narrowing of the WTI discount to Brent we've seen a resulting volume decrease into areas with readily available pipeline access primarily Texas and Oklahoma which also have been impacted by increased pipeline capacity.
We've also seen a small decline in shipments from the Bakken to Texas as tighter spreads have made it more attractive to ship Bakken crude oil to the East where new facilities have increased crude-by-rail capacity.
Going forward we expect the economics of crude oil spreads to continue to be a driver of traffic flows particularly in areas such as Texas.
Other markets such as Canadian crude should provide new opportunities as Crude-by-Rail continues to evolve.
Meanwhile our franchise strength in the South will continue to provide a solid foundation to our business giving customers attractive access to important Gulf destinations.
While crude oil volumes will always be subject to the ups and downs of market spreads we believe the long-term fundamentals of Crude-by-Rail remain attractive.
Increasing crude production limited pipeline infrastructure and the flexibility rail provides will enable us to leverage our value proposition and develop new unique opportunities ahead.
Let me close with what we see for the fourth quarter.
Our current outlook is for the economy to continue its slow improvement although there is uncertainty in the marketplace.
No matter what the economy does we'll continue to focus on strengthening our value proposition attracting new customers and supporting our existing customers as they work to grow their business.
Given that here's what we see across our business for the next few months both the challenges and the opportunities.
With the effects of last year's drought behind us an improved fall harvest is expected to provide opportunity for Ag growth.
Global Insight raised their full year light vehicle sales estimate to 15.5 million vehicles which is good news for our Automotive business.
Crude oil spreads will continue to impact our Crude-by-Rail volumes but strength in other Chemicals markets is expected to drive the solid performance we've seen throughout the year.
With the challenges previously mentioned in our Coal business we now expect full year volumes to be down in the high single-digit range which includes the lost contract of about 5% of our Coal volumes.
Industrial Products should continue to benefit from shale-related growth with increased drilling activity that supports frac sand and pipeline projects.
An improving housing market is expected to drive demand for lumber shipments and growth in construction is expected to support increases in rock metals and other related markets.
International Intermodal volume is expected to be down slightly compared to last year while highway conversions will continue to drive domestic Intermodal growth.
For the full year our strong value proposition and diverse franchise will again support business development opportunities across our broad portfolio of business.
Assuming the economy does not slow down we're well on track to deliver profitable revenue growth again this year.
With that I'll turn it over to Lance.
Thank you Eric and good morning.
Starting with safety year-to-date results nearly matched our 2012 record results on the strength of a record-low third quarter reportable personal injury rate.
I expect our total safety culture risk identification and mitigation process and robust training programs to drive continued improvement as we go forward.
Our ultimate focus is making sure every one of our 50 000 employees returns home safely at the end of each day.
Rail equipment incidents or derailments improved 3% year-to-date versus 2012.
This is a direct reflection of the investments we've made to harden our infrastructure and to leverage advanced defect detection technology which combined have reduced track and equipment-induced derailments.
We are also making progress on human factor incidents through enhanced skills training and root cause resolutions.
Moving to public safety our year-to-date grade-crossing incident rate improved 7% versus 2012 reflecting our continued focus on improving or closing high-risk crossings and reinforcing public awareness.
We achieved year-over-year improvement in 5 of the last 6 months including a record third quarter rate.
Our focus on grade-crossing risk in the South has generated an 18% year-to-date improvement in that region.
Our safety strategy helps keep our network strong and resilient.
And as a result our network remains fluid and is operating at very efficient levels.
Velocity in the third quarter improved 1% compared to 2012 and improved 2% sequentially from the second quarter despite flooding that severed numerous corridors in Colorado.
We rerouted traffic and developed contingency plans during the event to support our affected customers and rapidly restored service on the lines that were washed out.
Our agility in the face of these outages prevented any year-over-year deterioration in our Service Delivery Index.
The measure which gauges how well we are meeting overall customer commitments improved sequentially from the second quarter and would've improved year-over-year if not for tighter service commitments to our customers.
We continued to provide outstanding local service to our customers with a best-ever 96% Industry Spot &amp; Pull which measures the delivery or pulling of a car to or from a customer.
Infrastructure investments and process efficiencies have improved our ability to recover after incidents reducing their impact on the network.
We continue to invest in capacity across our network most notably in the South where volumes are growing across our diverse portfolio.
Overall our network remains well positioned to handle volume growth.
Moving on to network productivity.
Slow order miles declined 38% to a best-ever third quarter level.
As a result our network is in excellent shape reflecting the investment in replacement capital that has hardened our infrastructure and reduced service failures.
We continue to identify and realize efficiencies that contributed to our record 64.8% operating ratio this quarter.
Locomotive productivity as defined by gross ton miles per horsepower day improved 1%.
Network planning and improved locomotive reliability drove this improvement in spite of a 2.5- to 3-percentage-point headwind associated with the mix shift from lower coal shipments and higher manifest shipments.
During the quarter we continued to reposition resources to align with the traffic mix trend of growing southern region and manifest volumes which require additional manpower versus the average of the network.
The chart on the lower right demonstrates our ability to leverage growing manifest volumes through UP's extensive terminal infrastructure.
We switched 1.5% more cars while keeping yard and local employee days flat.
This resulted in an all-time quarterly record in terminal productivity.
The improvement was particularly evident in our southern region where car switch per employee day was up 3%.
These results reflect employee engagement which is an important part of our operating strategy.
Our employees are bringing their expertise to bear on improving safety service and efficiency by standardizing work and reducing variability.
To recap our operating performance in the third quarter was solid improving nicely from second quarter levels.
We remain vigilant in our commitment to operate a safer and more efficient railroad for the benefit of our employees customers the public and shareholders.
We've demonstrated the ability to successfully flex network resources in response to dynamic market shifts and unexpected events including weather.
As I touched on last quarter we've successfully completed a number of significant capital track programs both on the replacement and capacity side.
Overall these projects were completed with minimal network disruptions and resulted in measurable enhancements to our franchise.
We will continue to make smart capital investments that generate attractive returns and that keep the network fluid and safe.
With strong network fundamentals we are well positioned for future growth while enhancing UP's value proposition.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
Let's start with a recap of our third quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 4% to an all-time quarterly record of nearly $5.6 billion driven mainly by solid core pricing gains.
Operating expense totaled $3.6 billion increasing 1.5%.
Operating income grew 10% to $1.96 billion also hitting a best-ever quarterly mark.
Below the line other income totaled $28 million basically flat with 2012.
For the full year we would expect other income to be in the $110 million to $120 million range barring any unusual adjustments.
Interest expense of $138 million was up 1% from last year.
However it includes about $7 million of net onetime costs associated with our recent debt exchange.
Income tax expense increased to $701 million driven by higher pretax earnings.
Net income grew 10% versus 2012 while the outstanding share balance declined 2% as a result of our continued share repurchase activity.
These results combined to produce a best-ever quarterly earnings of $2.48 per share up 13% versus 2012.
Turning to our top line.
Freight revenue grew 4.6% to more than $5.2 billion driven by solid core pricing gains of 3.5% and favorable mix of a little more than a point.
A decline in lower average revenue per car Intermodal shipments combined with freight revenue impact from the Pacer arrangement drove the positive mix.
But these items were partially offset by double-digit growth in rock shipments which typically move less than 200 miles and a decline in longer haul grain moves.
Moving on to the expense side.
Slide 21 provides a summary of our compensation and benefits expense which was up 1% compared to 2012.
Inflationary pressures and higher training costs drove the increase largely offset by productivity gains.
Workforce levels increased 1% in the quarter.
About half of the increase was driven by more individuals in the training pipeline and the other half was due to capital projects including positive train control activity.
When you think ahead to the fourth quarter remember that we saw the benefit of a onetime $20 million payroll tax refund that is reflected in last year's fourth quarter comp and benefits expense.
Turning to the next slide.
Fuel expense totaled $866 million decreasing 2% versus 2012 primarily driven by lower average diesel fuel price.
In addition gross ton miles declined 2% due to lower coal and grain shipments.
This mix impact also contributed to the 1% increase in our fuel consumption rate compared to 2012.
Moving on to our other expense categories.
Purchased services and materials expense increased 8% to $588 million due to higher locomotive and freight car contract repair expenses and joint facility maintenance expense.
And we're incurring logistics management fees associated with the 2012 Pacer agreement which are recouped in our Automotive freight revenue line.
Depreciation expense was $447 million basically flat compared to last year.
The impact of increased capital spending in recent years was offset by a new equipment rate study that went into effect at the beginning of this year.
Looking at the full year we expect depreciation to be up about 1% versus 2012 slightly lower than our previous projections.
However for 2014 full year depreciation expense should increase at a more normalized rate more likely in the 5% to 7% range.
Slide 24 summarizes the remaining 2 expense categories.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $309 million up 3% compared to 2012.
Increased container expenses associated with the Pacer contract and growth in Automotive shipments drove higher freight car rental expense.
Other expenses came in at $205 million up $5 million versus last year.
Higher property taxes and freight damage costs drove expenses up compared to 2012.
A moderate reduction in personal injury expense and effective cost-control measures partially offset these increases.
For the fourth quarter we would expect that other expense line to be more in the neighborhood of $215 million excluding any unusual items.
Turning to our operating ratio performance.
We achieved an all-time best operating ratio of 64.8% this quarter improving 1.8 points compared to last year.
Our performance highlights the positive impact of solid core pricing gains and network efficiencies despite flat volumes.
Through the first 9 months of this year we generated an operating ratio of 66.5% improving 1.5 points from 2012 clearly illustrating the strength and value proposition of the Union Pacific franchise.
Union Pacific's record year-to-date earnings drove strong cash from operations of nearly $4.9 billion up 12% compared to 2012.
Free cash flow of $1.3 billion reflects the growing profitability of the franchise and includes a 13% increase in cash dividend payments versus 2012.
Our balance sheet remained strong supporting our investment-grade credit rating.
At quarter end our adjusted debt-to-cap ratio was roughly 39% which includes the impact of adding over $450 million to our balance sheet debt since year-end 2012.
Opportunistic share repurchases continue to play an important role in our balanced approach to cash allocation.
In the third quarter we bought back nearly 3.7 million shares totaling $575 million.
Year-to-date we've purchased more than 9.6 million shares totaling over $1.4 billion already matching our full year spend from last year.
Looking ahead we have around 5.4 million shares remaining under our current authorization program which expires March 31 2014.
So that's a recap of our third quarter results.
As we move through the rest of the year we're mindful of the economic uncertainty in the marketplace.
For the fourth quarter we expect to see modest volume growth mainly driven by improved grain shipments.
Assuming the economy doesn't slow down for the rest of the year we would also expect to see continued growth in other market sectors.
Given the flat volumes in the third quarter it's unlikely that our full year volumes will be positive even with our modest growth assumptions in the fourth quarter.
However we will have to see how the rest of the year plays out.
In addition we should see solid core pricing gains roughly similar to the third quarter results.
All in the fourth quarter should round out another record financial year for Union Pacific.
Now let's take a preliminary look at next year realizing that it's still very early.
From where we sit today we're expecting modest volume growth if the economy continues along a slow growth trajectory.
We think there will be some markets that will be stronger than others.
We should see strength in grain shipments.
And if the economy holds there should be positive growth in other business sectors.
Mexico-related traffic should also generate volume gains for us next year.
Our Coal business is a little more difficult to predict but we can tell you that we retained and renewed roughly 50% of next year's $100 million legacy business.
The lost legacy business which is currently not moving at re-investable levels will create about a 2% headwind on our Coal volumes in 2014.
But as always weather and the economy will be the driving factors for our Coal business next year.
Although 2014 is a legacy-light year we'll continue to generate real core pricing gains.
However we don't expect to match 2013's levels which as you know include about 1.5 of legacy repricing that won't repeat next year.
In addition inflation-related escalators are expected to be lower next year including those used to calculate the A-lift cost escalator.
At the end of the day our fundamental strategy and focus on pricing for returns has not changed.
While we won't see a legacy benefit next year and inflation escalators are expected to be modestly lower pricing on the rest of our business in 2014 remains strong.
When you add it all up we expect to achieve core pricing above inflation next year.
Overall we're forecasting another record financial year in 2014 if the economy cooperates.
In addition to our pricing initiatives ongoing productivity gains and volume leverage opportunities should help drive continued margin improvement.
We feel very good about our outlook going forward.
The fundamentals are strong supported by a diverse franchise that allows us to pursue new attractive market opportunities.
We'll continue to move the ball forward focusing on improved returns to support capital investments that will strengthen and enhance our network create value for our customers and drive increased returns for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it back to Jack.
Okay.
Thanks Rob.
Well as Eric mentioned we've had a bit of a tough start here to the fourth quarter with the early blizzard slowing Coal volumes out of the Powder River Basin.
But the good news is there's still a lot of quarter ahead of us.
And as we did in the third quarter we'll manage through the obstacles to ensure our customer commitments are met and our network is protected.
More broadly we continue to monitor the economic landscape and the ongoing saga in Washington.
But supported by our diverse franchise we remain agile and well positioned for economic recovery.
The 50 000 men and women of Union Pacific stand ready to leverage the opportunities while navigating through the challenges.
We'll continue focusing on re-investable pricing attracting new profitable growth opportunities and running a safe efficient and reliable network that generates greater value for both our customers and shareholders going forward.
So with that let's open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Tom Wadewitz of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to kind of -- I guess a broad framework that seems to be shaping up for 2014 is that there are pretty good reasons to think that your volume growth may be a bit stronger obviously grain maybe coal is less of a headwind hopefully the economy but you're going to get the slower pace of pricing gains less legacy contract.
So how would you frame the results of that in terms of margin improvement? Do you end up with a kind of a similar framework for margin expansion opportunity? Is it more challenging if it's kind of more volume and less price? How do you think about margin opportunity in 2014? Tom I think overall we're in a good position.
We've not varied at all from our guidance that says we're going to get to an operating ratio of sub-65%.
So it'll be a little more difficult.
I'll let Rob give you some technicolor here.
Yes.
Tom I would just add to Jack's point I mean it's moving the ball forward.
As you know volume is always our friend because we're able to leverage that from a productivity standpoint.
But you're right without the benefit of the legacy repricing we expect to continue to move the ball forward.
And that's going to be continued focus on providing good service leveraging volume where we can to squeeze out additional productivity initiatives and continue to fairly price the business.
You add all that up we continue -- we expect to continue to make progress on our overall margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then a follow-up on Coal.
I know it's probably really challenging to have much visibility in Coal.
But are there any I guess parameters that we should consider that you would consider stockpile levels? Any activity you're seeing in the East plant shutdowns? How would you put things together in terms of is it more likely your coal tonnage is up in 2014 or is it more realistic to expect it down? Just a little more detail on framing Coal if you can.
Sure.
I think overall Tom if you look at energy and the Coal business the 2 biggest factors are always going to be energy consumption how much electricity is generated and what the weather is going to be like.
We've seen the stockpile levels on a national basis come down a bit.
But you always have to be careful because even within that mix of business you have some that are a little higher some that are little lower.
Eric you want to put some technicolor around that? I think that's exactly right.
Stockpiles have come down.
They're about 20 days below where they were last year and actually a couple of days below what would be considered historical norms.
So what Jack said is exactly correct.
It -- factors are what's the electrical consumption generation what's weather.
Those are always going to be the key factors.
Our next question is from the line of Allison Landry of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on Tom's question a little bit but more with regards to rail inflation in 2014.
So if we're assuming this year inflation was around 2.5% to 3% is it fair to think about next year being closer to 2% to 2.5%? Rob? Yes Allison.
We would -- at this point in time and of course things can change we would expect that inflation looks like it's going to be more around all-in 2%-ish.
Research Division</strong> 2%-ish? Okay great.
And then just as a follow-up question on the Crude-by-Rail and looking towards next year.
Without getting too granular I was wondering if you could maybe comment on some volume growth that you see that is less spread dependent and also within the context of new origination terminals that you have coming online in the Niobrara and some new destination terminals in Louisiana and Texas that are UP-served.
Sure.
Eric you want to do the rundown on what we're looking at for 2014? Yes.
So we still believe we'll see moderate growth in 2014.
As we indicated in our comments it's dependent upon a lot of market dynamics including the spreads the timing of additional capacity production levels overall demand.
We're still very optimistic as we look at destination opportunities in California.
Those destinations are still coming online.
Some of them had long lead times just getting through the normal construction process that you typically go through in that region of the country.
But again kind of the normal vagaries of market dynamics will drive kind of what happens next year.
Our next question is from the line of Scott Group of Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> I want to just follow up on Rob your comment around pricing for next year and understanding that it's legacy light.
But when we think about 3.5% pricing that you got in third quarter would -- how much legacy do you think in third quarter you actually got? Because I'm guessing with Coal that was down.
You didn't get a full 1.5 from that.
I just want to get maybe kind of what the base is tracking right now x legacy.
And then maybe if you can give any color on how you think mix could help or hurt next year with grain coming back and maybe some of the other moving parts when we think about overall yields next year.
Yes Scott.
In the third quarter our reported 3.5% price included call it roughly 1.5 points of legacy.
But to your point the 3.5% did not include probably less than 0.5 point of coal repriced business because the coal didn't move.
So kind of do the math on that.
As you look forward in 2014 yes it's a legacy-light year and yes mix will play a part.
I mean if the volume of business that we've repriced whether it be in coal or grain if it happens to move before we've lapped the renewal of a contract then we should see the benefit of the price on our price calculation.
But as I always point out if the business moves after we've lapped the repricing while it may not show up in our core pricing number that we report it will show up in our margin.
So it's a net benefit to us clearly.
So I guess I'll just summarize by saying that we head into 2014 as optimistic as ever on our ability to price but we just won't have that benefit of that call it 1.5% legacy charge.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then this other question for you Rob on the balance sheet.
So you mentioned that you were going to need to reauthorize share repurchase next year.
If I look you guys are at about a full turn less of leverage than the other -- most of the other rails and your returns are better than average for sure.
Do you think that there's an opportunity now that we're through legacy and we need some other parts to the story that -- is there an opportunity to more aggressively take on some leverage and more aggressively buy back stock? Scott as you know we always take a balanced approach.
And as I've said many times we're comfortable in the range we are right now on our net debt-to-cap ratio.
I mean it's not how we manage the business but that's kind of a guiding light.
So we'd always take a look at it but that has served us well to be in that range.
And in terms of will we look at more or less we're going to continue to be -- hope to be -- continue to be optimistic in terms of our share repurchase.
We did this year as you know buy at a higher rate of share buyback this year than we did last year so we have been ramping that up.
And I think that speaks to sort of our thought process.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Hoexter of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> If I can hit Eric up I guess a bit on Intermodal.
Looking at domestic is this the kind of run rate here the low single digits on the domestic side on the highway adoptions? And then internationally you noted some losses.
When do your grandfather that? And should we see growth going forward in the fourth quarter into next year? When do you start looking at kind of the environment on the international side as well? Let me start with the international.
The international what I mentioned was some market share shifts amongst the steamship carriers.
And so that -- as you know there's excess steamship capacity and there's natural shifts that are going on amongst them.
And as the bid seasons happen every year those shifts will happen in the steamship arena outside of the rail arena.
In terms of the domestic Intermodal side the 4% we're proud of but we think there's upside.
We think there's still a large over-the-road truck market out there for us to convert.
We think we have the right products.
We have the right strategies.
We're investing in our franchise.
We've talked publicly about our new facility outside of El Paso Texas that will be coming online next year.
We think that that will help us penetrate significantly the maquiladora market there around El Paso and also allow us to put some new products and services in place.
So we are excited about the upside for continued domestic over-the-road conversions.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could just get a follow-up I guess with Rob on the productivity side.
And as you look toward maybe a little bit less coming from yields and maybe more of that from -- coming from productivity do you still seeing accelerating opportunities to continue to gain on the productivity side? How do you look at that opportunity? Yes.
I mean Ken we never run out of opportunities to squeeze out productivity.
And Lance and his team are continually looking at the mix shifts that take place in the business.
And we challenge ourselves and you've heard me say this many times to offset 100% of inflation with productivity.
If we get half offset half of inflation with productivity we're doing pretty well.
And our track record has spoken very strongly I think in doing so even without the benefit of volume.
So if we get positive volumes that certainly will help.
So we'll continue to look for every opportunity we can.
Our next question comes from the line of Justin Yagerman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to get a sense I mean as we enter into this kind of post-legacy year for you guys how your average book is structured right now with your customers and kind of what the pace of contract renewal is going to look like on a go-forward basis and how we should expect that that gets attacked.
So as I look out over the next 5 years what piece of your overall book do you think comes up and what's the average tenure of the contracts that you've been re-signing? Eric? Justin I'm not quite sure quite what you're asking.
We've talked historically in the past that at any one given time about 70% of our contracts or our prices are kind of locked in for the next year.
As we go into the future there's a natural evolution of pace of things that come up as you go through different markets.
And we're as Rob said and I think as Jack said we continue to be excited about the value of our franchise and the value proposition that we sell and the ability to get price as we go forward on...
But as we -- as Eric -- I think what he's kind of talking about is and Justin chime in here buddy about 40% typically 40% to 45% of our business is tied up in multiyear contracts.
But in our current world 3 to 5 years is probably the timeframe of those.
About 1/3 of the business or 30% is tied up in 1 year like letter quotes and deals and then the other 30% is roughly tariff that we have 20 days notice in terms of changing price.
So at any one point in time we have our business constantly being evaluated and looking for market opportunities where we can take advantage of price increases.
Research Division</strong> That was exactly what I was looking to get at so thanks for the clarification Jack.
And as I think about the guidance here looking out to 2017 I was just Rob wanting to get an idea.
Obviously volume's been more challenged in the near term because of coal.
But as I look out to 2015 and beyond there's some expected positives on the Chem side of your business specifically on petrochem I would think.
So I wanted to get a sense as you guys think about mix within that long-term guidance what type of volume CAGR you think you need to have cognizant of what we just talked about in terms of the pace of pricing going forward and that being more of kind of an inflation plus as opposed to having that bump from the 1.5 points of legacy that we're seeing right now? Yes Justin this is Rob.
The guidance it's just a reset.
The guidance on the operating ratio is to -- by full year 2017 to achieve a sub-full year 65% operating ratio.
And volume is our friend.
And when we give that sort of guidance we're assuming that the economy will cooperate that volumes will be on the positive side of the ledger if you will.
But we know that we can't predict precisely exactly what the mix is going to look like.
So we're going to have to deal with the hand that the economy plays us between now and then.
And we're confident that if the economy cooperates that the mix will enable us to achieve that target.
But as I've said all along each measure each metric we've given as we've been working down from the mid-80s operating ratio years ago we're going to get there as soon as we can as efficiently as we can.
We're not going to stop so the sub-65% is not an end game.
It's just the next rung on the ladder if you will and we'll get there as efficiently leveraging volume if we can leveraging productivity and leveraging strong price.
Research Division</strong> But -- okay.
So you're seeing volume growth that's sub-GDP right now across your franchise and still being able to leverage that into margin improvement which is something you guys have been able to do do you think you can do even as we start to see more legacy wear off? Yes.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe following up on the longer-term OR guidance.
As you think out -- I think you have a few years now left to hit a target which is a few hundred or a couple hundred basis points away from sort of the run rate that you're at right now.
So when you think about the setup is there anything that we should be thinking about absent mix that would be preventing kind of the continued progress that you've been making steadily over the last couple of years? Obviously legacy comes into all of that.
But I just want to make sure from an operational perspective are there any other challenges we may need to think about? It strikes me as being a bit on the conservative side which is good but I just kind of want to get a sense if there's something I'm missing in there on that guidance.
I think overall Chris when you look at it we look at it from the perspective that we're going to achieve those goals we're going to achieve them despite whatever hand we're dealt in terms of the economic activity.
That's the commitment we're making.
But you can never say never in terms of what happens if you have another 2008 what happens if the Washington situation melts down and consumer confidence wanes and we kind of do a double-dip here.
We're not looking forward to that.
But I think the thing that you can feel good about is if you go back and you look at our results and you look at our track record when those things happen we marshal very effectively we deal with it and we move on.
So I don't know Rob do you have any other kind of like big onetime things or things -- I mean we've got productivity gains that we are absolutely focused on Lance and his team.
Rob always uses the term squeeze.
I actually think of it more positively than just a squeeze.
We have a lot of people working hard to do things better to drive bottom line results and you see that reflected in our 64.8% operating ratio.
Eric and his team are very effectively deploying business development strategies and taking advantage of price opportunities in the markets where we have the opportunity to go above and beyond what would be considered inflationary and that's good for us.
So everybody's kind of focused on that.
Rob? Yes -- no you're exactly right.
Now clearly going from a mid-80s to a mid-60s rate of improvement is one slope.
Going from where we are today to sub-65% the slope of the line is different but the tenets of how we get there are unchanged.
Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
That makes sense.
That's helpful.
And then when you think about the capital spending side of it in context of that target and sort of the slope of the line as you say over the course of the next couple of years I think you updated us with guidance last year around this time for how we should be thinking about CapEx.
Anything you need to change as you think about that as you're further into that? Obviously PTC is still in the picture and probably will be for at least a few years to come.
But just kind of curious your thoughts around that for '14 and beyond.
We're watching our capital spending very closely.
Our -- we had reduced our 17% to 18% to 16% to 17%.
Clearly that implies we're going to see some volume growth.
If we don't see the volume growth we'll be paring back capital.
We'll be making the right decisions from a return perspective as we see the needs across our network.
PTC is still in there.
At some point in time we may or may not change those numbers.
But at least right now we're comfortable with the 16% to 17% kind of number we put out there last year.
Our next question is from the line of Brandon Oglenski with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to the pricing discussion.
In the past you guys have been pretty successful at getting rate up to re-investable levels.
Is there any way to quantify for us today what percentage of the business or in broad strokes that remains at -- on investable rates that has a lot of pricing upside in the future? Rob why don't you take a shot at that? Yes.
Brandon I know what you're asking and it's just not a number we provide other than to say that we're confident across our entire book of business there are opportunities for us to price to market and make sure that we are at the re-investable level.
So that's as detailed as we get on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe a follow-up for Eric.
When we look at grain dynamics heading into 2014 what's the mix looking like right now from a domestic grain perspective or an export perspective or even ethanol? And how's that going to impact mix and revenue and volume for you going forward? So as you know with the drought and high U.S.
corn prices U.S.
grain on the world markets really took a hit just because we're a high price relative to what the other prices were in other growing markets around the world.
It looks as if -- and as you know the USDA website has been down for the last several weeks.
But the last public report looks as if this will be a near record year for corn production.
And so I think that will make U.S.
exports corn on the bean side and even wheat exports more competitive on world markets.
I think you should see some growth in export opportunities vis--vis this year as you go into next year.
Our next question is from the line of William Greene with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Rob and Jack you've always sort of described your longer-term OR guidance as a -- as not really a target and an ending point but things can go beyond that.
And I think something that we've all sort of struggled with over the years is thinking about kind of what structure of a network kind of limits how good margins can get.
When you look at the Union Pacific network and you see what you've been able to achieve over the last 5 to 7 years which in margin terms is kind of breathtaking is there anything about the network that makes you say yes it's going to be hard for us to ever achieve sort of record profitability relative to our peers in the industry? Is there anything about your network structurally that limits how good you can be? Man I can't think of anything.
Rob can you? Yes.
No Bill I mean there's no -- there's not like a mountain that's in our way that's not in other people's way.
I mean we all have the same challenges and there's -- it's a great theoretical question in terms of how low can you get and we get that question.
I mean a sub-65% is pretty good performance.
We think we can go below that while at the same time of course that's just a measure we use as shorthand if you will.
Because at the same time what we are very focused on of course is improving returns improving income driving larger cash et cetera.
So at end of the day that's what we're really focused on.
How low can the margins go? We'll see.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
Eric a follow-up for you on Intermodal.
Do you feel like the new hours of service rules so far have had any impact on your growth rate there or is this kind of something that'll take longer to show up? Yes.
Any impact right now has been negligible.
Certainly the truckers probably are seeing some impact on their expense lines.
But in terms of conversion rates to intermodal it's been negligible so far.
We do expect over the long term that it will drive more business to intermodal to the rails.
And as I mentioned before we still are pretty excited about the upside opportunity in terms of over-the-road conversions.
Our next question comes from the line of Walter Spracklin of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> My question I guess focus in on the weather impact that you had in Colorado and Denver and more kind of a theoretical one here.
When you see that kind of weather impact manifest itself and it may be that we're going into a period where -- in the future where these happen more often my question is do your clients -- do your customers say "Okay this is weather it's out of your control we won't let it damage too much our relationship " or are we seeing more and more customers saying "And it looks like you've been able to reroute quite well." Do you see that as a competitive advantage versus other railroads that might or might not be able to reroute as well due to whatever network constraints they have? In other words do you view that your rerouting capacity as a competitive advantage? And perhaps Lance you can answer that.
Maybe Eric in your customer conversations are they attaching more and more importance to that ability to reroute? Yes.
Walter I'll let Lance and Eric chime in here but let me just kind of from an overview perspective.
I think our team did a remarkable job of working with customers rerouting trains and ensuring that their freight moved to their marketplace as quickly and as efficiently as possible and doing it in a way that they knew we're working hard to keep them ahead of the trouble and out of harm's way.
And then to get the whole process back up and running again get the railroad back up and running in a record amount of time I think customers appreciate that.
We spend a lot of time talking to them about our strategy is basically to create value for them.
And we consider that a strategic advantage of ours in terms of being able to demonstrate what does value mean and this was a great time to do that.
And that's not to say we were perfect in all cases but I think our customers have given us high marks for that.
Lance or Eric you want to chime in on that? Yes Jack.
So we do talk about how our franchise is a wonderful thing and it showed through in how we reacted to what happened in Denver.
We had alternative routes that we could use and to Jack's point support our customers while they were going through some of the same issues.
So I think that's a great manifestation of the franchise strength basically.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you think it's better than your competitor? I won't speak to whether it's better than our competitor.
We focus on providing our customers outstanding service so they fall in love with Union Pacific and think of us first.
One of the things that Lance and Eric's team does that I love and I think the customers do as well is they do a postmortem on every one of these events and go back and say "What did we learn from this? What would we be prepared to do differently the next time the cards line up this way " so that we always learn we always -- the next time Mother Nature takes a swipe at us we're better prepared and more experienced in terms of how to deal with it and minimize any disruptive situations for our customers." LLC Research Division</strong> That makes a lot of sense.
My follow-up question I guess is on your Crude-by-Rail.
You mentioned St.
James seems to be showing a little bit more resiliency.
Other areas seem to be more impacted by the differential.
My question I guess is to what extent can your St.
James destinations be insulated from that differential? And perhaps talk a little bit about the difference as to why that is and what level does it need your St.
James and as they -- also be impacted by differentials.
Yes.
So we talked in the past about the reason for St.
James being such a premier rail destination and it's really the connectivity the pipeline connectivity the connectivity to multiple refiners the ability to do blending there.
And so it has become really a premier destination for crude light sweet crude going to the Gulf.
And we think that that resiliency will remain.
As you know the oil will move to where the market dictates based on spreads.
But we think that the factors we've historically talked about with St.
James makes it a premier destination and we will see that resiliency remain for the future.
Our next question is from the line of David Vernon of Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Eric maybe you could -- if you could give us a little more color on the legacy retention issues.
Are we done sort of settling up the legacy book for next year? Was the -- were the plants that did not get renewed did they just shut down or was it a share loss? And whether this was PRB or Rocky Mountain coal? Yes.
So as you know we don't really get into customer-specific negotiations or discussions other than what we said before.
We had about $100 million of legacy renewal.
We retained about half of those and the half we didn't retain was not at re-investable levels so.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But was some of the losses perhaps due to the plant just being shut down or was it -- or if you don't want to comment that's fine.
I'm just trying to understand the -- what was driving the loss.
Yes.
Our calculation of legacy does not include plants that are shut down.
There are lots of shutdowns going on in the East in terms of mine shutdowns.
But in terms of our serving territory there's not any measurable mine shutdowns that are occurring in our service territories at least not this year and not for the foreseeable future.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And maybe just as a quick follow-up how do you feel about the viability of the Colorado and Rocky Mountain coals that were moving east relative to the Illinois Basin kind of going forward? That's a good question.
First utilities that are looking to convert they can decide to convert to Illinois Basin or Colorado/Utah coal.
And there's a different sweet spot depending on the mechanical burn capability and the scrubber capability of the utilities and they have an economic profile that may drive them one place or the other.
We intend to participate in both markets.
We have service products in both markets.
We still see Colorado/Utah coal having a strong place in the marketplace particularly the export market.
And I think going forward the export market opportunities for Colorado/Utah are probably larger than even the Illinois Basin export coal opportunities.
Our next question is from the line of Anthony Gallo of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I thought I heard you mention that transloading was a bit of a headwind for Intermodal.
I was hoping you could expand on why that is.
And that doesn't look like a trend that's about to reverse so some color there please.
Yes.
As you know some of the BCOs are looking at landing product on the West Coast and transloading it into a domestic intermodal container as opposed to using the steamship container to move the product all the way inland.
That is a trend that appears to have ramped up in the last year or so.
And there are some benefits for some customers to do that.
There are some benefits for some customers to keep the steamship carrier what we call the IPI option to move all the way inland.
Our view of the world is we're going to participate in both markets and we're going to provide effective products and services no matter how the shipper decides to ship the product.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I'm hoping you can either confirm or deny the chatter we've heard from some of the IMCs that part of the issue with intermodal growth on your network is lack of access to equipment.
And I think they were talking specifically about chassis.
Can you put any detail behind that? Wow.
Eric? Yes.
I'm not -- I think it's just chatter.
We do not have a lack of access issue on our network.
I think it's just chatter.
Our next question is from the line of Justin Long of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> You touched briefly on the Santa Teresa Intermodal facility earlier and it sounds like that's still on track to open early next year.
But could you provide any details on the capacity of that facility and how we should think about the potential ramp in volumes in 2014 and beyond that? Yes.
So our investment in that facility is going to do a couple of things for us.
One as you know the El Paso Juarez area has huge maquiladora opportunities.
I think there's something like 250 customers that have manufacturing facilities in that region.
And today a large portion of that is moving by truck over the road.
We are capacity constrained in our current El Paso Intermodal facility to take advantage of that.
And so with the opening of this new facility we'll immediately be able to double our capacity but we're not limited by that.
We'll have the footprint to go beyond that as we have market opportunities.
Yes Justin.
The initial buildout should handle 250 000 lifts a year.
And we have plenty of space available to go way beyond that in addition to it being our new fueling facility.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And second question I was wondering how much visibility you have on the potential impact from the new automotive production that's coming online in Mexico the next couple of years.
Is that something that should be a meaningful tailwind as we head into next year or is it still too hard to tell how much that volume could move on your network at this time? So you're referring to kind of the large announced facilities by Nissan and Volkswagen those opening dates are beyond next year.
We along with the Mexican railroads both the FXE and the KCS we're working to develop service products and offerings so that we can get our fair share of participation in those.
But those facility operation -- I mean opening dates are beyond 2014.
If I could just add on that Justin because you've heard me say this many times no franchise matches the Union Pacific in and out of Mexico.
We're the only railroad that has the 6 border-crossing points.
And today we enjoy in excess of call it around 80% market share of all autos business in and out of Mexico.
While we haven't given a precise number of what the market share is going to look like after these plants go we feel very good about the franchise.
We have north of the border and the fact that we are the only rail the crosses those 6 border points that we will get our fair share of business that wants to move north and south.
Our next question is from the line of Cherilyn Radbourne of TD Securities.
It's been a long call so I'll just ask one.
I was just struck by the massive decrease you've had over the last couple of years in slow order miles.
And just wondered if you could elaborate a little bit on what's driving that and where else that shows up in your operational metrics and in the cost structure.
Did Lance pay you to ask that question? I love that question.
Yes.
Go for it buddy.
So Cherilyn it reflects our capital programs which are pretty sophisticated in trying to figure out where to spend the money and what to spend it on.
So you see us investing $1.6 billion $1.7 billion directly into track infrastructure renewal for about the last call it 6 or 7 years and that slow order mile decrease is a direct reflection of that appropriate investment.
And when you think about the impact it has it has an impact on every aspect of customer service.
Because those slow order miles are throughout the network and they basically have the network when they're present operating at a level that's below design.
And any improvement we make in slow orders generally speaking has a direct and immediate impact on the reliability of our service and the absolute magnitude of the service we can provide.
Our next question is from the line of Ben Hartford of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Eric a quick question on Intermodal.
Could you give us a sense of what you believe the discount to the product vis--vis a like-for-like truckload move would be today? Yes.
We've talked before that it's lane-dependent lane-specific.
But a 15% number is probably a reasonable number 15% to 20% in terms of the all-in cost of intermodal versus an equivalent over-the-road long-haul truck.
But again that's lane-dependent lane-specific.
Research Division</strong> Of course.
And when you talk about some of the optimism that comes from that network being able to even reaccelerate the 4% volume growth is it under the context of being able to continue to narrow that gap as well and accelerate volume growth? Or do you anticipate that differential to be constant and expect volume growth to potentially accelerate? How should we think about that? Yes.
So a couple of factors.
One the question was asked before about the hours in service so that is going to continue to have a cost impact on truckers.
So their prices are going to increase.
So we'll continue to grow our pricing even without narrowing the gap.
I do think that there are places where we can narrow that gap and still convert.
And fundamentally we've done some work and analysis that basically says there's still a pretty large untapped market of people who just haven't tried intermodal and haven't used it and so it's an ideal market sales opportunity for us to penetrate.
So there's lots of upside opportunities and we could get it.
Even by narrowing the gap we can still grow.
And we also have new service products that your team has been working on with Lance and his team in terms of providing great service some new market destinations and some originations.
And as the network continues to evolve and develop that's an opportunity for us as well.
Our next question is from the line of Jason Seidl of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two quick ones here.
When I look at Coal out into 2014 and look at the arc or the yields given that you've retained sort of 50% of that legacy business how should we look at how that arc's going to move? I mean were the 50% return retained longer length of haul about average? Rob? LLC Research Division</strong> Just trying to get a sense of the number that we're going to see all else being equal.
For planning purposes I'd look at it as an average but we're not going to give detailed arc projections for Coal.
And by the way it will be dependent upon mix.
I mean in terms what -- we're confident in our ability to continue to price our overall book of business.
We won't obviously have the legacy tailwind that we called out.
But the arc will move based on the mix of the coal traffic that actually moves so I can't give you a projection on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
But all I'm saying is that the mix that you retained that 50% that wasn't overall vastly different from your normalized mix? I'd call it in the normal range.
LLC Research Division</strong> In the normal range.
Okay great.
And just a quick follow-up question on Intermodal.
I hear you guys on -- in terms of the hours of service and truckload rates eventually have to go up.
But we've been waiting for that for a while and we haven't really seen much progress on that.
Sort of how do you look at sort of gaining market share off the highway if we're still stuck in this sort of very muted truckload pricing environment? Yes.
So again hours of service just went into effect on July 1.
So that's why when I answered earlier about negligible impacts it really is just recent.
If you look at what we've said before we are putting in place lots of products new offerings.
There's an opportunity to sell what -- what we've seen is large shippers really have a great understanding of the intermodal value proposition and they're heavy users of the intermodal value proposition.
There's some market segmentation opportunities for the other guys other than the Walmarts or Targets of the world.
And that's why I think we continue to be very optimistic about the ability to penetrate intermodal get growth and get price.
Our next question is from the line of Keith Schoonmaker of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I think a couple of us have hinted at the -- how conservative it seems the sub-65% goal by 2017.
And I mean no insult because you guys have identified conservative goals in the past and hit them again and again.
But are there are couple of threats? What would be the top couple of threats that could disrupt this progress? I think when you just step back and look at it certainly what we just went through in Washington D.C.
and the fact that it wasn't really a resolve it was just moved ahead is still out there and it's very concerning for us given that 70% of the economy is driven by consumer spending.
And so anything that would cause the housing market to go back down for people to stop buying cars those have all been big benefits to us in the recovery piece of that.
And that's a concern for us.
I don't know of any other quite honestly.
Rob? I would just add to that.
I mean you're right.
And you're also right that we're not going to stop at that and get there as efficiently as we can.
But the things that can impact you clearly in addition to the economy that Jack points out would be the fuel price.
Just the math of the operating ratio performance is heavily -- can be heavily impacted by fuel.
But beyond that it's sort of business as usual if you will in terms of the tenets of what are going to get us from here to there.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like you identify fuel price and consumer spending are a couple of principal ones and maybe legislation.
But I noticed that you didn't mention sort of regulatory environment is that less of a threat than might previously have been discussed? Well you never say never because there are a number of pieces of legislation that we're watching either legislation or from the Surface Transportation Board.
But we work very hard to make sure that we're telling our story clearly that we're creating value for customers that we're investing heavily in our network and infrastructure.
And anything that gets done on the regulatory front we've been very clear that if it caps our ability to generate a return for our shareholders it's going to curtail capital spending and investment.
Nobody really wants to see that happening.
And most people in Washington want to see more jobs and growth.
So I never want to say we're not concerned about it but we're working it as hard as we can to ensure that that's not a major issue for us.
Our next question is from the line of Jeff Kauffman of Buckingham Research.
I know it's been a long call so I'll be brief.
What should we be thinking about in terms of -- I'm looking at cash flows here tax rate and with the reversal of some of the bonus depreciation items over the last year what should we be thinking about in terms of deferred taxes and depreciation on the cash flow side? Rob? Yes Jeff.
I mean you're right.
Bonus depreciation we've had that benefit for several years now and we don't anticipate that we'll see that benefit continuing to 2014.
And as I've said it's -- that impact in '14 is going to be in the several hundred million dollar range but we don't think -- it's not going to impact our capital structure or our plans that we've outlined.
But it's going to be kind of in that neighborhood.
Okay.
So in terms of modeling free cash flow how should I think about the difference between the income statement depreciation cash flow depreciation? And what tax rate should I be thinking about? Yes.
From a tax rate standpoint I'd use around a 38%.
On a book basis yes.
Our final question this morning is from the line of Don Broughton of Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question in your assumptions in longer term and it's still a ways away what kind of assumptions have you made on international Intermodal post the opening of the wider Panama Canal? So in the latter half of 2015 and 2016 and then 2017 are you looking for international Intermodal volumes to be flattish just diminished rates of growth or actually go negative for you? So we have talked publicly before and we still think it holds that today about 1/3 of the business or about 30% of the business goes all water to the East Coast versus West Coast destinations.
We think that that might grow by 1% or 2% to 31% 32% but it won't be beyond that.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Jack Koraleski for closing comments.
Well great.
Thanks for joining us on the call this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you again in January.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
Welcome to the Union Pacific Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It's now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Jack Koraleski CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you.
Mr.
Koraleski you may begin.
Thanks Rob and good morning everybody.
Welcome to Union Pacific's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With me today here in Omaha are Rob Knight our Chief Financial Officer; Eric Butler Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; and Lance Fritz our Executive Vice President of Operations.
Well as you can see we wrapped up 2013 with another all-time record quarter.
Union Pacific achieved our best-ever quarterly earnings of $2.55 per share an increase of 16% compared to 2012.
For the first time in 6 quarters we reported overall volume growth despite significantly weaker coal shipments.
It highlights the strength of our diverse franchise the extensive network reach we have to various markets and a strong grain harvest.
When combined with solid core pricing gains and our continued focus on safety service and efficiency we achieved a record fourth quarter operating ratio of 65% improving more than 2 points compared to 2012.
During the quarter we battled some extreme winter weather that challenged us on many fronts but as we said before running a railroad is an outdoor sport and we successfully worked through the challenges managing and realigning our network resources to deliver on our customer commitments.
All in 2013 was another terrific year for Union Pacific with our financial performance exceeding all previous milestones.
It demonstrates our commitment to delivering safe efficient high-quality service that creates value for our customers and increased financial returns for our shareholders.
So to kick us off this morning I'm going to turn it over to Eric Butler.
Eric? Thanks Jack and good morning.
In the fourth quarter volume was up 2% compared to 2012 as the diversity of our franchise provided enough growth opportunities to offset volume declines in 2 of the groups.
We had strong gains in Ag Automotive and Industrial Products and Intermodal also saw modest volume growth.
This good news offset continued weakness in Coal and a slight decline in Chemicals.
Coal price improved 3.5% which combined with the benefit from positive mix produced a 5.5% improvement in average revenue per car.
Volume growth and the improved average revenue per car combined to drive freight revenue up nearly 7.5% to an all-time quarterly record of $5.3 billion.
Let's take a closer look at each of the 6 business groups.
Ag Products volume grew 13% which combined with 5% improvement in average revenue per car drove revenue growth up 19%.
A 41% increase in grain carloadings was driven by a strong harvest as improved yields increased crop production following last year's lower drought-impacted volumes.
With more competitive crop prices and strong global demand grain export volumes saw significant growth up more than 90%.
The strongest gains were in feed grain shipments to the PNW and Mexico and wheat exports to the Gulf.
Also contributing to this growth was increased demand for domestic feed grains.
Grain products volume was up 6% driven by a 21% increase in ethanol shipments as lower corn prices and increased gasoline consumption led refineries to replenish low ethanol inventories.
Shipments of DDGs also grew 19% driven by stronger export demand primarily by China.
Food and refrigerated shipments were down 4%.
Gains in import beer were offset by declines in sugar volumes following an unusually strong fourth quarter last year and a continued sugar surplus that reduced imports from Mexico.
Automotive volume grew 10% which combined with a 7% improvement in average revenue per car produced a 17% increase in revenue.
The same trends that supported growth throughout the year replacement demand low interest rates and favorable financing continued through the fourth quarter.
Aided by moderating fuel prices demand for pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles gained momentum and the growth rate of the automotive industry outpaced that of the overall economy.
UP finished vehicle shipments grew 7% as sales continued to grow with the seasonably adjusted annual sales rate reaching $15.9 million in the fourth quarter the highest quarterly level in 6 years.
Parts volume increased 13% while pricing gains and the previously announced Pacer network logistics management arrangement increased average revenue per car.
We now lapped that arrangement on a year-over-year basis so we won't see its positive ARC contribution going forward.
Chemicals revenue grew by 3% as a 3% increase in average revenue per car more than offset a 1% decline in volume.
Industrial chemicals volume was up 6% driven by strength in end user markets such as housing and automotive.
Increased demand in new business led to a 7% increase in petroleum products and LPG shipments.
Dampening the good news was a 22% decline in crude oil volume compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
And increased supply of crude at the Gulf Coast reduced Gulf prices which led to a decline in shipments from West Texas and Oklahoma.
In addition the discount of Louisiana Light Sweet to Brent displaced some of the Bakken crude shipments away from Texas and Louisiana.
Coal revenue declined 1%.
Fourth quarter volume was down 10% which was mostly offset by a 10% improvement in average revenue per car.
You can see from the chart of weekly carloadings that unseasonably early snow impacted shipments from the Southern Powder River Basin in October with the tonnage down 12% for the fourth quarter.
River infrastructure projects and low water levels on the Ohio River curtailed barge traffic at St.
Louis which also reduced shipments.
Also contributing to the decline were inventory management initiatives by select utilities and the continued impact of a contract lost from the beginning of the year.
Despite growth in West Coast exports Colorado/Utah tonnage declined 10% based on soft domestic demand and mine production issues.
Providing some good news tonnage from other coal-producing regions increased 10% from a relatively small base driven by gains from Southern Wyoming and other regions.
In Industrial Products a 9% increase in volume and a 5% increase in average revenue per car produced revenue growth of 14%.
Nonmetallic minerals volume was up 28% as continued growth in shale-related drilling mainly in the Eagle Ford and Permian Basins increased frac sand shipments by 36%.
Metals volume was up 11% driven by China-bound iron ore shipments through ports in California and Mexico.
We also saw growth in pipe shipments with increased pipeline and drilling activity related to shale energy.
Growth in housing and home improvements continued to increase the demand for lumber with shipments up 6%.
Intermodal revenue was flat in the fourth quarter.
Lower fuel surcharge revenue and unfavorable mix led to a 2% decline in average revenue per unit which offset volume growth of 2%.
Our International Intermodal volumes declined 1% driven by continued market share shifts within the ocean carrier industry and increased port transloading activity.
We also saw a greater flow of revenue empty move for international container repositioning which impacted the overall traffic mix for the quarter.
Volume fared better for Domestic Intermodal where continued success converting highway business to rail drove volume up 5%.
I'll close with a look at how we see our business shaping up for 2014.
Our current outlook is for the economy to continue its slow improvement.
A diverse franchise provides access to a number of markets with potential growth opportunities.
The new crops should provide opportunity for Ag in the first half of the year with anticipated growth in both domestic and export grain markets.
Food and refrigerated is expected to see modest growth.
Automotive manufacturers expect sales growth to continue and Global Insight has raised its full year light vehicle sales estimate to 16 million vehicles.
This should be good news for our finished vehicles and auto parts business.
Crude oil spreads a growing Gulf crude supply and increased pipeline activity are expected to have a continued impact on our crude-by-rail volumes.
Most other chemicals markets should remain solid.
Turning to Coal.
The previously mentioned legacy contract loss will impact volumes but low inventory levels and increased exports should help offset this.
Volume growth for the year will depend on weather conditions economic activity and natural gas prices.
Industrial Products should continue to benefit from shale-related activity with increased drilling supporting growth in frac sand and pipe shipments.
Housing starts are projected to exceed 1 million units for the first time since 2007 which is expected to demand -- drive demand for lumber shipments.
Increases in commercial construction are expected to support growth in rock metals and other highway-related markets.
Highway conversion should continue to drive growth in Domestic Intermodal.
International Intermodal may be challenged in the first quarter by a difficult comparison to 2013 but an improving economy and strengthening housing market should keep International Intermodal ahead of last year.
For the full year our strong value proposition and diverse franchise will again support business development efforts across our broad portfolio of business.
Across the groups we'll continue to develop opportunities in Mexico where our unparalleled ability to link Mexico's economic growth with U.S.
origins and destinations is the strength of our franchise.
Assuming the economy cooperates we expect to deliver profitable revenue growth yet again in 2014 driven by modest volume and core pricing gains.
And with that I'll turn it over to Lance.
Thanks Eric and good morning.
I'll start with our safety results.
The 2013 reportable personal injury rate was up slightly from our all-time record performance in 2012.
Not shown is the number of severe injuries which declined to a new record low.
We focus our attention on risk and severity because these injuries have the greatest human and financial impact.
Our goal is for every employee to return home safely after every shift and we will get there using a robust safety strategy that includes the Courage to Care Total Safety Culture and risk identification and mitigation.
Moving to rail equipment incidents or derailments.
Our full year reportable rate finished up 1% versus 2012.
We continue to make progress on human factor incidents through enhanced skills training and root cause resolutions.
In addition we continue to invest in capital to harden our infrastructure and leveraging advanced technologies to find and fix track and equipment defects.
In public safety our grade-crossing incident rate improved 7% versus 2012 a result of our efforts to improve or close high-risk crossings and to reinforce public awareness.
Most encouraging was the 17% improvement on our southern region which has a higher grade-crossing density than our overall network.
While our reportable rate in both employee and rail equipment safety increased slightly during 2013 the absolute number of incidents which includes incidents that do not meet the regulatory reportable threshold declined in both categories.
Our safety strategy helps keep our network strong and resilient particularly in the face of recent winter weather challenges.
Recall that in October a winter blizzard in Wyoming severely impacted shipments out of the Powder River Basin.
In early December we were hit with the most severe winter weather interruption in the past 7 years.
The storm covered 2/3 of our network and generated a 33% increase in the number of days with major service interruptions during the quarter.
As a result average train speed declined 3% in the fourth quarter compared to 2012 but remained within a solid service range.
These weather interruptions also drove a decline in our Service Delivery Index.
The metric which gauges how well we are meeting overall customer commitments also reflects the tighter service commitments we introduced last year.
We continued to provide outstanding local service to our customers with a fourth quarter record 95.5% Industry Spot &amp; Pull which measures the delivery or pulling of a car to or from a customer.
Overall our network remains well positioned to handle volume growth.
Moving on to network productivity.
We continue to leverage existing resources as grain train lengths set a new best-ever quarterly record while automotive and manifest train lengths set new best-ever fourth quarter records.
Intermodal train size dropped reflecting an increase in new service offerings.
We expect these new trains to grow as we convert business from the highway.
Other efficiencies included a 2% improvement in locomotive productivity as measured by gross ton miles per horsepower day in spite of a 2 to 2.5 point headwind due to the mix shift from lower coal shipments to higher manifest shipments.
The improvement reflects a long-term trend of increasing locomotive reliability as well as effective utilization plans.
We efficiently handled the volume growth across each region of our network effectively utilizing our workforce.
We leveraged growing manifest volumes within UP's existing terminal infrastructure as reflected by an improvement in car switch per employee day.
The improvement was particularly evident in our southern region where car switch per employee day increased 5%.
These productivity gains were generated by our men and women in the field as they leveraged their expertise to improve safety service and efficiency using the UP Way.
Moving on to our capital investments.
We invested nearly $3.6 billion in our network during 2013 with more than $2.1 billion in replacement capital to harden our infrastructure and improve the safety and resiliency of the network.
At the end of the year over 99% of our network was free of slow orders.
Spending for service growth and productivity totaled around $1 billion driven by investments in capacity commercial facilities and equipment.
Major projects included are $400 million investment in our Santa Teresa New Mexico facility and more than $200 million of capacity work in the South to support our diverse and growing book of business in that region.
In addition we invested another $420 million in Positive Train Control during the year bringing our cumulative PTC investment to $1.2 billion of our estimated $2 billion projected spend.
Although it's unlikely the industry will meet the 2015 deadline we're making a good-faith effort to do so and are working closely with regulators as we implement this new technology.
For 2014 our plan will likely exceed last year's spending.
We'll continue to make capacity investments in our southern region while also advancing capacity projects across other parts of our network.
Although some buckets will fluctuate year-over-year our core investment thesis will not which is to maintain a safe strong and resilient network and invest in service growth and productivity projects that meet our aggressive return thresholds.
So in summary we finished 2013 on a solid note despite the winter weather challenges.
As we move through 2014 our focus above all will be the safety of our employees and the communities in which we operate.
We'll take advantage of growth opportunities by leveraging our network resources.
We'll look to make productivity improvements in all areas utilizing resources more efficiently and investing capital productively.
As a result we'll provide customers with a value proposition that supports growth with high levels of service.
We call that moving our business up into the right.
All combined it translates into increased returns for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
Let's start with a recap of our fourth quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 7% to an all-time quarterly record of more than $5.6 billion driven mainly by solid core pricing gains and volume growth.
Operating expense totaled nearly $3.7 billion increasing 4%.
Operating income grew 14% to nearly $2 billion also hitting a best-ever quarterly mark.
Below the line other income totaled $37 million down $6 million compared to 2012.
Interest expense of $127 million was down slightly compared to the previous year.
Income tax expense increased to $709 million driven by higher pretax earnings and a higher effective tax rate.
Net income grew 13% versus 2012 while the outstanding share balance declined 2% as a result of our continued share repurchase activity.
These results combined to produce best-ever quarterly earnings of $2.55 per share up 16% versus 2012.
Turning to our top line.
Freight revenue grew 7.5% to a quarterly record of $5.3 billion driven by solid core pricing gains of about 3.5% which included a little over 1 point of legacy repricing.
Volume growth of 2% and favorable mix of a couple of points also contributed to the improvement.
Growth in longer-haul grain moves and a 5% increase in higher average revenue per car manifest shipments drove the positive mix.
These items were partially offset by growth in lower average revenue per unit Intermodal shipments.
Slide 21 provides more detail on our core pricing trends in 2013.
For the year our core pricing gains ranged between 3.5% and 4%.
Lost opportunity due to lower coal volumes totaled about 0.5 point for the full year.
This slide also shows the quarterly rail inflation escalator excluding fuel on a year-over-year basis.
As you can see it drifted into negative territory in the second half of 2013 creating a slight pricing headwind on a portion of our business which is tied to the escalator.
Over the past 5 years the cost escalator has averaged about 3% but as we've discussed we expect 2014 inflation to moderate negatively impacting our pricing gains but also tempering operating expense increases.
As we've said previously the more significant impact on our 2014 pricing will be the lack of about 1.5 points of legacy pricing benefit that we saw last year.
That said we remain committed to our strategy of pricing for reinvestability.
It's supported by the value we create for our customers and is required to generate the returns needed for continued investment in our franchise.
Moving on to the expense side.
Slide 22 provides a summary of our compensation and benefits expense which increased 7% compared to 2012.
Inflationary pressures volume-related expenses and a mix shift to more manifest traffic drove the increase.
In addition higher overtime and re-crew expenses driven by severe winter weather masked overall productivity gains.
You also need to take into account the $20 million payroll tax refund included in our 2012 fourth quarter results.
Excluding this onetime item our comp and benefit expense was up about 4.5%.
Workforce levels were flat for the quarter as we leveraged a 2% volume increase with a 1% increase in TE&amp;Y employees.
Fewer capital employees offset the TE&amp;Y workforce increase.
As we look at 2014 we expect our comp and benefits expense to grow.
However the extent will be driven by volume levels and business mix.
The good news story is our continued productivity initiatives that will help mitigate these increases.
In addition we'll continue to see labor inflation this year but it will likely moderate to below the 2% mark.
Turning to the next slide.
Fuel expense totaled $905 million decreasing 2% versus 2012 driven by a lower average diesel fuel price.
On the flip side gross ton miles increased 2% in the wake of strong grain shipments while our fuel consumption rate increased 1% compared to 2012.
Moving on to our other expense categories.
Purchased services and materials expense increased 10% to $585 million due to higher locomotive and freight car repair expenses and an increase in joint facility maintenance expense.
And we continued to incur management fees associated with the 2012 Pacer agreement which are recouped in our Automotive freight revenue line.
And as Eric mentioned we've now lapped that contract on a year-over-year basis so we won't see that variance going forward.
Depreciation expense was $458 million up 1% compared to 2012.
The impact of increased capital spending in recent years was mostly offset by an equipment rate study that went into effect in 2013.
For 2014 we expect depreciation expense to increase at a more normalized rate likely in the 6% to 7% range.
This range includes about $80 million of depreciation expense associated with Positive Train Control capital investments.
I'll talk more about PTC in a minute.
Slide 25 summarizes the remaining 2 expense categories.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $311 million up 3% compared to 2012.
Increased container expenses associated with the Pacer contract and growth in Agricultural and Automotive shipments mainly drove higher freight car rental expense.
Other expenses came in at $188 million up $6 million versus last year.
Higher property taxes and freight and equipment damage costs drove expenses up compared to 2012.
A reduction in personnel injury expense and effective cost control measures partially offset these increases.
For 2014 we expect the Other expense line to increase between 5% and 10% for the full year excluding any unusual items.
Turning to our operating ratio performance.
Our focus on pricing the business right and moving it efficiently continues to pay off.
We achieved a record fourth quarter operating ratio of 65% improving 2.1 points compared to 2012.
On a full year basis we also made tremendous strides by generating a best-ever operating ratio of 66.1%.
It clearly illustrates the strength and value proposition of the Union Pacific franchise.
We've talked about our focus on continued core pricing and productivity gains and leveraging what we see as modest volume growth over our planning horizon.
On the cost side it's a matter of effectively managing inflationary pressures in addition to other cost hurdles that we have every year.
For example operating taxes that we pay will continue to increase as our profitability grows.
Depreciation expense is another item that will continue to increase assuming a growing capital spend.
And as we've discussed depreciation and other operating expenses will be driven higher by shorter-life Positive Train Control assets and maintenance costs as we move further into that project.
Despite these obstacles we feel very good about our prospects of now achieving our sub-65% operating ratio before 2017.
Exactly how much sooner before 2017 will depend on the usual drivers: economic growth fuel prices inflationary hurdles just to name a few.
That said we're equally focused on cash generation and improving our overall financial returns.
Slide 27 provides a summary of our 2013 earnings with a full year income statement.
I'll walk through a few of the highlights from our record-setting year.
Operating revenue grew more than $1 billion to an all-time record of nearly $22 billion.
Operating income also set a new best-ever mark of $7.4 billion topping 2012 's record by 10%.
And net income of $4.4 billion and earnings of $9.42 per share also set new full year records.
Overall one of the key measures for our performance is the cash that we generate.
In 2013 cash from operations increased to $6.8 billion up 11% compared to 2012.
After $3.5 billion in cash capital investments and $1.3 billion of dividend payments our free cash flow totaled nearly $2.1 billion being the first rail to surpass the $2 billion mark in our industry's history.
Taking a closer look at 2014 we will not see the benefit of bonus depreciation.
In fact we'll see a headwind to free cash flow of about $400 million due to tax payments associated with prior year programs.
However we don't expect this to impact our cash allocation strategy or our ability to grow shareholder returns.
Slide 29 shows our 2013 all-in capital investment of $3.6 billion.
It's a bit higher than our cash capital due to capital leasing activity and other noncash capital items.
In 2014 we expect to increase our capital spending from 2013's levels pending final approval from our Board of Directors in February.
The chart on the right reflects our achievements in generating returns on these investments.
Return on invested capital was a record 14.7% in 2013 up 0.7 point from 2012.
If you calculate it on a replacement basis our return shrinks to about half that number.
Returns must continue to improve to support asset replacement costs and investments required to achieve our safety service and growth initiatives.
Beyond funding our capital commitments our record profitability and strong cash generation have enabled us to grow shareholder returns.
After increasing our quarterly dividend per share 15% in 2012 we raised it an additional 14.5% last year.
For 2013 we achieved a payout ratio of 31.5% up from 30% in 2012.
We're making good progress in moving up within our targeted payout range of 30% to 35%.
In addition we continue to make opportunistic share repurchases which play an important role in our balanced approach in cash allocation.
In the fourth quarter we bought back more than 4.9 million shares totaling $786 million.
Full year purchases topped more than 14.5 million shares totaling over $2.2 billion up 50% from 2012.
Our new repurchase authorization of up to 60 million shares over a 4-year time period went into effect January 1 of this year.
Combining dividend payments and share repurchases we returned over $3.5 billion to our shareholders in 2013.
It represents a 36% increase over 2012 clearly demonstrating our commitment to increasing shareholder value.
Our balance sheet remains strong supporting our ongoing commitment to a solid investment-grade credit rating.
Continued growth in earnings and cash flow has improved our 2013 year-end debt-to-cap ratio to roughly 38% and our debt-to-EBITDA to just under 1.4x even with the addition of nearly $600 million of balance sheet debt since last year.
As we've said these metrics are a little lower than where we believe they need to be.
We are targeting about 1.5x and around a 40% for year-end 2014 which is closer to the low 40s target range that we've previously discussed.
Our $1 billion debt issuance earlier this month was a good step in that direction.
So that's a recap of our fourth quarter and full year results.
As we focus on 2014 we're projecting another record financial year if the economy cooperates.
In addition to our pricing initiatives and ongoing productivity gains volume leverage opportunities should also help drive continued margin improvement.
And as Eric just highlighted we have growth opportunities across a variety of market sectors that should drive modest volume growth for the full year.
First quarter volumes also are expected to be on the positive side of the ledger driven by continued strong growth in grain shipments cross-border traffic with Mexico and various other industrial-related moves.
Our Coal business is a little more difficult to predict.
The lost legacy business creates about a 2% headwind on our Coal volumes in 2014.
But as always weather and the economy will be the driving factors for our Coal business this year.
We feel very good about our outlook as we move forward.
Our fundamentals are strong supported by a diverse franchise that allows us to pursue new attractive market opportunities.
We'll continue to move the ball forward focusing on improved returns to support capital investments that will strengthen and enhance our network create value for our customers and drive increased returns for our shareholders.
So with that I'll turn it back to Jack.
Thanks Rob.
So as we look at 2014 we see the economy is slowly strengthening.
We're well positioned for economic growth and are confident in our ability to deliver on our customers' growing transportation needs.
Excellent service is key to our future success.
It supports our pricing initiatives and improves network and asset utilization.
It also demonstrates the power of our value proposition to new customers that are looking for viable transportation alternatives.
Our capital investment strategy will be another key part of UP's success going forward.
We are making investments today building the capacity that we need for tomorrow.
Longer term we remain bullish on our future prospects.
We'll continue our unrelenting focus on both safety and service to our customers.
We strongly believe in the power and the potential of the Union Pacific franchise to drive even greater financial performance and shareholder returns in the years to come.
So with that let's open it up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Tom Wadewitz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you could give a little more flavor on the Coal outlook.
I know you've got this 2 percentage point headwind from the lost contract but it just seems like we're having pretty favorable weather impact in terms of the cold winter.
You said some of your customers had already taken actions to reduce inventories.
So maybe if you can give us a comment on where inventories are and whether you've seen some signs that maybe customers are looking to take more coal given what appears to be a little better weather pattern.
Sure.
Eric? Tom as you know our Coal volumes are really driven by economic activity both on the industrial side and the consumer side.
Certainly weather patterns particularly Coal particularly hot weather will drive that.
Natural gas prices will drive that.
If you look at the last 30 days certainly those items seem to suggest a stronger coal outlook.
But as you know all of those items could move around month to month quarter to quarter.
And overall coal market share still is hanging in there around 39%.
It's been pretty pretty static.
So the outlook drivers will be exactly what we said: economic activity weather patterns natural gas prices.
And we -- I'm not sure we have any special ability to predict that better than anybody else.
And the latest numbers the 10 days is from what November? Down 10 days Southern Powder River Basin.
So it'll be interesting to see how the December numbers play out.
Research Division</strong> So where do you -- Jack where do you think stockpiles are right now? Are they below...
Tom the last report we saw was November data that said Southern Powder River Basin stockpiles were down about 10 days.
So it's somewhere around -- so that would put it somewhere around 60 days.
Research Division</strong> And that's pretty close to target? It's actually a little bit below target for this time of the year.
Research Division</strong> A little bit below target okay.
And then the follow-up question it seems like you've had some recent favorable data points from a couple of truckload carriers.
It feels like that market is improving and maybe tightening a little bit.
If you look at the velocity numbers for your primary rail competitor for Burlington Northern it seems like they've had some challenges maybe with capacity that their velocity has been down.
And it feels like you're maybe shaping up to have a cyclical or capacity-driven improvement in pricing as you look into 2014.
I guess that assumes the economy improves.
I was wondering if you could offer a thought if that's a reasonable way to look at it that pricing might improve if you see the economy develops a momentum.
Eric? Tom as you said it feels like the economy is slowly strengthening.
And our competitor that you made reference to they're a good company.
Certainly we all have had challenges in the past and we assume they'll work through those.
Our focus is really on driving our business development opportunities.
We have a great service value proposition.
We're growing our business development as we said.
Our Domestic Intermodal I think this is the fifth record year for Domestic Intermodal.
So we feel -- we continue to feel pretty good about our outlook and our opportunities in that space.
Our next question is from the line of Justin Yagerman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So I'm just thinking about the long-term guidance and the sub-65% OR by 2017.
And we had a pretty good year this year with the economy.
You guys had a record year in terms of your earnings and results.
And we improved our operating ratio by 170 basis points or so.
I mean just extrapolating you had Coal down 9% this year.
If Coal is slightly better than that besides the fact that you've got this headwind from the legacy side what else makes you hesitant to say yes we can probably at least hit that 65% target next year? I mean from my standpoint that guidance feels wildly conservative and I'm trying to figure out what the X factor is.
I mean to me it's Coal because you've got that double-levered impact from a pricing standpoint.
But if I have to think about the bias it feels like it's still a positive there.
So when you're sitting down and putting pen to paper on that how are you guys thinking about that? Okay.
Rob why don't you take a shot at that? Yes.
So as you've heard me say many many times we're not going to slow down to get to the target at a later date and time.
And I hope you're right with everything you've said that we're going to get there as efficiently and aggressively as we can as we have over the last milestones that we've set.
And as I cautioned things that we are mindful of are mix impacts driven by the economy weather fuel.
Those are all factors that go into it so we'll see how it all plays out.
And I hope you're right and we're certainly going to take advantage and leverage every opportunity we have to get there as efficiently and as soon as we can.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
When it comes to the share buybacks and the pace I mean obviously 60 million shares nice amount of capital to potentially deploy there.
I think you guys laid out some slightly more aggressive balance sheet goals for this year.
How confident do you feel around getting to those balance sheet targets? And when I think about the potential for going past those are those hard stops? Or is that kind of fungible based on what you're seeing from the environment and obviously those ratios move with what your capital looks like? So I'm trying to get a sense of that.
Go ahead Rob.
Yes.
Justin I mean also as you've heard us say many times I mean we are going to continue to be opportunistic in our share buybacks.
I think you saw that in the fourth quarter where the pace was quite strong.
I think our 60 million over a 4-year period new program shows our confidence over the long term.
It all starts with generating the cash on the front end.
And that's -- our primary focus is to do that to enable us to continue to have the opportunities to invest in the business where it makes sense where the returns are there continue to raise the dividend and continue to have an aggressive buyback program.
In terms of the targets I've said many times it's not how we initially build it but we're kind of looking at that low 40s debt-to-cap range.
And there's no hard number there but that low 40s feels good to us and we plan on moving in that direction.
Our next question is from the line of Allison Landry of Crdit Suisse Group.
Research Division</strong> With respect to Crude-by-Rail obviously we've seen Bakken and West Texas move falling off here.
But as we think about 2014 and volume growth in crude are you expecting some year-over-year growth given that you do have exposure to areas like the Niobrara and the Uinta and that in addition to some origination and destination facilities coming online to use -- support some of the heavy Canadian crude moving down to the Gulf.
So I was wondering if you could opine on that.
Sure.
Eric? So Allison as we've said before the core part of our strategy is as you suggest strengthening destination facilities identifying places where crude can land identifying places where we could strengthen originations whether with rail partners or on our own accord.
So that's a core part of our strategy.
We're going to continue to do that.
In some parts of the country there are clearly lots of environmental and other processes that you have to go through to get new facilities up and running.
And so there probably are not a significant number of new facilities that will physically be coming online in 2014 but that is a core part of our strategy to basically strengthen facilities.
Having said that we acknowledge and recognize that really where and when and how crude flows between the various shale plays and the various destination regions really are fundamentally going to be driven by the market and spreads.
And we have probably no greater ability to predict that than anyone else.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's a little bit unclear at this point whether or not you'll see volume growth this year? Is that fair? We're going to have to just wait and see as we look at what happens to the spreads in the market.
We're excited.
There's a couple of California destinations that are supposed to come online.
We have to wait and see how that is going to play out in terms of the permitting process as Eric said.
There's a lot of moving parts to this one so...
Research Division</strong> Got it.
On the Intermodal side can you give us a sense of how much of a volume uplift that you might see on the domestic side from the opening of the Santa Teresa facility and some of the new services that you recently announced with Ferromex going to Chicago and then the service from Laredo to Memphis? How much do you think that this could add to volume growth? Well Allison we're probably not going to give you the number you're looking for.
We're not going to give guidance specifically on it but we're pretty excited about opening the facility.
The Intermodal piece will open around April 1.
So we'll transfer our current El Paso book of business over.
And we've already started the marketing and the development efforts the business development efforts in Northern Mexico the maquiladoras regions of Mexico and those places to start bringing product online.
We're seeing nice growth in our Eagle Premium Service and our service from Laredo into the Southeast.
And we think that's going to continue to help us develop and fill out our Intermodal franchise in 2014.
Eric do have anything else to add to that? No that's it.
As you said we're excited about it.
We think we got a great franchise and we're excited about the opportunities.
Our next question is from the line of Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> So for you Rob I just want to make sure did I hear you right that excluding legacy the core price got a little bit better in fourth quarter? I just wasn't sure I heard that right.
And then when I think about mix so a real nice mix helped in the fourth quarter how much of that do you think is grain? And if a lot of it is grain should we think about that mix health continuing for the first I'd say 2 or 3 quarters of '14? Yes.
Scott just I think the way to look at the legacy I wouldn't read too much into that.
I think there was about 1.5 point impact throughout the year of 2013.
So that's probably a safe number to continue to think about.
In terms of mix Scott as you know it's difficult and we don't give guidance on mix.
But if strong long-haul grain shipments are stronger this year which -- certainly that'd be a plus.
That in and of itself will have a positive impact on mix.
There are other moving parts as you know.
But it's why we shy away from giving mix guidance because there are so many moving parts but that would be a net positive.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I want to take Justin's question and focus it maybe a little bit more on 2014 and Rob your margin view.
So I think we all get less legacy this year but to Justin's point kind of Coal should be certainly not down 9% and hopefully positive.
You talked about less cost inflation.
Just directionally are there other things we should be thinking about why margins improvement in '14 can't be similar to what we saw in '13? Or do you think the lack of legacy is just so powerful that that affects an unreasonable expectation? No.
Scott actually we're not -- what I'm just saying is that there's a lot -- the same moving parts that we've had for the last 10 years we're going to have those same moving parts as we look forward.
And that's going to be the economy the impact of fuel the impact of mix on our business so the higher depreciation rates that I guided you.
Those are all factors.
But don't read that to think that we kind of lost our enthusiasm to continue to move the ball forward on being aggressive in improving our margins and we hope stars are aligned and we hope to be able to leverage each of those opportunities as we continue to make progress.
I would also just call to everybody's attention that we've just proven in the last 2 years the impact weather can have on the grain harvest.
And it can be pretty dramatic from year to year.
So again all of those things kind of enter the picture.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just picking up on thoughts around the buyback.
When you think about 2014 or I guess the next couple of quarters is there any sort of major puts or takes we should be thinking about that would potentially lead to an acceleration or a deceleration on the pace of purchases versus where you were in the fourth quarter I guess with some of your targets about '14? I just want to get a rough sense if that's where the right run rate to be thinking about over the course of the next year or so.
Rob? Chris no.
I mean as you've heard me say many times we've been reluctant to give any kind of a run rate or guidance on that.
We'll -- the common theme will be we will continue to generate a strong cash position as we can and we will continue to be opportunistic in our share buybacks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But no real sort of thinking dynamic it's just going to be an opportunistic type of decision on that? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Eric a quick question for you.
Just when you think about the International Intermodal I know there's been some sort of -- there's been port changes among some of your customers.
And so when I think about that in '14 do you have a point in sort of the second quarter or so when you begin to lap some of those differences where you start to see some of that international volume pick back up just on the back of easier comps? Yes.
As we said we're going to have some difficult comps in the first quarter just because first quarter '13 was so strong for us.
As you know steamship carriers are constantly looking at ports and the ports that we have access to are still a strong part of their portfolio.
There will be economic drivers but we don't think that there's any particular specific port-driven drivers that you'll see that will change the volume outlook in the latter half of the year.
Our next question is from the line of Brandon Oglenski with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Lance I want to ask you a question.
With expectations for volume growth here for the first time in about 2.5 years does that make the efficiency opportunity that more easy to capture? Or does it drive some complications with adding capacity and adding workforce to handle the new volume? Well thanks for the question.
We love volume growth.
It does present opportunities for generating productivity both in network yards and on line road and train size many other areas.
We are well prepared for it.
I wouldn't categorize capital investment as a challenge.
I'd categorize that as another opportunity and one that we love to embrace.
Because right now we're generating pretty attractive returns on those investments.
So we're in pretty good shape for the growth that we see coming forward.
Research Division</strong> So is it possible that with the expansion this year the efficiencies are even more visible? I wouldn't say that.
I don't think we can commit to that.
I think we can commit to what Rob has said which is we pursue productivity regardless of the environment.
And our track record is such that we generate productivity.
Research Division</strong> And Rob I want to follow up on that too.
With compensation and benefits you did say you're going to have lower inflation hurdles this year.
Can we talk about some of the drivers from a headcount perspective and then inflation perspective for that line? Yes.
Let me start with the expected employment numbers.
I mean that as we've always said will depend on what volume is.
We would expect that if volume increases our overall headcount will increase but not 1:1 because obviously there is productivity that we're able to achieve.
And that excludes any capital headcount as sort of our -- to run our railroad.
On the inflation side yes as I pointed out in my comments we do expect 2014 inflationary pressures to moderate.
We see that on the labor line at around 2% or so all in driven by some health and welfare positive news in our overall inflation expectations.
And pension is part of that.
The next question comes from the line of Ken Hoexter with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Jack maybe just your thoughts on returns and the Surface Transportation Board particularly with 2 relatively new commissioners your thoughts on being the top rail returns generating the highest returns relative to their cost formula.
Your needs on replacement rate returns now given Moby's [ph] retirement.
Maybe you can just kind of give some thoughts on that.
Sure Ken.
You know what we're looking at this as an opportunity.
We'll certainly do everything we can to help educate the new members and make sure that they understand the dynamics.
It has taken us a long time for not only Union Pacific but other railroads to get to a revenue adequacy point of view.
And when you get there that's not the end of the game that's not the goal because the whole issue of replacement cost still has to be dealt with.
It still has to be brought into the picture.
And so therefore as we look at it we're not afraid of it.
We're ready to engage and we don't see at this point in time any negative consequences of changing out the STB members.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just similarly maybe it's more for Eric but on all the comments on the -- noting the economy is accelerating I guess where do you see it hitting in terms of volumes and relative I guess specifically or maybe it's a Lance question on how much capacity you see in the network right now? I think we're going to just leave it Ken with Rob's comment which was we expect volumes to be positive this year.
And how positive is really going to depend -- we're sitting here on January 23.
There's a lot of year to play out.
So we'll see.
We are optimistic at this point in time that the economy does appear to be strengthening as we go forward.
We like the prospects of having a strong grain harvest to kick the year off for us and hope that the second half is just as good.
We're watching the coal burn just like you guys all are in terms of what's happening on the weather conditions and the economy activity to drive further consumption and the natural gas prices.
So there's a lot of things right now.
And if we can go through the year without a lot of government interference from debt ceilings and budget bills and those kinds of things we could have a fairly decent year.
But we're certainly not afraid of the volume in any shape or form.
Research Division</strong> Just a technical question if I can.
When does the Coal contract comp against itself the lost contract? Is that the end of 1Q? Start of the year Ken.
The next question is from the line of William Greene of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious on pricing if we can come back to that.
And if we look at your outlook for the economy how long in your experience in the past has it been before strong volume strong economy tighter markets start to allow the rail market to price up? We've obviously had all that legacy business.
But just more from an underlying organic pricing standpoint how long does that take typically? Overall Bill we're not going to get much into a discussion on pricing here.
I will just tell you that as we look across our markets at all times every market is different.
So the pricing opportunities ebb and flow with each individual markets.
And I don't know.
Eric do you have any other insight? No.
I would just say what Rob is continually said in the past.
As we reported price the majority of our price has been on legacy pricing.
So I don't think it's an assumption that [indiscernible] We'll watch each market carefully.
And our goal is always to price to market.
Research Division</strong> Can you remind us the percent of business that's tied to RCAF? Rob? Bill for competitive reasons we don't share that number.
It's a fraction of our business.
It's certainly not the majority but that's a piece of information that we have not publicly shared.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just one last detail question on weather in the first quarter.
I know we don't typically sort of break it out.
You operate outdoors obviously.
But given what you've seen so far is it going to be a material impact in the first quarter based on what you know today? Not the first 23 days.
It depends on what happens tomorrow.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So 24 days and we got it.
That's it.
24 days and we'll see what happens on day 25.
Our next question is from David Vernon Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Eric a question for you on safety regulations with respect to crude.
Obviously if you get more stringent tank car standards you might see a volume impact.
But I was wondering how you might think that would impact your ability to price.
Because presumably oil spreads have widened a little bit and some capacity was taken out of the system and maybe you could get a little opportunity to price that business a little more.
Is that the right way to think about it? Or how have you guys been thinking about it? David I'm going to let Lance talk about kind of the safety-related issues.
But as we say we really don't talk publicly about pricing strategies.
We would assume that if there's a safety mandate that has a higher cost or price car associated with it that would be reflected in the supply chain associated with moving crude by rail.
And I'm not sure that there was a question in there on safety and crude-by-rail.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Well I mean I guess would you think that some of the regulations would pull some capacity out of the crude-by-rail marketplace? I don't think we can comment on that.
The things that are being discussed are the tank car standards that's really driven by the DOT and PHMSA.
We already treat crude oil trains in a fashion that's over and above what's required by regs in terms of keeping our communities safe.
So I don't think I'd comment on that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then Eric maybe just a quick follow-up on Automotive.
Given the sourcing shift towards Mexico and your greater share of that market is it right to think that the volume could be a little bit better than light vehicle sales on an ongoing basis? Or how long do you think you might be able to keep that better than light vehicle sale growth in volumes for Automotive going? So in terms of the Mexican automotive -- the Mexico manufacturing automotive market there are a lot of new facilities coming online in the next several years which will grow the production in Mexico from roughly 3 million vehicles a year today to 4 million vehicles a year if you go out several years from now.
We with our franchise continue to expect to get our fair share of that in terms of shipping those vehicles to market.
But those -- whatever vehicles are manufactured in Mexico will of necessity have to displace vehicles manufactured elsewhere unless the total sales number is going up.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And do you think you guys might get a little bit better share of that if it was like an Eastern facility moving down South or Canadian facility moving south? I'm not quite sure of the question.
But clearly as sales increase for the industry given our strong Mexico franchise we expect to get our fair share of that growth.
Our next question is from Walter Spracklin of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm just going to follow up here on price.
I just wanted to check if my math is right here.
If I just average out your core pricing or the -- over the year you're about 3.75%.
You said about 1.5 of that is due to legacy.
So if we strip that out you're down to about 2.25.
You indicated that lower inflation would pressure the average price down.
So if I exclude fuel surcharge and exclude mix are we looking at below 2% core price for next year? Is my math correct there in interpreting what you said? Is there something I'm missing there? Rob? Yes.
Walter as you know we don't give pricing guidance.
So we're not getting -- other than that we're focused on it.
We price per value.
We're confident in our ability to get reinvestable pricing and above inflation.
We also commented that we don't -- won't get the turbocharge if you will over 1.5 on legacy and that we will feel a little bit of pressure on the moderating inflationary pressures for those contracts that are -- have that index.
Beyond that we haven't given commentary on our pricing other than to say that we're going to continue to provide a good safe service to our customers and continue to look for opportunities to price to value and then continue to achieve core pricing in our business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just sticking on pricing here on the yields side with Ag.
Obviously as the volume is coming back it is affecting your average yield.
Is the fourth quarter rate whether we use it on a per carload basis or -- should it continue to move? Or is that fourth quarter rate a fairly decent rate to use for -- as we look at 2014? Eric? No.
Certainly as we are continuing out the crop year which kind of goes through the mid part of the second quarter you would probably see similar trends as what we've seen in the fourth quarter.
The further out that should look it certainly depends on the crop year for next year.
The weather and the size of the crop that should get beyond that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes got it.
Okay.
And just a technical question perhaps for Lance.
Headcount how do you see that evolving? Is that something that changes directly with volume? Or do you see some synergy opportunities here that you can maybe move headcount a little less than volume this year? Yes.
Our intent is to always move headcount less than the growth rates and volume and that's what we'd anticipate doing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is flat a good number to put in for now? Or...
We won't make any...
I hope not.
I hope we grow more than that.
Our next question is coming from the line of Justin Long of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> When you gave your long-term OR guidance you talked about averaging about 50% incremental margins along the way.
The last 2 years we've been well above that level.
Clearly a big piece of this is due to the top line growth being more driven -- or driven more by RPU as volumes have been slightly down.
But headed into the next couple of years if we see volumes start to drive a larger percentage of your top line growth is it fair to say we see incremental margins trend closer to that 50% or maybe even a little bit below? Justin all those are factors -- this is Rob.
All of those are factors that go into what it ultimately would be.
But I haven't changed our view in terms of needing to achieve as this kind of a rough target that 50% incremental margin on our growth as we look forward.
So how we get there will depend on mix will depend on fuel prices will depend on a lot of things.
But that's still our focus.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then as a follow-up I wanted to ask about Intermodal pricing and your expectations to -- in 2014.
Do you think we could see an acceleration versus the trends we've seen in the last year? Or is your expectation that it continues to be a pretty competitive pricing environment? No.
So from an industry standpoint I'm not making any reference to UP but from an industry standpoint it's still a competitive industry.
The international intermodal industry has surplus capacity with all the steamship carriers coming on.
The domestic intermodal industry it's a huge opportunity but you've got a lot of effective competitors.
It is a competitive environment.
Research Division</strong> And do you think that XPO's acquisition of Pacer will have any impact on your business? And overall as you look at your IMC partners is there a possibility we'll see any changes or shifts in the next year or 2? XPO's acquisition of Pacer from our perspective we think is a good deal for XPO and Pacer and our business relationships with them.
And we expect that to be positive for us.
In terms of the other IMCs in the industry there's always a lot of moving parts.
Our approach is to have business relationships with the wide swath of the IMCs and we'll continue to do that.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from the line of Matt Troy with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> A question for Rob just one specifically as it relates to Mexico.
I know the focus historically has been on Intermodal and Automotive when we go to the talking points on growth.
But you obviously have a movement afoot down there legislatively to open up natural resource extraction opportunities to foreign investment.
You're on the board of the venture down there.
I was wondering Rob if you could just give us an update on the legislative pathway down there perhaps the commercial opportunity in energy transporter with Mexico.
And realistically what kind of time frame we might start to think about as that develops into a real viable commercial opportunity for UP? Matt Jack and I are both on the FXE board in it for those of you who may not be as close to it we have -- we own 26% of interest.
I think everybody's excited about what's happening down in Mexico on multiple fronts but specifically to the energy reform.
I think there probably are a lot of bases yet to be tagged and a lot of progress yet to be made.
So I don't think it's necessarily a this-year kind of activity.
But it's probably several years out yet before you actually see it start to take hold.
But nonetheless it's a great opportunity for us and our partner.
Our next question is from the line of Thomas Kim Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> How much did your cross-border traffic grow last year? Eric? I don't have the exact number off the top of my head but I believe it was about 10%.
10% first year over $2 billion of revenue.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then as that traffic grows what impact is it going to have on length of haul and to average intermodal ARPUs? We measure length of haul from the border.
So I don't think it will have a material impact in terms of on length of haul metrics.
Matt that 10% growth by the way was in the fourth quarter just to be clear.
Research Division</strong> And then just the last follow-up on that.
Can you give us a sense of the incremental margin from cross-border versus the overall franchise? Matt this is Rob.
Yes we don't break that out that way.
I mean it's good business for us and I wouldn't look at it as materially different from our base business but that's something we don't break it out that way.
Our next question is from the line of Cherilyn Radbourne of TD Securities.
I wanted to ask one on the International Intermodal business.
It looks like we'll get some carrier consolidation this year with the new alliance potentially a big merger.
What if anything do you think that means for the business in general and your franchise specifically? As I was saying our assessment is that there's a significant overcapacity in the steamship industry today and short of worldwide improvement in industrial production that consumes that capacity they'll need to have something done to absorb that capacity.
So there are a lot of conversations going on as you mentioned.
I'm not sure we have any particular insight or perspective beyond what's out there in the marketplace.
Okay.
And then one question on operations.
For most of 2013 your growth was very biased towards your Southern region and to manifest traffic in particular.
So that was a challenge that you were dealing with.
Does that trend persist in 2014? Or is that dynamic starting to level out a little bit? I don't think we comment on where exactly volume's going.
But I will say that the South has done a stellar job stepping up to that volume increase.
And actually I would welcome continuing to see that trend.
It would leverage the capital investment we've been putting down there and leverage the process improvements that our team has put in place.
I'm really pretty excited about that.
The next question is from the line of John Larkin with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question for Rob.
We were wondering if you had a message embedded in your use of the phrase "pricing for reinvestability" instead of the phrase that perhaps has been used more historically "inflation plus pricing." Is there a nuanced meaning to that? No John.
In fact I've used that terminology actually for several years.
Basically what we're saying is at a minimum something has to be able to be priced at a reinvestable level.
We price to market and we're confident we add it all up if that's above inflation.
Yes.
Our long-term goal John we started this a long time ago is to say that every carload of freight that moves on the Union Pacific meets our reinvestability threshold.
So that's kind of like an entry-level as we look at pricing opportunities.
And that's why in some cases our volume growth hasn't been quite as strong because we're being relatively selective in terms of what business does move on our franchise.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just as a follow-on perhaps for Lance.
As you've gotten deeper into the PTC project I know initially there were thoughts that there weren't a lot of economic benefits associated with it.
But as you've gotten deeper into it do you think there are some operational improvements that could be driven out of the data and capabilities that will be embedded in the PTC system once it's fully operational? So John this is how we think about PTC: The first is I'm very proud of our team and our industry for driving that project to a point where now I can see I believe it's going to be successful and we're going to have put in place a significant -- maybe the industry's most significant technological advancement in a very short -- relatively short period of time.
All PTC does is overlay on your existing system and stop trains for 4 reasons.
So PTC on its own and the technology that we're investing right now on its own does not enhance operations.
It is a safety enhancement and I applaud that.
Having said that also the technology that's embedded in PTC might form a foundation for future investments that could be helpful but that's over and above the investments that we're making right now and they'll have to be justified by that return.
The next question is from the line of Keith Schoonmaker with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Rob mentioned fuel as a potential speed bump on the path to the OR target.
But are there still any major fuel efficiency levers and reserve like broader distributed power or more full implementation of throttle technology? Lance? Sure.
Could you repeat that question please for me? Research Division</strong> Sure Lance.
I guess I'm asking given the importance of fuel are there still major levers to pull like broader implementation of throttle technology or more use of distributed power? Yes absolutely there are.
We're pretty deeply penetrated on DPU.
But every unit that we buy is DPU-equipped.
And so we'll continue to be able to penetrate parts of our network and train service that aren't currently DPU-ed.
So that's always a benefit and a plus.
And in terms of other technologies we are actually deploying 2 different types of technology that will benefit in fuel consumption rate across the network.
We're doing that in a measured fashion testing it and highlighting it in certain areas first but I see that we've got a lot of leverage we can continue to pull on fuel -- fuel consumption rate.
Research Division</strong> And following up on that.
If you do improve fuel economy do you have to in effect give some of this back via say reduced fuel surcharges? If you look at what we're going to do Keith we're going to invest in the economics.
And we need to have a return on that in order to justify and pay for the investment that we're making in that.
So at this point in time we're not looking at changing any of our fuel.
Basically our fuel surcharge situation is designed to recover changes in fuel cost and it will continue to be that way.
The next question is from the line of Jeff Kauffman of Buckingham Research.
My questions have been answered but let me just ask one quick one.
Pension expense if you hit this I know it will be lower but can you just discuss what's changed and how much lower? Rob? Yes.
Higher returns and higher interest rates are driving a lower expected expense is what -- are the big drivers this year.
Right but did you identify how much lower? I did not.
Are you willing to? Maybe in the neighborhood of $30-plus million delta.
Okay.
So helpful not material.
Our final question is from the line of Ben Hartford of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I wondered could you provide some context to what the volume growth looked like for the UPDS and streamline products in the fourth quarter and possibly provide some perspective as to what that volume comprises in the Intermodal segment in 2013? Yes.
I don't think we historically break that out but those are good vehicles for us to grow our business.
We have a great business development focus and both of those are and continue to grow nicely for our business.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe as we a look into 2014 and think about container growth of your controlled fleet can you provide a number for where we are in -- or we ended 2013 from a controlled container fleet perspective and what the growth expectation for 2014 will be? Are you talking about the size of the fleet? Research Division</strong> Yes the [indiscernible] and new [ph] mix.
We historically have not discussed publicly the total size of our fleet.
We do think that those strategies of an owned fleet are the right strategy.
So we will be maintaining -- you could assume we will be maintaining or growing the size of our fleet.
Thank you.
I'll turn this call back over to Mr.
Jack Koraleski for closing comments.
Okay.
Thank you so much for joining us this morning.
We're looking forward to speaking with you again at the end of April and in between as we have various meetings.
So take care and thanks again.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Thank you for accessing Union Pacific Corporation's first quarter earnings conference call held at 8:45 AM Eastern time on April 17 2014 in Omaha.
This presentation and the accompanying materials include statements that contain estimates and projections or expectations regarding the Corporations financial results and operations and future economic conditions.
These statements are forward-looking statements as defined by the federal securities law.
Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
The materials accompanying this presentation include more detailed information regarding forward-looking information and these risks and uncertainties.
Thanks Robin good morning everybody.
Welcome to Union Pacifics first quarter earnings conference call.
With me here today in Omaha are Eric Butler our Executive Vice President of marketing and sales Lance Fritz President and Chief Operating Officer and Rob Knight our Chief Financial Officer.
This morning were pleased to report that Union Pacific achieved first quarter earnings of $2.38 per share an increase of 17% compared to the first quarter of 2013 and another all-time quarter record.
Total volumes were up 5% and the increase was broad-based.
We saw growth in five of our six business groups with particular strength in agricultural shipments industrial products and coal.
The volume growth combined with solid core pricing and a continued focus on safety service and efficiency drove a 2 point improvement in our operating ratio to a record 67.1% for the quarter.
As you all know this winter was one for the record but especially in the upper Midwest.
So we're proud of the efforts of the men and women of the Union Pacific who worked tirelessly to serve our customers despite these weather challenges and helped us to achieve a solid start to the year.
So with that let's get into it.
I'll turn it over to Eric.
Thanks Jack and good morning.
In the first quarter volume was up 5% compared to 2013 as solid demand made up for the challenging weather conditions in much of the country.
We had strong grains in agricultural products industrial products and coal.
We also saw volume growth in the automotive and in chemicals we were able to offset declines in crude oil with gains in other commodities to end up even with last years strong first quarter results.
Corporate improved 2% which was partially offset by unfavourable mix and lower fuel prices to produce a 1% improvement in average revenue per car add in our volume growth and we increased freight revenue by 6% to a first quarter record of $5.3 billion.
Let's take a closer look at each of the six business groups.
At products volume grew 13% which combined with a 3% improvement in average revenue per car throws revenue growth up 16%.
We continue to see strong demand for grain with carloadings up 39% driven by last year's strong harvest.
The biggest gains were in grain exports to China and Mexico and wheat exports to the Gulf.
And lower corn prices drove increased demand for domestic feed grains.
Grain product volume was up 5% driven by the 11% increase in ethanol shipments as refineries replenish low ethanol inventories.
Shipment to BBG's grew 38% driven by strong export demand primarily from China.
Food and repurchase shipments were down 3% for the quarter as the winter weather impact the cycle times for equipment serving the produce and frozen food markets.
Partially offsetting those declines were gains in import beer where volume grew 3%.
Automotive volume grew 2% though average revenue per car was down 2% resulting in flat revenue for the quarter.
I'll talk more about the average revenue per car decline in a moment.
First finished vehicle shipments declined 3% as winter weather impacted shipments and we had a couple of plants with unscheduled shutdowns.
While automotive production was strong in the quarter the severe winter weather contributed to year-over-year sales declines in January and February.
Sales rebounded strongly in March up 5.6% thanks to improved weather and dealer incentives.
We expect that our finished vehicle shipments to rebound as the rail network recovers from the challenging weather.
From the parts side volume increased 9% with strong production and over-the-road conversions driving gains.
The decrease I mentioned earlier in average revenue per car reflects a change in the way we handle per diem revenue on Intermodal containers used by our customers for auto parts.
As a result in 2014 the per diem revenue is included in other revenues instead of automotive commodity revenue.
Chemicals volume was flat for the quarter with revenue up 2% on a 3% increase on average revenue per car.
Industrial chemicals volume was up 7% driven by strength in end user market such as shale related drilling paper products and the icing materials.
Fertilizer shipments were up 7% for the quarter on strong export potash demands.
Crude oil volume declined 18% compared to the first quarter of last year with price spreads negatively impacting volume.
Partially offsetting the decline was an increase in our prior shipments to the Gulf Coast.
Turning now to coal revenue increased 3% in the first quarter on a 7% increase in volume.
The average revenue per car declined 4% driven by mix and lower fuel prices.
Southern Powder River basin tonnage was up 2% as demand from the cold winter and higher natural gas prices offset our previously reported contract loss.
Colorado Utah coal tonnage was up 13% and benefitting from the increased domestic demand as well as gains in West Coast exports.
We continue to see strength from other coal producing regions where tonnage was up 25% for the quarter.
Now in industrial products business a 9% increase in volume and a 1% improves in average revenue per car produced revenue growth of 10%.
Non-metallic minerals volume was up 18% for the quarter.
We continue to see strong demand for frac sand and shale related drilling which was up 22% over last year.
Aggregate and cement demand were strong particularly in Texas and California driving construction shipments up 10% for the first quarter.
And our government and waste shipments were up 23% driven by a waste customer adding short haul shipments in January and February.
Additionally the winter weather increased demand for salt while shipments were up 28% compared to the first quarter last year.
Intermodal revenue was up 4% in the first quarter driven by 3% volume gain and a 1% improvement in average revenue per unit.
Domestic Intermodal volume was up 8% in the quarter driven by strength from our traditional IMC customers new motor carrier customers and demand for new premium service offerings.
Headwinds from the severe winter weather were offset by business development and highway conversions.
Our international Intermodal volumes declined 1% against the strong comparison from the first quarter of 2013.
The winter weather impacted consumer demand and imports to the West Coast ports were down nearly 3% for the first two months of the year.
Now take a look at how we see out business shaping up for the rest of 2014.
Our current outlook is for the economy to strengthen modestly this year.
Last year's strong crops should provide opportunity for ag products in the second quarter with anticipated strength in both domestic and export grain markets.
2014 crop yields will be dependent on the weather.
In food and refrigerator we expect growth in import beer but the draught in California could create a headwind for tomato paste and canned goods.
Automotive market fundamentals remain strong with demands for new vehicles easy access to financing low interest rates and low fuel prices all expected to drive increased sales.
We should see finished vehicle volume rebound in the second quarter as continue to recover from the winter weather.
Most of our chemicals markets should remain solid throughout 2014.
Crude by rail will continue to be impacted by spreads a growing gulf crude supply and increased pipeline capacity.
Lower inventories will continue to be a driver for our coal business in the second quarter.
Weather conditions in summer will influence how things shape up for the full year.
Industrial products should continue to benefit from shale related activity with increased drilling supporting growth in frac sand and pipe shipments.
Housing starts were off to a slow start in 2014 but they are still projected to exceed 1 million units which we anticipate will drive demand for lumber shipments and we think the strength in construction products will continue.
Highway conversions and new product offerings should continue to drive growth in domestic Intermodal.
International Intermodal should benefit from a continued improving economy and strengthening housing market.
For the full year our strong value preposition and diverse franchise will again support business development efforts across our broad portfolio business.
Assuming the economy cooperates we expect to deliver profitable revenue growth yet again in 2014 driven by continued volume growth and corporation's gains.
With that I'll turn in over to Lance.
Thanks Eric and good morning.
I'll start with our safety performance which is the foundation of our operations.
The first quarter of 2014 reportable injury rate improved 3% versus 2013.
Progress achieved through our comprehensive safety strategy the number of severe injuries during the quarter declined to a record low reflecting our work to reduce the risk of critical incidents our team's commitment to the Courage to Care and the maturation of our total safety culture.
Moving to rail equipment incidents or derailments our first quarter reportable rate finished up 7% versus the quarterly record set in 2013.
However the absolute number of incidents including those that do not meet the regulatory reportable threshold decreased to a record lows in each of the first three months of this year.
Looking forward we expect continued improvement from investments that harden our infrastructure expand advanced defect detection technology and enhance our ability to find and address risks.
In public safety our grade crossing incident rate improvement slightly versus 2013.
Driver behaviour continues to be a critical element.
To make continued progress we're focussed on improving or closing high risk crossings and reinforcing public awareness.
Severe winter weather conditions were a headwind to our safety performance during the quarter most notably where our employees faced the brunt of below zero temperatures and record snowfall.
Even so the team did a tremendous job addressing the risks.
In addition to impacting safety the most severe winter weather we've faced in quite a few years materially impacted our first quarter network performance.
The impact was evident in the upper Midwest and at interchange points with other carriers particularly in Chicago.
Extremely cold temperatures and significant snowfall disrupted operations by limiting train size curtailing switching activity reducing the mobility to mobilize crews to crew load change locations elongating equipment cycles and reducing fuel efficiency.
Our dedicated employees did a great job battling difficult conditions while maintaining open channels of communication with customers and our interchange partners as we managed through the challenge.
We responded by leveraging the unique value of Union Pacific.
We adjusted transportation plans to use alternative switching yards and gateways.
We realigned resources to where they were needed most and employed the use of our surge capacity.
This included increasing our active locomotive fleet by about 600 units since last fall and increasing our active TE&amp;Y workforce by roughly 550 since January.
While we mitigated a fair amount of winters impact our service performance fell short of our expectations and we are working hard to achieve a rapid and full recovery.
And while that recovery is now underway most of our first quarter operating performance metrics reflect the winter's impact.
Velocity declined 7% as adverse conditions generated an 80% increase in the number of days with major service interruptions.
These interruptions temporarily reduced operating capacity during the quarter particularly in the northern region.
The interruptions in subsequent limits on network capacity also drove a decline in our service delivery index a measure which gauges how well we are meeting overall customer commitments.
On a brighter note we were able to maintain local service within a decent range registering a 93.1% industry spot and pool.
This metric which measures the delivering or pulling of a car to or from a customer also reflects the tighter service commitments we introduced this year.
In addition to surge resources infrastructure investments have also improved our ability to recover after incidents reducing their impact on the network.
For 2014 we plan to invest around $3.9 billion which is up about $300 million from our 2013 spend.
We're purchasing 200 locomotives this year compared to a 100 last year impart due to future volume growth assumptions as well as our tier 4 emission strategy.
We continue to invest in capacity across our network including new capacity in the upper Midwest and in the South that support expected growth.
And speaking of unit volume growth for the first time in several years we saw solid and relatively balanced regional volume growth.
While severe weather impacted our ability to fully leverage that volume we were still able to realize meaningful productivity gains.
For example the increase in regional TE&amp;Y employees was less than our unit growth despite the surge of crews we deployed in the North.
Freight cart dwell was up 12% for the quarter driven by a 36% weather related increase in the Northern region.
On a more positive note we held locomotive productivity flat in the face of the headwinds.
Our longer term trend of improving locomotive reliability coupled with effective utilization plans should register continued gains going forward.
Overall we generated reasonable productivity improvement as our men and women applied their expertise to improve safety service and efficiency using the UP way.
Our primary focus was serving our customers and keeping our employees safe during difficult operating conditions.
The net result was a 2 percentage point improvement in operating ratio something our team is very proud of achieving in a very difficult quarter.
In summary our full year operating outlook for 2014 remains positive.
We are confident we are on a path for restoring operations back to normal.
We're focussed on reducing variability in the network to drive service improvements and we've made progress during the past few weeks.
We will continue to work closely with our interchange partners as our recovery and that of the entire rail industry is conditioned upon interchanged fluidity.
And as performance improves and as demand dictates we'll adjust our resource levels accordingly including moving locomotives back into storage.
We expect to generate record safety results on our way to an incident free environment as network performance improves and we utilize resources more efficiently our ability to leverage unit growth that generates solid productivity will improve and we will continue to make smart capital investments that generate attractive returns by increasing capacity and high volume quarters while also supporting our safety service and productivity initiatives.
As a result we'll provide customers with a value preposition that supports growth with high levels of service.
All combined it translates into increased returns for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
Let's start with the recap of our first quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 7% to an all time record of more than $5.6 billion driven by strong volume growth and solid core pricing.
Operating expense totalled nearly $3.8 billion increasing 3% over last year.
Expenses include about $35 million or roughly $0.05 per share of cost associated with the severe weather conditions in the quarter.
Operating income grew 14% to more than $1.8 billion hitting a best ever mark for the first quarter.
Below the line other income totalled $38 million down 5% from 2013.
Interest expense of $ 133 million was up 4% compared to the previous year primarily driven by new debt issuances at the beginning to 2014.
Income tax expense increased to $671 million driven primarily by higher pre-tax earnings.
Net income grew 14% versus 2013.
While the outstanding share balance declined 3% as a result of our continued share repurchase activity.
These results combined to produce a best ever first quarter earnings of $2.38 per share up 17% versus 2013.
Turning to our top line freight revenue grew 6% to our first quarter record of just under $5.3 billion driven primarily by 5% volume growth.
Lower fuel prices and business mix each drove about a half point decline in our average revenue per car.
Both in our grain and frac sands volumes were positive mix drivers but were more than offset by negative mix in automotive and coal.
Eric just pointed out the increases in lower ARC auto parts versus the decrease in finished vehicle volumes which accounts for the negative mix in automotive.
As per coal we did see the benefit of higher ARC volumes including our prior year re-price legacy business however this was more than offset by increases in lower ARC shorter haul movements.
Increased Intermodal and waste shipments also contributed to the negative mix.
Core pricing gains totalled slightly over 2% continuing our pricing strategy of outpacing inflation.
Slide 21 provides more detail on our core pricing trends in 2014.
As you recall 2014 is a legacy light year.
So we will not see the point and a half of legacy benefits which we saw in 2013.
We're also seeing the impact of lower inflation on that portion of our business that is tied to inflation escalators primarily All-LF.
The type table at the bottom of the slide takes a closer look at the quarterly All-LF escalator.
As you can see it rebounded only slightly from negative territory in the fourth quarter last year.
While pricing is never easy we continue to see solid core pricing gains above inflation on the business that we can touch in the marketplace today.
Keep in mind also that the positive mix impact of new business or business returning to Union Pacific franchise is reflected in our margin gains but is not added to our core price calculation.
We continue to be as focused as ever on pricing to market at rates that earn a fair and re-investible return.
Moving on to the expense side Slide 22 provides a summary of our compensation and benefits expense which increased 3% compared to 2013.
Higher volumes inflation and weather were the primary drivers offset by productivity realized by leveraging the volume growth.
Total TE&amp;Y increased slightly but not at the same rate as our volume growth.
However this increase was more than offset by a decrease in employees associated with capital projects for the quarter when compared to 2013.
For the remainder of the year we would expect to see compensation and benefits expense to grow but this will be largely dependent on how volume plays out.
In addition we still expect to see labour inflation come in under 2% for the full year.
Turning to the next slide fuel expense totalled $921 million up 2% when compared to 2013 driven primarily by higher GTMs associated with increased volumes.
Our fuel consumption rate was essentially flat on a year-over-year basis with the weather having come negative impact.
Total fuel expense was tempered by a 3% year-over-year decline in average diesel fuel prices.
Moving on to the other expense categories purchase service and materials expense increased 9% to $607 million due to volume related subsidiary contract expenses higher locomotive and freight car material costs and crude transportation and lodging costs.
Depreciation expense was $464 million up 7% compared to 2013 consistent with our prior guidance.
Looking ahead we now expect depreciation to be up 7% to 8% this year.
Slide 25 summarizes the remaining two expense categories.
Equipment and other rent expense totalled $312 million which was flat when compared to 2013.
Higher freight car rental expenses was offset by lower container lease costs.
Other expenses came in at $226 million down $11 million versus last year.
Higher utility expense was more than offset by a year-over-year improvement in our freight and equipment damage costs as well as lower environmental and personal injury expenses.
For 2014 we expect the other expense line to increase between 5% and 10% for the full year excluding any unusual items.
Turning to our operating ratio performance.
Pricing the business at re-investible levels and moving it safely and efficiently continues to drive results.
We achieved a record first quarter operating ratio of 67.1% improving two points when compared to 2013.
Longer term we remain committed to achieving an operating ratio below 65% before 2017.
We also remain committed to achieving strong cash generation and improving overall financial returns.
Turning now to our cash flow.
In the first quarter cash from operations increased to almost $1.8 billion.
You'll recall that we expect the headwind of about $400 million this year due to tax payments associated with prior years' bonus depreciation.
These payments will be reflected in subsequent quarters.
We invested about $900 million this quarter in cash capital investments and also returned $363 million in dividend payment to our shareholders.
Also in keeping our commitment to achieve a dividend pay-out range of 30% to 35% we increased our declared dividend per share by 32% on a year-over-year basis.
Taking a look at the balance sheet we issued $1 billion of new debt in January bringing our adjusted debt balance to $13.3 billion at quarter end.
This takes our adjusted debt to cap ratio to 38.4% up from 37.6% at yearend '13.
We remain committed to achieving an adjusted debt to cap ratio of approximately 40% and a debt to EBITDA ratio of about 1.5 by yearend.
We feel our current cash outlook positions us well to execute our cash allocation strategy.
Our record profitability and strong cash generation enable us to continue to fund our strong capital program and grow shareholder returns.
In addition we continue to make opportunistic share repurchases which play an important role in our balanced approach to cash allocation.
As you may recall our new repurchased authorization of up to 60 million shares over a four-year time period went into effect January 1st of this year.
Under this new authority we bought back 3.8 million shares totalling $683 million in the first quarter.
This brings accumulative share repurchases since 2007 to $110 million shares.
Combining dividend payments and share repurchases we returned over $1 billion to our shareholders in the first quarter.
It represents roughly 45% increase over 2013 clearly demonstrating our commitment to increasing shareholder value.
So that's a recap of the first quarter result.
As we look to the remainder of the year its favourable economy and some help from the weather will combine with our commitment on core pricing above inflation and our on-going productivity initiatives to produced continued margin improvement and record financial results.
With that I'll turn it back to Jack.
Okay.
Thanks Rob.
As we put this winter behind us we're off to a good start for the year.
As always there's going to be some challenges ahead.
But we also see opportunity.
In the weeks ahead we'll be focused on restoring the fluidity of our network after the winter slowdown.
We're absolutely committed to pursuing the excellent service our customers expect and deserve.
It's a cornerstone of our on-going success.
Our value proposition to our customers depends on it.
Strong service goes hand in hand with improvements in network in asset utilization that are so critical to our future.
Another potential challenge for the entire industry is the uncertain regulatory environment which is being played out in Washington D.C.
Canada and Mexico.
We're watching things closely on all fronts making sure that regulators truly understand the importance of a healthy growing rail industry.
We're also watching the weather and the economy very closely.
There's still a lot of year ahead of us so we'll have to see how the summer burn plays out for coal demand and how the 2014 crops will fair everything from planning through harvest.
As far as the economy goes a lot can change between now and the end of the year.
But at this point we're seeing some signs of gradual economic improvement.
And we're encouraged by the opportunities it presents.
With the power and the potential of the Union Pacific franchise we'll leverage these opportunities to drive record financial performance and shareholder returns this year and in the years' to come.
So with that let's get started and open it up for your questions.
Thank you.
We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from the line of Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
So I wanted to just first ask about the yields particularly on the auto and coal side.
So if I'm understanding this right as finished vehicles start to grow again as whether it gets better shall we start thinking about auto yields growing again? And then on the coal side with yields down 4% year-over-year they were just so strong in first quarter last year up 16% was there anything unusual like any liquidated damages last year that you didn't have this year that's driving that? Because I'm just not sure how to model coal yields going forward.
Yes.
Scott let me talk about the autos first.
As Eric mentioned in his comments there was a process changed and affected some per diem treatment on some containers.
It basically accounts for all of the decline in the autos' arc.
On top of that then as he also pointed out the mid shift of finished vehicles and more auto parts also had an impact on arc.
So we dont give guidance on what the mix is going to look like or what the arc is going to look like by commodity line and we don't do it by the way as a company.
But directionally yes if we see growth in finished vehicles outpacing the growth in auto parts you would expect that trend to move in that direction.
We're not giving that specific guidance but you're thinking about it right.
On the coal our coal arc was down 4% roughly half of that was driven by mix.
I mean your traditional mix.
If you might see that's a great movement of shorter haul coal moves and less shipments of the higher.
In some cases repriced coal business.
And the other half was made up of lower fuel prices drove lower average every car on the arc line.
And year-over-year you're exactly right there was a small as you recall we pointed out.
It was roughly $15 million of liquidity.
The damage is last year that did not repeat this year.
That at this point I don't see that our trend is continuing throughout the year.
So that had a little bit of an impact on our coal arc line as well.
And that piece was about 1.5 if you will of the 1.5% of the 4% decline.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then I just wanted to take a shot at the long-term margin guidance.
So if I look at historically at the first quarter OR and then the full year OR the full year typically is about three to four points better than the first quarter and you had weather in 1Q.
I mean it feels like we're on a run rate this year around 64% for the OR.
And that's just so much -- so different than the sub-65 in 2017.
So I'm not sure that if the long-term guidance is just really still or is there something that you're telling us that we need to be thinking about or worried about the next three quarters that's going to dramatically change the trajectory margins.
Hey Scott our guidance is below 65 before 2017 not in 2017.
Rob why don't you fill in the blanks on that? Yes.
Scott I mean we hope you're right.
I mean there's a lot of things that have to play out.
I mean we certainly hope for the economy cooperates fuel prices as you've heard us speak many times.
It can have an impact directly on the margins and the operating ratio.
So as we've said all along on this financial improvement journey over the last decade we're not looking at the sub-65% as an endpoint and we're not going to slowdown.
We're going to get there safely and efficiently as we can.
And if all the stars line the economy cooperates and we move in direction that we hope everything happens we get there as soon as we can.
But our best look at this point in time is that it looks to us like it's sometime before 2017.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Maybe just a quick question on the volume pace as you came out of the first quarter things obviously ramping up.
It seems like there was probably some pent up demand here that's carried into the second quarter.
How do we think about sort of how long that last and maybe the pace of activity here? And how much is sort of still yet to be moved and wants to be moved and kind of when can the catch up do you think? Yes.
I think you're exactly right Chris.
I think as we move towards the end of the quarter we were catching up from some of the issues in the early quarter.
But our volume outlook is still fairly decent for the year.
So Eric you want to  Yes.
Chris as Jack said clearly there were some catch up particularly when you think about the difficulties that the winter had on the automotive business.
And then deep in coal utilities there was a strong coal burn and so there was some catch up there.
You can also think about our grain business and the grain harvest.
There's a natural processing in the first quarter shipping the record corn harvest that we had in the fourth quarter.
But like Jack said I'm pretty optimistic about a slowly-strengthening economy for the balance of the year.
Slowly strengthening economy across our book of business will have positive impacts.
Plus we continue to have a strong valued proposition.
And so we're optimistic for the balance of the year.
That's great.
That's very helpful.
And on the coal side when you think about the inventories of the utilities that you're serving relative to the length of haul differences that I think showed up here in the first quarter how should we think about that? Is there any imbalance there we might suggest you have stronger volumes continuing to the shorter length of haul utilities? Any sort of color you could give there would be helpful.
Yes I would say this.
Those kind of balance in and out.
Inventories are quite low.
As you probably know there are about 21 days below what would be considered normal.
So they're quite low.
But there's no kind of imbalance between short and long haul that would have a mix change for the future.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much for the time.
I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Hoexter with Bank of America.
Please proceed with your question.
Great.
Good morning.
Great job working through the weather.
Just a follow up on the short haul freight that you've gained it seems like a lot impacting the mix.
Can you talk if there's any long-term impact on margins? And really is this long-term business or is this because some competitors are having infrastructure issues as they fix that some of that reverts back to a different network or is this more permanent business in nature? Yes.
It really kind of depends on the individual markets Ken.
For instance the short haul move that Eric referenced on the waste product is a customer of ours that just historically last year had moved for nine months and this year really picked up a volume in the first.
So that's kind of an on-going issue for us.
Rob do you want to -- do you have any more with the  Yes.
Can I just say -- I mean your question is heading right on the reason why you heard me many many times say we're not going to get guide this fund on average revenue per car because mix is always a part of our business.
And when you look as diverse as our franchise is as diverse as all of our commodity groups are mix is rather normal.
But as you also are questioning in terms of the margin just because something has a short haul lower average revenue per car doesn't mean it has a lower margin.
So we're not afraid of that at all.
We're pricing and moving the business as efficiently as we can driving our margins which in fact we've done.
We did that in the first quarter even with this negative mix impact.
So mix will always be a part of our business but we're focused on improving our margins regardless of the length of haul.
As Rob said if we can get our re-investability threshold met we're happy to take the business.
That's great insight.
Thanks.
Just a follow up on the locomotive side and I guess demand side overall.
You noted demand kind of creeping in a little bit on a gradual improvement.
If we start seeing I guess a faster pace of improvement what's your thoughts on your ability to handle it to take the capacity access locomotives your infrastructure's ability to handle it? Maybe it's a Lance questions in terms of scalability of the infrastructure and available capacity.
Absolutely.
Lance? Sure.
So Ken we feel pretty good about fluidly handing the volume that Eric is bringing on for the network.
If you think about where we are right now the first quarter was what 179 078 car loads.
We've publicly said we think our network can handle 195 000 plus with a very good excellent service product.
So we're looking forward to that volume.
Of course it's dependent to some degree on exactly where it shows up.
But you know we've been putting capacity into the network in anticipation of that and we feel pretty good about handling the volume.
And our first quarter was pretty balanced so we like that.
And similarity access to locomotives to handle that? Is that infrastructure still available? It is.
If you think about how many locomotives we have left in surge right now.
It's a little over 300.
That's bearing in mind that we brought in what was at 600 locomotives since the fall with a large portion those not driven by volume but instead driven by trying to overcome winter's impact.
So we've got surgery resources that will be able to handle it.
So as we spin up volume and our operating stats improve we'll actually be seeking some power out of the network and putting it back in storage.
That's right.
Appreciate the time.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Bill Greene of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi there.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Rob I wanted to ask you about pricing.
When we see this inflation metrics start to rise a bit is it logical to think that the core pricing headline starts to rise as well? Is it as simple as that or is there another element though that you have to keep in mind? I mean that part of business that is tied to the All-LF and there were timing differences.
And as you've heard us comment many times they're not all the same.
Those contracts and those pieces of our business that are tied to the All-LF have different timeframes of when they trigger.
So you pick that into consideration.
But directionally if inflation increases and as All-LF in fact reflects that that part of business that is tied to All-LF will increase.
Yes.
Right.
And then as we look  next year is a legacy.
It's got more legacy in it right? So as we look to next year this should have a pretty good directional trend.
Yes next year Bill as you've heard us say several times we've got roughly $300 million of revenue which tends to be sort of frontend a business that we will compete for in the marketplace.
But it's about $300 million of legacy revenue next year.
Right.
And then on inflation I think in the past you've talked about seeking to offset it with productivity.
But if it's going to run this low is there a chance that our productivity actually causes our -- so not the cost-related to the volume growth but rather just a fix cost based in the productivity.
Can that actually cost the number to go down? Lance could comment on this as well.
But I would say potentially.
Again as what you're referring to Bill as you know is we set the price the business to market achieve a successful above inflation sort of pricing environment.
And then in addition to that offset and we challenge ourselves to offset all.
But if we hit 50% of offsetting inflation through productivity that's a great model.
And to your point we're in a lower inflation area environment and a positive volume environment that gives us more options to do as well as we can on that.
That's perfect.
Rob is absolutely right.
Mirroring what Rob says about our drive to an improved OR there's -- we don't set a limit as just offset inflation.
We look for efficiency and productivity everyday through the UP way.
That's great.
Thank you so much for your time.
And next question comes from the line of Jason Seidl of Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go over with your question.
Good morning guys.
It's been well publicized that your competitors had some major major service issues and it seems like you guys probably got some freight from them.
How much do that really stress the system in the first quarter when you saw on top of the weather and everything else? Jason if you look at our issues in the first quarter it was 99% winter.
The additional volume and whatever we've taken on either of our own bringing on to the network or anything that might have been diverted on a temporary or permanent basis basically just would have been handled easily by our resources or infrastructure of the investments we've made in the past.
So it did not -- the additional business did not stress our network.
It was just really the impact of winter weather and the impact that it had not only on Union Pacific but broad-based throughout the industry on our interchange partners.
Okay.
And Jack this is a broader question.
I asked this on another call the other day.
We've had issues with Chicago as an interchange in the real network the entire topic been an analyst.
I mean obviously it was great exacerbated this quarter with winter weather.
And I know there's been projects around like they create a project to try to improve that.
What's really just holding the rail in street back from all giving together and really just trying to fix this interchange once and for all? Because it seems like this is something that would benefit sixth or the seventh class once going forward.
My perspective on that Jason is Create still is a blueprint for how we can significantly improve the throughput in the Chicago area.
But each railroad has its own issues that's stealing with as well.
And so in our world we're making investments.
We're planning.
We're working together having the centralized operating controlled group in Chicago help to mitigate some of the winter weather.
But there's lessons learned here.
And I'm sure that as we come out of this first quarter experience we'll learn from that the industry will learn from that.
We spend a lot of time working with our interchange partners on throughput and volumes and things like that how can we handle things more fluidly our ability to divert to different gateways depending on the individual interchange partner those kinds of things.
So I think there'll be lessons learned from this.
But I still fundamentally think the investment and the strategy identified and Create holds a lot of potential for us.
Lance what do you think? Yes.
Absolutely Jack.
And there's something that the participants in Create have been public about and that is since the start of Create we've taken a half a day out of the time it takes for a car to transfer through Chicago side to side end to end which is real progress.
It's down by about a third.
And this year's winter was epic.
And in the absence of Create and the Chicago Planning Group and the coordination that the interchange railroads undertook it would have been a much worse outcome.
Clearly lessons learned but it was effective.
And Lance what do you think that number can come to? You said it's down by a third.
I mean will it keep down by  No.
So think about it like this.
We've got 17 capital projects already in place complete.
There are 20 are in designer underway and so each one of those is going to help.
So there's still fair amount of upside in terms of reducing the time it takes cars contributors.
Okay.
Jim I really appreciate the time as always.
Thanks Jason.
Our next question comes from the line of John Larkin with Stifel.
Please go ahead with your question.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Hey good morning gentlemen.
Good morning John.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to focus on the real cost escalator chart that was in Rob's actually in the presentation.
And if you look back at the trailing four quarters that's pretty tampered inflation.
And I would have thought with the labor cost the escalation built in your contracts that certainly overtime you would've seen more than an average of less than one which I think it probably works out to be there.
Anything that's going on there that were missing? And would you expect that to continue over the next four quarters? Yes John.
I think you're going to see it continue to be low for the next four quarters.
And if you recall that our labor inflation which as you know the way the All-LF works is a market basket of inputs from the industry.
But the labor inflation for us we think it's going to be less than 2% this year.
So that is a big piece of what's in there.
And so it is driving and has been for quite some time now the reduction in that All-LF number.
So it lines up and overtime it does what it's intended to do.
From quarter to quarter there might be some timing issues.
But it's done its job over multiple quarter and multiyear period.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just a follow-on on the timing of the restoration of complete fluidity in and around Chicago in the northern -- into the network.
One of the executives giving testimony at the STB last week suggested that Chicago should be back in normal completely within four to six weeks.
Is that in keeping with kind of your expectations? And will there be any meaningful impact on the EPS line during that restoration period? Hey Lance why don't you handle the outlook? Yes.
Okay John.
So we are very encouraged by what we see happening on our network right now.
We're confident that sometime in the second quarter we will be back to normal.
We're working to make that as soon as possible.
And in terms of Chicago interchange that's a difficult question for me to answer because it's dependent on how quickly the networks of interchange railroads come up to speed.
What we see right now is real solid improvement as we've exited winter.
Yes.
So we're hoping it won't be a material.
You won't see a lot of it in the second quarter from a cost perspective.
But it really depends on how it plays itself out.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Rob Salmon of Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Rob with regards to the incremental margins as I'm taking a step back and kind of listening to what I heard on the call it's fairly a mix work against you guys.
There's a lot of incremental cause associated with winter weather which meant the network wasn't -- probably wasn't running as full as it could in constrained train lengths.
Should I think about the Q1 64% incremental margin as being a low for the year and expanding from there? Rob as you know we don't give that level of guidance.
But as you heard me say many times for us to get from where we are today to our sub-65 and we're not going to slow down to get there in time.
We get there as efficiently as we can.
As soon as we're going to get 50% kind of number on incremental margins from here to there there can be lumpiness from quarter to quarter depending on volumes of weather and other issue fuel prices and other issues.
So you know we're going to keep doing as well as we can.
But I've shied away from getting specific quarterly guidance on that incremental margin number other than to get to our sub-65 we've got to continue to make good progress.
Okay.
That's right.
But we should think about the network running more fluidly and that should obviously help overall operational performance I would imagine.
That would be a plus.
Absolutely.
And then we'll see what volume -- our volume actually plays out.
Yes.
It's fair.
I'm not sure if this question should be directed towards Lance or towards Eric.
I noticed in the network productivity section one of the slides.
You guys were calling out about 4% volume growth in the north.
And as recently as a couple of quarters that it had been down on a year-over-year basis clearly your primary competitor in the west has been having a lot of challenges in that region.
It looks like the TE&amp;Y headcount it increased about 6% year-over-year.
Is this 6% growth with regard to expectations for future volume growth are just handling current traffic? And on a side note of that can you give us a sense if you guys are seeing incremental competitive wins in the north what type of traffic that's coming on if it's coming on on the manifest network or unit train network? Yes I think what you saw in the TE&amp;Y buildup of 6% Rob was basically the impact of winter where we flooded the northern region with extra labor to help us work our way through the winter process.
And it's not necessarily a reflection of what's happening in the north on an ongoing basis.
Lance you want to -- is that okay? Yes that's perfect.
Yes yes.
And then the other thing is when you think about our northern region think about that's where the grain is that's where frac sand is and our model is sitting there and also our coal business.
And so those were all some fairly decent volume gains just intrinsic in the business itself.
Appreciate the color.
It sounds like more unit train there.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Allison Landry from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I just wanted to follow up with a question on coal and specifically the growth in Colorado Utah coal versus Southern Powder River Basin.
So you mentioned 13% tonnage growth in Colorado and 2% in SPRB.
Was that a function of whether or easy comps? How do we think about sort of the relative tonnage growth with the respect of these two origins for the balance of the year? Okay Eric? Yes tonnage.
When you think about Colorado-Utah coal there was some easy comps year over year.
We do continue to expect in the outlook to see a Colorado-Utah coal being a good source for export coal as the export coal opportunity strengthen in the future.
But I think if you think about it going forward Southern Powder River Basin growth will probably outpace Colorado-Utah growth going forward in terms of upside opportunity.
Okay.
And is it fair to say that the SPRB has a longer length of haul? That depends on the origin and destination pair.
But that's probably not an unreasonable expectation.
But it depends on the origin of destination pair.
Got it.
Okay.
And then just -- I have a couple of questions on the frac sand business.
You mentioned the volumes were up over 20% in the quarter.
So I was wondering if you talk a little bit about the sustainability of this pace of growth over the next couple of years as new minds continue to come online in Wisconsin.
And then could you give us some sense of how much of the frac business you are originating and terminating on your own minds? And maybe what shales you're delivering the most active? Yes.
We're very excited about our frac sand franchise.
We think we have the premier origination franchise and we think a significant portion of the new mines that are coming online in the Wisconsin Minnesota Illinois region actually are coming on.
Our franchise at least access our franchise.
So we're pretty optimistic about the longevity and the outlook from that standpoint.
At the end of the day it's really going to be drilling that really drives the consumption of frac sand and the drilling trends in terms of longer mines longer drilling deeper drilling deeper horizontal more fracing all are pointing to significant continued growth in frac sand consumption on those the really interesting friends in Texas in particular for Permian basin and Eagle Ford basin I think in January I dont know the February March numbers have come up but in January Texas had an all-time record of production of oil in terms of record just going back to the early 80s.
So as long as those drilling trends continue you'll see the frac sand demand continue and we have a premier frac sand franchise.
And I would imagine that has a pretty good length of haul from Wisconsin to Texas.
Is that correct? Turbos [ph] is north south its not as long as some east west moves but it is a pretty good part of our franchise.
Our next question comes from the line of Brandon Oglenski with Barclays.
Rob I wanted to come back to the discussion on pricing.
Because I feel like there's a lot of maybe misunderstanding around the core pricing gains.
Obviously you had higher levels of gains last year but actually we're seeing better margin expansion this quarter.
Can you just expand on your comment about how the new and incremental business is not necessarily captured in your metrics? Yeah I mean you have heard me say this many times but the way we calculate price at Union Pacific is how much price do we yield in a particular time period against our entire book of business.
I am very proud of the way we calculate it because its the most conservative way of looking at it.
What I pointed is that so what that means that if we bring on a new piece of business or business that we haven't had for over a year lets say that business might come on at great margins of course were very focused on bringing on at the right margins at the market level pricing.
But it wouldnt show up in the new price I mean it wouldnt show up in the year-over-year calculation of price.
So youre exactly right when we point out that our pricing was up 2% and all the headwinds we faced low legacy number light and All-LF impact the reason that we were able to expand our margins is we were able to leverage the business leverage the new volumes that came on and as new business came on we are confident we are pricing it right but it doesnt show up in the pricing number but it shows up in our margins.
And that's what we should really be focused on to see how you are delivering on the pricing front right? I mean clearly pricing is a tool along with productivity and other things that we do but at the end of the day margin expansion is clearly the ultimate driver the ultimate answer.
Hopefully I can just get one follow-up in here for Lance.
Lance I think you did state that the network is designed for 190 000 195 000 units I believe.
That's about 5% from where you've been running the last few weeks.
Does that signal that we need a lot more CapEx going forward? Or are there any structural constraints in the network that make it tough to get to 200 000? No Brandon what we typically say is 195 200 000 several days we could handle fluidly and we say that because in 2006 we peaked at a number about like that very different service product at that time and since then we improved processes weve invested capital we have more surge capacity and that's what gives us the confidence level.
From the point of view of handling the volume that Erics team is bringing on right now and for the rest of the year absent some acute areas where maybe we've got a very specific capacity constraint we feel very good about being able to satisfy that with a high service product.
Our next question is from the line of Bascome Majors with Susquehanna.
There's a lot of regulatory balls in the air the STB particularly relative to just a few months ago.
And you also mentioned some things developing in Canada and Mexico earlier in your comments.
I was just hoping if you look at these all at once could you help frame what in your mind is the greatest long-term concern for you? And perhaps additionally what's more immediate that you're looking at today that could impact you fairly soon? Thats a fairly broad question and so we treat each of those as a very serious issue and we look at them very carefully and closely.
So were watching what's happening with Needling [ph] proposals the service hearings the Canadian directed agricultural equipments the Mexico reform.
So in each of those cases we have teams of people looking at working very hard to ensure as I said in my opening remarks that everyone understands the importance of having a viable growing and healthy rail system thats paid for by private investment and not tax share dollars.
So while we consider each one of those to be a very serious and concerning development it also gives us the opportunity to position all of the great things that not only Union Pacific but the entire rail industry has done by the constant reinvestment and investment of capital dollars to build the transportation infrastructure in this country and actually throughout North America that there is today.
So we take them all one by one if you look at the new discussion around revenue adequacy its going to be an opportunity for us to point out the benefits of whats happened so far the investment thats been made the importance of having decisions that were going to change things to recognize replacement costs those kinds of things.
The service hearings I think well I think could position us well to tell the story of how even though it was a difficult quarter for the industry the capital investment made it a lot better than it probably would've been if it had happened five or 10 years ago.
In Mexico we've been working very hard to make sure the government understands the importance in the developments and the volumes that have improved since we took on our concession in partnership with the FXE and that if they look at the throughput and the development of transportation within the country it has certainly helped to grow the Mexico economy.
If you look at all the investment from the automotive industry and things like that.
So we look at these as every one of them well it's a serious issue if it were to go it right give us a great opportunity to talk about all the good things that have happened.
And so were not afraid of them were willing to step up to the plate and participate each and every one of them to make sure our story gets told.
Our next question is from the line of Walter Spracklin of RBC Capital Markets.
I guess my first question here is for Lance.
With all the difficulty you had in the winter weather you still managed to keep your headcount under good control here and didn't really need to resource up significantly to add any redundancy.
So that's quite impressive.
But I'm just wondering is that reflective of what could've been a lower headcount if you didn't have the weather? How should we look at your headcount as you go through the year and the year this year? So Walter we think about headcount resourcing for the volume that shows up where it shows up so that we can maintain an excellent service product.
I wont look backwards and guess that what it would've been if winter hadnt happened.
Going forward the right way to think about our headcount is exactly as Rob states with productivity we should be able to keep headcount growth lower than volume growth and I feel pretty confident we are going to be able to do that.
So there is no -- nothing that distorted that in the first quarter that you're going to significantly drop headcount now in the second quarter or anything like that? Thats correct.
Second question now.
As you alluded to in a number of different ways in your ag business lot of volatility.
You mentioned weather you mentioned related to that the significant drought from last year the unpredictability of that.
If we look at the current trends in the first quarter carloads it seems to be off to a very good start not only on a comp basis as an easy comp basis but also on an absolute basis.
I'm just curious if as we model this out in future years given how important the ag business is when we look back at historical average levels be it on carload or overall crop size is there any reason why your carload volumes would be any different from an average run rate level historically or is that how we should look at it? Might we need to revert our 2015 ag estimates downwards to reflect perhaps a very healthy 2014 haul? Walter as you recall last year or 2012 going into 2013 there was the drought which significantly impacted our volumes last year the same time first quarter.
So if you look at year-over-year the fact that there was a record corn harvest and harvest started in October and the volumes are moving through the first quarter of this year clearly is the primary driver behind the volumes that we are seeing.
There were some as we said stress in the grain network on our competitors so there was some small portion of incremental volumes we had assisting the market due to that those challenges that they had.
But again that surrounding the bigger issue was the record corn harvest was a pretty good bean harvest pretty good wheat harvest and in terms of going forward in the future again the weather will determine the yields will determine the production and that will determine the volumes that move during harvest season.
If I could sneak one last one in here on the regulatory standpoint.
I heard all your commentary.
Perhaps you could give us if to the extent you know it the next few catalysts for any potential changes or regulatory -- in other words are we going to stay within the confines of the STB and their actions? Or could there be any other occurrences that might impact the STBs any changes the STB might make on the regulatory front? At this point in time as we look at it the regulatory model is based on railroads being allowed to earn their rate of return and be revenue adequate.
And we don't see a lot on the legislative front there is the railroad antitrust bill that has been introduced but has seen no action and so we haven't really seen a lot on the regulatory front other than what's happening in the STB and actually as we look at the STB hearings they are taking a very measured and thoughtful approach to it.
So we are in good shape.
Our next question is from the line of Justin Long of Stephens.
We've been hearing a lot lately about a tightening truckload environment.
And you would imagine this should bode well for intermodal pricing as we progress throughout the year.
Do think you will be in a position to get better intermodal pricing in 2014 versus what you've seen the past few years? As we said we continue to price the market and we are continuedly focused on taking advantage of strong demand.
As you mentioned the CSA is having an impact on trucking capacity had an impact in the winter because of the safety concerns that probably were was some trucking capacity that self selected themselves out of taking trips on the most difficult portion of the winter weather because of the concern of the risk with CSA.
But we continue to think that the intermodal opportunity is strong trucking capacity is tightening and we continue to think that that's a good outlook for our book of business.
Maybe a follow-up to that.
How much flexibility do you have to move pricing in intermodal? Have you already established your rates for this year or do you have the ability to raise rates throughout 2014 if the market and demand continues to move higher? As we have talked in the past a portion of business is in different segments some in long-term contracts some in one year contracts that rotate or come up throughout the year some in instruments that you can change on a relatively frequent basis.
Our intermodal business has the same kind of profile and as we have opportunities based on demand and market prices we will them.
Next question is coming from the line of Keith Schoonmaker of Morningstar.
My question is for Eric.
Eric your comments remain quite positive on the 2014 economy.
And I want to ask you about chemicals in particular given the sea change in US natural gas economics from fracking.
Would you share any new developments or your expectations for what industries within chemicals might lead rail volume growth? And if you think this will come on next year or further into the future? I think we have said several times in the past that with the relatively low natural gas prices futures is still I think around 450 or something like that.
Youre seeing a lot of plastics development coming on a number of different plants that have been announced for expansion I think we said in the past and in previous earnings releases that most of those will come on in 2016 2017 that we continue to see strong upside opportunity from that.
Our fertilizer business we continue to see a strong upside opportunity in our fertilizer business.
So fertilizers plastics industrial chems we think are long-term positive outlooks.
And I guess just a quick follow-up on the Mexico discussion.
Given this business is handed off to your US assets rather than your own operations in Mexico and I recall the Ferromex ownership stake.
Can you comment on how you believe your franchise would actually be effective if the bill proposed became law? Is this just a bad precedent for other jurisdictions or would this in itself have material impact to UP? I think overall if you look at our franchise the Union Pacific franchise the business is moving into and out of Mexico it's not going to really change materially our ability to deliver goods about to the border and also to have taken from the border and deliver them throughout the US.
You heard us say this before but our interest in this is we don't want to see something that erodes commerce in Mexico and we think one of the unintended consequences of potential bill is that that it would create less commerce in Mexico.
But as you know the only railroad that crosses 6 border crossings in and out of Mexico so we just like to see commerce continue to grow and volumes continue to one across the border both ways and we are ready to handle it.
Next question comes from the line of David Vernon Bernstein Research.
Just two quick questions maybe on the growth outlook.
Eric the intermodal weeklies are looking pretty strong right now.
How much of that is the Santa Teresa opening versus maybe some just straight organic conversion versus share take? So we did open our Santa Teresa facility April 1 of this year and we think that that will be a strong lever for us for that market that market.
I think we talked publicly that that new ramp has about 250 000 less capacity if you think about our domestic intermodal business is 1.6 million units so we are seeing a strong growth with our products and services across-the-board certainly new product offerings from Santa Teresa will add to that.
But we are seeing strong growth across the board.
Should we think that that Santa Teresa opening of that terminal is going to continue this growth through the year and it laps? Or is this more -- I guess I'm trying to figure out of the current strength is more of a temporary thing that should ebb as the weather sort of eases up and other rail service improves or if we should be expecting these higher upper single-digit growth in intermodal going forward? So the current strength is the strength that we are seeing across our book of business when ramp opens up there is a gradual ramp up and there is going to be a gradual ramp up in Santa Teresa.
The current strength in our intermodal business is depending on slowly growing economy and our value proposition and thats an across the board opportunity for our book of business rate.
Maybe just as a separate question.
Are you guys seeing any development of terminals for handling heavy crude-by-rail either in the western specifically California refineries or down in Texas on your network? As we have spoken before there are number of different terminals that are under development both on the West Coast and to the extent also in the Gulf Coast.
Were working actively and part of our strategy is to strengthen franchise we cannot direct when and where crude oil will flow thats determined by strength that our franchise wants to we will ensure we have a franchise that landed when and where at once they flow.
Would you think that western -- those western refineries might have perhaps a little bit of a cost advantage via rail relative to the Gulf? I am not really sure what you are asking when you say cost advantage you mean lower rail costs? Yeah lower just to move from western Canada down to the Western  It will be market based and we will price to take advantage of the value of our franchise whether its going to the west coast or to the Gulf Coast.
The next question comes from the line of Ben Hartford of Robert W.
Baird.
I think a question for Lance.
If I look at cars online cars online are call it 10% to 12% above trough levels of last year.
As we think about volume growth accelerating and the cross current of the network normalizing into the third quarter how should we think about the asset requirements of the network going forward? Can we continue to think about cars online falling as they were through all of last year? Or should we think about those 2013 levels as the trough and now that we do see volume growth accelerate that that growth number should lag but we won't quite pierce and fall below the best levels realized last year? Can you provide some perspective there? Sure Ben as I look at car inventory on our railroad right now the large majority of the growth year-over-year is about winter impact and I am expecting that portion of inventory to ultimately bleed off as were able to interchange it off to other carriers or ultimately get it to a customer on our own railroad.
There is some amount of that growth thats driven by unit volume growth and what I really look at and care about is car productivity as opposed to the absolute inventory number.
The absolute inventory number is important for me as an overall indicator but what we really try to drive is good utilization of the cars that are on us.
The next question comes from the line of Don Broughton of Avondale Partners.
Real quick you talked about wage inflation.
Looking at the comp benefit line obviously wage inflation 2%.
What are the other puts and takes performance bonuses we hope you earn pension tailwinds? What else is going to be pushing and/or pulling that line in 2014? On that line a big offset if you will to wage inflation has been the pension expense pension side of the equation and thats been the reason why I say that our labor line for the full year is expected to be below 2%.
So the wage inflation actually is higher than that it's just that the actual line itself will be -- come in at under 2%?  Thats correct.
Our next question comes from Jeff Kauffman of Buckingham Research.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just one quick one on the locomotive CapEx you spoke about.
With the tier 4 locomotive standards this is the first time I think we're using exhaust gas recirculation to meet the standards and the experience of the truckers with this was we ended up with more expensive engines that were not as efficient.
What are your thoughts on the locomotives post the tier 4 standard and does this change the economics for you in terms of thinking about natural gas as an alternative fuel in the long run for the locomotive fleet? Sure so first thing to note is we have a couple of tier 4 test units that are on us wired up so that we can fully understand with the OEM involved what the economics and what really the overall performance metrics of those units look like.
It is not certain what efficiency impact a tier four locomotive is going to have in relation to a tier 3.
I know the OEMs are working very hard to make fuel consumption rates roughly equivalent and so there's more to follow there.
And in terms of will delta in that make a fundamental difference in the LNG economics? The answer is thats probably a minor impact the major impact is utilization infrastructure costs and couple other elements.
Our next question is from the line of Claire Ouzagareen with Macquarie.
My first question relates to pricing.
Could you clarify for us how much of your book is specifically tied to AII-LF or another inflation cost measure? And how much is able to take advantage of improving demand fundamentals for example in intermodal? I mean roughly a quarter of our business is tied to an escalator AII-LF being the major driver of the escalations that we use.
I would also then add to that Eric responded earlier to the intermodal question of what capability does it to have to take pricing up throughout the year and weve got a mix of long-term contracts weve got a mix of short-term contracts weve got a mix of annual quotes if you will.
So we look to take advantage and move and price to market wherever we can.
We don't give specific guidance by commodity as to how much we can touch with any particular timeframe but across our entire book of business.
We look to price to market where we have the opportunity.
Would you be able to comment to what verticals are offered most opportunity this year in your opinion? No we dont get into that.
And then my second question relates to [indiscernible] rail opportunities specifically tied to the Permian would you be able to share with us what kind of growth or infrastructure development projects you are looking for there to enable it to take advantage of production growth and what kind of commitments you are looking for in the supply chain from a pure capital to developing an area? As we have said previously the Permian basin has great coverage pipeline coverage and that's where most of the production growth has taken in the state of Texas.
So if you look at our crude by rail volumes from the Permian they actually had decreased significantly we have said that in the past.
And they are really nominal and going forward there may be some spot opportunities for crude by rail in the Permian but the Permian has great pipeline coverage we don't expect that to be a driver of any crude by rail volumes going into the future.
It is a driver of our drilling materials volumes like frac sand and pipe.
So you are not contemplating maybe laying some new rail into California refineries or that's more science fiction than feasible future? Yeah so we are as I mentioned before looking at the destination franchise for crude by rail into California.
At this point in time the market is suggesting a lot of that will be sourced from Canada or the Bakken.
There are those in the market we believe that Permian will go to California.
If that happens we will be prepared for it but I think the market today is suggesting majority of crude by rail in California will come from Canada or the Bakken.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Jack Koraleski for closing comments.
Well great thank you everybody for joining us on the call today and we look forward to speaking with you again in July.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Greetings.
Welcome to the Union Pacific Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Jack Koraleski CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you.
Mr.
Koraleski you may now begin.
Thanks Rob and good morning everybody and welcome to Union Pacific Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With me here today in Omaha are Eric Butler our Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; Lance Fritz President and Chief Operating Officer; and Rob Knight our Chief Financial Officer.
This morning we're pleased to report that Union Pacific achieved second quarter earnings of $1.43 per share an increase of 21% compared to the second quarter of 2013 and another quarterly record.
Total volumes were up 8% and the increases were nearly across-the-board.
We saw growth in 5 of our 6 business groups with particular strength in Agricultural Products Intermodal and Industrial Product shipments.
We were pleased to see strong volume growth which combined with solid core pricing drove more than 2-point improvement in our operating ratio to a record 63.5% for the quarter.
On the operating side Mother Nature did finally release her winter grip but we experienced numerous washouts flooding and mudslides which caused disruptions to our network during the quarter.
In this environment increasing velocity and fluidity has been a challenge but we continue to be focused on safely improving network efficiency and service for our customers.
So with that let's get started.
I'll turn it over to Eric.
Thanks Jack.
Good morning.
In the second quarter volume was up 8% compared to 2013 as solid demand across our franchise led to volume gains in 5 of our 6 business groups.
We had strong gains in Agricultural Products Intermodal and Industrial Products and we also saw strength in Automotive and Coal.
In Chemicals declines in crude oil volume were mostly offset by gains in other commodities.
Core price improved around 2.5% which was partially offset by mix that produced a 1.5% improvement in average revenue per car.
Our volume growth and improved average revenue per car combined to drive freight revenue up 10% which set an all-time quarterly record of nearly $5.7 billion.
Let's take a closer look at each of the 6 business groups.
Ag Products led our growth again this quarter.
Volume grew 16% which combined with the 2% improvement in average revenue per car drove revenue growth up 19%.
Strong grain demand continued this quarter with carloads up 43%.
Last year you may remember that we experienced a tight U.S.
corn supply and improved world production which led to lower exports and reductions in domestic demand for livestock feeding.
The strength in U.S.
supply and lower commodity prices this quarter drove strong demand for export feed grain.
Domestic feed grain demand was also strong across most of our franchise.
The one soft spot within grain was wheat where the smaller hard red winter wheat crop led to a slight decline in overall wheat shipments.
Grain products volume was up 8% led by 15% increase in ethanol shipments.
We had a best-ever quarter for ethanol shipments driven by favorable producer margins higher gasoline demand and lower ethanol inventories and DDG shipments grew 33% driven by strong export shipments to Mexico.
Food and refrigerated shipments were up 3% for the quarter.
Import beer volume was up over 20% partially offset by declines in rice exports and lower produce in frozen food shipments.
Automotive revenue was up 2% in the second quarter on a 6% increase in volume.
Average revenue per car was down 4% driven primarily by the previously reported change in the way we handle per diem revenue and also by mix.
Finished vehicles shipments were up 5% this quarter.
North American Automotive production continue to be strong up 4% versus the fourth -- the same quarter in 2013.
Also the sales rebound that started in March continue to gain strength as the second quarter progressed.
On the Parts side volume increased 8% driven again by strong production demand and over-the-road conversions.
Chemicals revenue was up 3% for the quarter with a 4% average revenue per car improvement partially offset by a 1% volume decline.
Industrial Chemicals volume was up 7% driven by demand in a variety of markets such as shale-related drilling; inventory replenishment of de-icing materials after a strong winter demand; and increased demand for chemicals used in nylon production.
Fertilizer shipments were up 2% for the quarter.
Strong export potash demand coupled with the delayed spring planting season in the U.S.
drove the increase.
And crude oil volume declined 24% compared to the second quarter of last year with price spreads again negatively impacting Bakken volume.
Our coal revenue increased 1% on a 1% increase in volume and a/1% improvement in average revenue per car.
Southern Powder River Basin tonnage was down 2% as demand from lower inventories and higher natural gas prices partially offset our previously reported legacy contract loss.
Volume was also impacted by network fluidity challenges.
Colorado/Utah coal tonnage was up 11% benefiting from increased demand in the western part of our network and we continue to see strength from other coal-producing regions where tonnage was up 12% for the quarter.
In our Industrial Products business a 12% increase in volume combined with a 3% improvement in average revenue per car to produce 16% revenue growth.
Nonmetallic minerals led to growth in IT again with volume up 21% for the quarter.
Frac sand used in shale-related drilling drove the increase with shipments up more than 25% versus last year.
Our lumber shipments were up 17% in the quarter.
We were encouraged to see improvement in the housing markets driving continued lumber demand.
Finally construction products shipments were up 15% as demand for aggregates and cement continue to be strong particularly in Texas and California.
Turning to Intermodal.
Revenue was up 16% in the second quarter driven by a 12% increase in volume and 3% improvement in average revenue per unit.
Domestic Intermodal volume was up 12% in the quarter.
New premium services and continued highway conversions contributed to our volume gains.
Our international Intermodal volumes were up 13%.
Imports to West Coast ports rebounded in the second quarter after declining earlier in the year.
We believe some portion of the strength in the second quarter can be attributed to cargo owners advancing shipments ahead of the July expiration of the ILWU contract.
So it is possible that some of our traditional peak international demand has already moved.
Let's take a look at how we see our business shaping up for the second half of 2014.
In Ag Products strength from last year's crop is carrying into the third quarter and early signs point to another good crop year later this year.
If we have another good crop year we should have a strong second half in grain but remember that our comp gets much more difficult in the fourth quarter.
We also see continued demand for ethanol.
The current forecast for ethanol production is 14.1 billion gallons for the year which would be a record for the U.S.
We expect Automotive production and sales to continue to be strong in the second half of 2014 which will drive both finished vehicle and auto parts demand.
Most of our Chemicals market should continue to remain solid throughout 2014 though we think crude oil spreads will continue to be a headwind.
Low inventory levels and higher natural gas prices will drive demand for coal in the third quarter.
As always weather conditions this summer will also influence demand.
We will be better positioned to meet demand as our operational efficiencies improve.
In our Industrial Products business frac sand will continue to benefit from shale-related activity.
We think the strength in construction products will also continue particularly in Texas and California.
And we are cautiously optimistic that the housing market will strengthen in the second half of the year driving our lumber shipments.
We think strong demand will continue in Domestic Intermodal as highway conversions and new product offerings drive growth.
International Intermodal should benefit from an improving economy though volumes in the third quarter could moderate because of the advanced shipments we saw in the second quarter.
The economy got off to a slow start this year but it is showing signs of the modest strengthening we expected.
Our strong value proposition and diverse franchise will again support business development efforts across the broad portfolio of business.
If the economy cooperates we expect a strong second half of the year.
With that I'll turn it over to Lance.
Thanks Eric and good morning.
Starting with our safety performance we set first half records in 2 of our 3 major reportable metrics and improved in all 3 year-over-year.
Our first half reportable personal injury rate of 1.01 set a first half record and improved 6% versus 2013.
The team's commitment to risk reduction in Courage to Care and the Total Safety Culture overcame a challenging operating environment.
In terms of rail equipment incidents or derailments our reportable rate improved 4% to 2.95 and also set a first half record.
Continued investments in our infrastructure and advanced defect detection technology drove a reduction in track and equipment-induced derailments.
We also made progress on human factor incidents through enhanced skills training and root cause resolutions.
In public safety our grade-crossing incident rate improved slightly versus 2013.
To make continued progress we are focused on improving or closing high-risk crossings as well as reinforcing public awareness through our use of targeted safety campaigns.
In summary the team has made terrific progress towards getting every one of our 47 000-plus employees home safely at the end of each day despite adverse weather conditions and the risk that comes with a stressed network.
Moving on to network performance.
In April we discussed the impact the polar vortex had on first quarter operations.
Starting the second quarter we generated sequential performance improvement while growing volumes.
By late May we felt we were well-positioned to continue to make incremental advancement.
Unfortunately flooding severed a number of key quarters in June including our east-west mainline impacting our ability to generate the improvement we anticipated.
The episodic weather events were compounded by an increase in track maintenance work and interchange fluidity issues.
And as Jack noted earlier while we were pleased to see increased demand the network was challenged to absorb the stronger volumes while performing at sub-optimal levels.
Fortunately we were able to use our unique franchise to mitigate some of the impact.
We adjusted transportation plans to use alternate switching yards and gateways and moved resources to where they were most needed.
Using surge resources we've increased our active locomotive fleet by more than 800 units and our total TE&amp;Y workforce by around 800 since last fall and we have more resources on the way.
We've roughly doubled our TE&amp;Y hiring plan from our original expectations and now plan to hire 3 200 TE&amp;Y employees for the full year to cover both attrition and growth.
In addition we've added $150 million to this year's capital plan which now includes a total of 229 new locomotives.
Our service performance fell short during the second quarter which is reflected in the metrics we report each week to the AAR.
Second quarter velocity was down 7% and freight car dwell up 12% when compared to 2013.
The interruptions and subsequent limits on network capacity also drove a decline in our Service Delivery Index a measure which gauges how well we are meeting overall customer commitments.
On a more positive note we were able to maintain local service within a reasonable range registering a 93.9% Industry Spot &amp; Pull.
This metric which reflects the tighter service commitments we introduced this year measures whether a car is delivered to or pulled from a customer's facility on time.
In addition to surge resources infrastructure investments have also improved our resiliency.
The team is working very hard to handle our customers' growing volumes while restoring the service they expect from us and I am confident we are well-positioned to do so.
Speaking of demand as Eric noted the volume trends we saw earlier in the year were largely sustained in the second quarter with volume growth in each region of our network.
We realized productivity with a volume growth despite the headwinds we faced during the quarter.
So while we incurred some incremental costs associated with the congested network we handled 8% volume growth with a 5% increase in regional TE&amp;Y workforce.
Productivity improved from an increase in average train lengths in all major categories and from T-Plan adjustments that reduced online work events.
Our dedicated craft professionals and managers generated these results using the 5 key drivers to make a difference in safety and productivity and in serving our customers.
One of those 5 key drivers is capital effectiveness.
We increased our targeted 2014 capital spend back in May to around $4.1 billion.
Roughly $2.4 billion of that is replacement capital with most of that to renew our track infrastructure.
We are on target for the year as roughly half of that program work is now complete.
Spending for service growth and productivity will total around $1.2 billion.
Capacity commercial facilities and equipment are the primary drivers.
This year's forecasted new capacity includes 56 miles of double track on the Sunset Route and another 300 million or so on the southern region.
The investments in the South add critical capacity and fluidity to a historically constrained part of our network.
We are also accelerating investments to support growing volumes in our north/south corridors.
We're purchasing 229 locomotives more than 400 freight cars as well as 5 000 domestic containers.
Spending on Positive Train Control will total about $450 million for the year.
All of these projects positively impact safety whether they support replacement service or growth.
And the growth capital projects must meet aggressive return thresholds in order to be funded.
To wrap up our first order of business is to safely improve network performance while serving customer demand.
We are working hard to provide customers with a value proposition that supports growth with high level of service.
As I mentioned in April our recovery is partly dependent on interchange fluidity so we continue to work with our connecting railroads to improve performance at key gateways.
We expect to generate record safety results on our way towards an incident-free environment.
Our investments in surge resources and network capacity have proved invaluable as we handle network challenges service interruptions and increased demand.
Our focus on reducing variability in the network has never been more important to generating sequential improvement.
Ultimately safety and service will drive our ability to leverage unit growth to generate solid productivity all of which creates value for our customers and increased returns for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
Let's start with a recap of our second quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 10% to an all-time record of more than $6 billion driven by strong volume growth and solid core pricing.
Operating expenses totaled just over $3.8 billion increasing 6% over last year.
Although operating challenges in our recovery efforts did increase costs during the quarter our operating income still grew 17% to a record $2.2 billion.
Below the line other income totaled $22 million down 4% from 2013.
Interest expense of $138 million was up 4% compared to the previous year primarily driven by increased debt issuance during the first half of 2014.
Income tax expense increased to $789 million driven primarily by higher pretax earnings.
Net income grew 17% versus 2013 while the outstanding share balance declined 3% as a result of our continued share repurchase activity.
These results combined to produce best-ever quarterly earnings of $1.43 per share up 21% versus last year.
Turning now to our top line.
Freight revenue grew 10% to a quarterly record of just under $5.7 billion.
This was driven primarily by volume growth of 8% and core pricing gains of just under 2.5%.
Business mix was about 0.5% unfavorable as the positive mix impact in grain and frac sand volume was more than offset by the increase in Intermodal and shorter haul aggregate and cement shipments during the quarter.
Other revenue increased 12% in the quarter.
Primary drivers included subsidiary-related volume growth as well as the change in the way we handle per diem revenue on auto parts containers which Eric just mentioned.
Slide 22 provides more detail on our core pricing trends in 2014.
As we pointed out on our first quarter call 2014 is a legacy light year so we are not seeing the 0.5 of legacy benefit which we achieved in 2013.
Even without this legacy tailwind our core pricing gain for the quarter was just under 2.5%.
This was up slightly from the first quarter and also continue to exceed inflation which remains low as we expected.
We remain committed to a strategy of pricing to market at reinvestable levels that are above inflation.
This enables us to earn the returns necessary for continued investment in our franchise.
Moving on to the expense side.
Slide 23 provides a summary of our compensation and benefits expense which increased 5% versus 2013.
Higher volumes and inflation were the primary drivers of the increase along with some increased costs associated with running a less than optimal network.
Looking at our total workforce levels our employee count was up 1% when compared to 2013.
However the reduction in the number of employees associated with capital projects helped to offset some of the increase in non-capital-related workforce levels.
If you exclude capital-related employees our workforce was actually up approximately 2.5% with just over half of this increase coming into TE&amp;Y.
For the full year in total we plan to hire about 5 000 people to cover growth and expected attrition of just under 4 000.
This total includes the TE&amp;Y hiring which Lance mentioned earlier.
Over the long run as we hire and train new employees for growth and attrition we expect to see our workforce levels increase with volume but not at the same rate.
Lastly we still expect labor inflation to come in under 2% for the full year.
Turning to the next slide.
Fuel expense totaled $923 million up 7% when compared to 2013 driven primarily by higher gross ton-miles associated with increased volumes.
Compared to the second quarter of last year our fuel consumption rate improved 1% while our average fuel price was flat at $3.10 per gallon.
Moving on to our other expense categories.
Purchased services and materials expense increased 9% to $636 million due to volume-related subsidiary contract expenses higher locomotive and freight car material costs and crew transportation and lodging expenses.
Depreciation expense was $470 million up 7% compared to 2013 consistent with our 7% to 8% full year guidance.
Slide 26 summarizes the remaining 2 expense categories.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $316 million which was up 5% when compared to 2013.
Higher freight car rental expense was partially offset by lower freight car and container lease costs resulting from the exercise of purchase options on some of our leased equipment.
Other expenses came in at $228 million up $9 million versus last year.
Year-over-year improvement in our freight damage costs and environmental expense was more than offset by increases in our property tax expense.
For 2014 we still expect the other expense line to increase between 5% and 10% for the full year excluding any unusual items.
Turning to our operating ratio performance.
Pricing the business at reinvestable levels and strong demand continues to drive our results.
We achieved a quarterly record operating ratio of 63.5% improving more than 2 points when compared to 2013.
Through the first half of the year we have achieved a 65.2% operating ratio an improvement of 2.2 points over last year.
We also remain committed to achieving strong cash generation and improving overall financial returns.
Turning now to our cash flow.
Record first-half earnings resulted in cash from operations of over $3.2 billion.
This is roughly flat with 2013 reflecting primarily the headwind this year in bonus depreciation and the timing of cash tax payments.
Capital invested totaled $2.2 billion year-to-date.
This includes about $260 million for the buyout of the financed lease on our headquarters building which was put in place back in 2004 and is in addition to this year's $4.1 billion capital plan.
In addition we returned $776 million in dividend payments to our shareholders.
Taking a look at the balance sheet we increased our adjusted debt by approximately $1.1 billion since the first of the year bringing our adjusted debt balance to $13.9 billion at quarter end.
This takes our adjusted debt-to-cap ratio to 39.4% up from 37.6% at year end 2013.
We continue to work towards our targets of an adjusted debt-to-cap ratio of approximately 40% and adjusted debt-to-EBITDA ratio of about 1.5.
Opportunistic share repurchases continue to play an important role in our balanced approach to cash allocation.
As you may recall our new repurchase authorization of up to 120 million shares post-split over 4-year time period went into effect January 1 of this year.
Since the first of the year we've bought back 16 million shares totaling about $1.5 billion.
This brings our cumulative share repurchases since 2007 to 228 million shares.
When you combine dividend payments with our share repurchases we returned over $2.2 billion to our shareholders in the first half of this year alone.
These combined payments represented a 51% increase over 2013 again demonstrating our continued commitment to increasing shareholder value.
So that's a recap of the second quarter results.
As we look to the remainder of the year continued strength in the economy solid core pricing at reinvestable levels above inflation and improvement in network performance will help us achieve margin improvement record financial results and strong returns for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jack.
Okay.
Thanks Rob.
As we move into the second half of the year our network velocity and fluidity are improving which will better position us to serve the strong demand we're currently seeing in the marketplace.
With our increased capital budget of $4.1 billion we are committed to invest in the resources necessary to run a safe efficient reliable railroad which supports our value proposition for our customers and we're optimistic about the second half of the year.
As always we are closely monitoring the economic landscape along with the major drivers across all of our business segments including the potential impact that weather could have on grain and coal.
As the economy gradually continues to improve the power of our diverse franchise is providing business growth opportunities in all of our commodity groups.
The men and women of Union Pacific are committed to safely improving our network performance allowing us to provide customers with the excellent service they deserve while rewarding our shareholders with increasing returns.
So with that we're going to open up the line for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Bill Greene with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to chat a little bit more on pricing.
We saw as you show Rob in your slides the core price metrics started to tick up again.
Assuming that inflation doesn't fall further from here and capacity is getting broadly pretty tight in the marketplace do you feel like we've seen the trough in the core price metrics? Eric? As we've said in the past Bill we expect strong pricing opportunities as we see continued strength in demand reprice for reinvestability and reprice to the marketplace.
We have mentioned in the past that we do have part of our escalators that are based on A-lift which is still modest but we've continued to see pricing opportunities as the demand strength [ph] continues.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Jack I'm curious about your views on OR.
You didn't mention it but obviously we know you've said this in the past that the guidance that you've given in the past that you're already kind of there.
And if we look at third quarter that's typically a better seasonal quarter for you than second.
Of course you wouldn't have any weather effects.
So it would seem that third quarter should see a nice improvement on OR.
But where do you think the wall is if you will? Is there a limit? Is there a number you worry about or you think that's about as good as we can do? Or is that just really a theoretical and we're not even close? You know what we're not seeing a wall at this point in time.
Rob has said many times Bill that when we reached our guidance of sub-65 we'll move on from there and continue.
We're -- every time we look at productivity core pricing the opportunity is to grow our business the reinvestment that we're making in our infrastructure to support that growth at profitable levels.
We are enthusiastic about our ability to do better on operating ratio.
Our next question is from the line of Scott Group of Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> So I wanted to get your take on some of the implications of the BN service issues just because they're continuing I think longer than maybe some had expected at the beginning of the year.
Do you think this is creating more longer-term or maybe permanent market share gains? And you think there is an opportunity for kind of incremental share gains next year? And then just wondering if you're seeing any competitive response from them on the pricing side that could limit some of the pricing opportunities.
Eric? So we -- I've said BN is a strong competitor.
They're a capable competitor.
I have said they will get their network back and we are taking them at their word.
We're in a competitive marketplace and we continue to see them being an effective competitor in the future.
We -- as always we look for -- we focus on business development and we look for opportunities that we could price effectively.
It works well with our network and we're focused on that and we're focused on that for the long term.
LLC</strong> Yes.
I mean that's all fair.
I mean clearly when we look at the volume between you and BN clearly there's been some share shift.
Maybe I'm not asking for specific conversations but what are you hearing from customers? Do you think that that's going to stick with you? And do you think that -- could there be opportunities for more of it? Scott I think you're seeing some of both.
I think there are some places where we've been able to pick up some share.
And of course the opportunity for us is to demonstrate to customers the power of our franchise the ability to provide safe reliable consistent service day in and day out.
And we're hopeful that that has some stickiness to it and that that business will hang with us even as the BNSF recovers.
There are some other business where -- basically our franchise isn't quite as strong as theirs to the end market location.
And in all likelihood as the BNSF service returns and they're able to take the business back it's going to shift back to them.
So I think you see some of both.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
And then just last thing on coal volumes have been struggling recently.
I'm guessing that's more of a rail service issue than a demand issue.
Any way of putting some numbers around how much coal you think you're missing out on because of some of the network issues and how much pent-up demand there could be once the network is back up and running? Eric? As you said we are seeing strong coal demand.
And I think as Lance and Rob both said in their prepared remarks we did have network fluidity challenges.
Weather and natural gas pricing will determine the demand in the future.
But at this point we've seen pretty good upside demand from our current run rate of coal volumes.
Scott if I could just jump in this is Rob.
What I would look to is the inventory levels are still below where the utilities would like them to be I mean if you look at it on a 5-year average.
So as we are in the throes of the winter -- or excuse me the summer air-conditioning burn season with low inventories we think that gives us increasing opportunities.
Yes.
In fact Scott if you looked at those numbers in May it was like 19 days below and in June it's dropped to 16.
So there has been some improvement in the inventory levels but there's still a lot of opportunity for us as we see the second half of the year.
Our next question is from the line of Rob Salmon of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> As a follow-up to the kind of core pricing discussion earlier could you elaborate in terms of where you're seeing that acceleration come? Has this been driven by the market share gains that you've had? Any sort of incremental color you could provide would be helpful.
I think we've said in the past that a portion of our business in the -- about 30% of our business is really repriceable at any one period of time.
And I think pretty much across the board with strong demand we're seeing the opportunities for price improvement.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then a clarification with regard to the hiring that you guys had discussed it sounded like that's a net incremental 1 000 employees with 5 000 being hired for growth.
But then you got 4 000 in attrition.
Am I thinking about that right? Rob? Yes.
That's exactly right.
It's not an exact number but what we're basically saying is fairly high hiring numbers fairly high attrition rate and the net number will ultimately be driven by what the volume ends up being because we still squeeze out and expect to squeeze out productivity.
But it's a high-class problem for us as volume grows for us to continue to increase our hiring levels.
Research Division</strong> And Rob as a clarification what volume are you guys expecting in the back half with that 1 000 additional headcount? Yes.
Great question.
I mean we're obviously not going to give that guidance other than we do see as Eric walked through a lot of optimistic opportunities for us.
So without giving a specific number we hope the economy continues to cooperate not only for the balance of this year but as we head into 2015.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Hoexter with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Eric can you just dig in a little bit on the comments on the preshifting and your thoughts beyond Intermodal as we head in not only the next couple of months but maybe even into the back half of the year just given what level you thought was preshift? And what do you think the outcome of that is over the next couple of months? Ken as we said our international Intermodal was up about 12% in the second quarter.
I would say going into this year we probably would have expected a 3% 4% 5% improvement in second quarter and we clearly were above that.
And so we think that most of the increase beyond that was not necessarily organically marked for a business driven but related to the free shipping.
And so we think that it will not probably impact the volumes in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then your thoughts on CapEx.
I know Lance you delved into a lot of the detail of different projects.
But when you think about this level of volumes and the speed and obviously CapEx takes time to roll in.
Is the concern in the near term about ability to handle whether it's pinch points or ability to keep pace with the volume growth that you're seeing right now given that you're kind of almost at your targets for your weekly carload growth? Yes.
So Ken we feel confident that our network can handle that kind of volumes that look like they're coming our way as we proceed through the second half.
Our capital plan is targeted at specific bottlenecks and constraints.
It's coming to fruition as we would like it to.
And so going forward we feel pretty good about being able to handle the volumes that we're seeing.
Yes Ken this is Jack.
In fact right now we're moving some of the strongest volume we've seen all year and yet our operating statistics in performance is improving.
So we feel really good about that.
Our next question comes from the line of Allison Landry of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow-up to the last question's discussion.
Is it fair -- I know that you guys are bringing on some additional headcount and locomotives but you're also expecting network velocity to improve and benefit from some productivity gains.
So if I think about incremental margins in the third quarter and the fourth quarter is it possible or fair to say that we could see an acceleration from the 58% that you posted in 2Q? Not that that wasn't a good number of course.
Rob? Well Allison as you know we don't give guidance on that.
But we're -- the entire team is focused on in fact making improvements everywhere we can.
I mean if the economy cooperates that's a great opportunity for us to move.
Bill's very strong volumes gives Eric a chance to price it right.
Lance has talked about the improvements that we're progressing and in fact seeing in our operating efficiency which should help us on the cost side.
So we're focused on doing that.
I'm not going to give guidance on that number but we're focused on improving our margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with respect to the sequential improvement in pricing and the 30% of your book that's sort of tariff-based what could we see in the back half of the year? Is there a potential to see another 50 basis points or something like that potentially by the end of the year as a result of more upward adjustments on spot business? Allison that's way too specific.
We're not going to go down that line.
We are going to continue as we said to price to the market and to have reinvestability as our threshold and we've got it headed in the right direction.
Our next question comes on the line of Chris Wetherbee of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Rob if I could ask you about the repurchase activity in the quarter certainly seem to step up quite nicely and you think out over the course of the next several quarters and maybe into the next year or so.
As you're approaching some of your leverage targets you're getting closer to that.
Can we see a sustained level kind of in line with what we saw in the second quarter? Was that a bit of a catch-up or a trough? I just want to get a rough sense of maybe how you think about the pace of that repurchase activity going forward.
Yes and as you know we don't give guidance as to what we're actually going to buy.
But I would say there was nothing unusual in the second quarter other than we continue a starts with generating strong cash in the front end which is our entire team's focus that gives us then the opportunity to reward shareholders and we will continue to be opportunistic with our share repurchase program as we were in the second quarter.
So I can't give you a precise number but we felt pretty good about what we were able to do in the second quarter under that philosophy while at the same time reinvesting in the business with a strong capital program and with an increased dividend payment that you saw year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay.
That's helpful.
I appreciate it.
And then if I could just get you guys -- just curious to get your take on the crude-by-rail rules or the proposal that came out yesterday.
Just getting a rough sense of maybe how you think about that 2-year time frame.
And maybe some of the other puts and takes that are in there seemed relatively okay.
The time lines seemed a bit tight relative to our expectations but just curious your take on that? Chris I'm kind of there with you.
There was really not anything in there that was totally a surprise to us.
We have been actively involved with the Department of Transportation the AAR and others in helping to do everything we can to make what is already a safe product safer.
And so some of the ideas that are in that NPRM have already been implemented and some that are still there that we still need to work with.
And so we want to be a voice at the table.
The 2-year time frame -- the time frame really just revolves around what is the capacity in the industry to rebuild and to build new tank cars and 2 years does feel a little tight.
And if we go too far down that path and then that's -- some product isn't going to be able to move which is not the right solution.
But so far I have to say that I think we've got a good track record of having thoughtful approaches to this and we're looking forward to sitting down again and filing our comments sitting down with Secretary Fox and others to work through what is the right solution here.
Our next question comes from the line of Walter Spracklin with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess coming back on the pricing question just talking a bit more broadly I heard -- I think it was Jack or it might have been Eric saying sticking to your approach of pricing in line with inflation.
A number of your competitors have taken a little bit a step further now and looking a little bit more at yield management and focusing on customers that perhaps are not pulling their entire weight and looking a little bit more on return on invested capital as the metric by customer as opposed to pure pricing.
Eric have you looked at doing that? And I guess I'm asking the question in the context of Intermodal specifically with the tightening truck market.
Could there be opportunities that just a blanket price in line with inflation is not the right approach but rather looking at it from a more opportunistic perspective given some of the tighter capacity constraints that are going on particularly in trucking but across your entire book business? Walter I'm not sure.
Hopefully we have not given an indication that our pricing strategy is to price in line with inflation.
Our pricing strategy is to price to the market at reinvestable levels which basically means to make sure all of our business is generating an effective return on investment.
So that's the strategy that we've had for a number of years.
We think it's the right strategy.
We think it's helping to drive the financial results we're producing and we're committed to that strategy.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then specifically on particular markets notably trucking where perhaps the pricing might have not been where you wanted to be can we potentially see an uptick in pricing in those areas driven by the tighter trucking market? I guess it's where I'm going.
Yes.
We do see the trucking market tightening the CSA drivers are tightening.
The trucking market is an effective competitor for a wide swath of our business not just Intermodal business.
And certainly as their costs go up that gives us opportunity to see more demand for our network and we're seeing that and we have been seeing that and we're going to continue to price to the market based on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question here is just more of a broader question and certainly for you Jack.
There have been talk a little bit and I heard you referenced the dependence on your partner on the other side for turning assets or your interchange partner.
There has been talk about potentially down the road improving service broadly for the railroad industry through a cross-the-Mississippi type of merger.
Is that something that you just think is not on the table from a regulatory approval standpoint? Or is that something we as investors should think about? It might -- obviously not in the near-term but perhaps a little further down the road as a viable opportunity.
I think that's pretty much off the table.
The next question is from the line of Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
A question of a different kind.
I want to focus a little bit on cash.
Going back historically you generally don't have less than $1 billion of cash on the books.
And I'm just looking you're down about $700 million from where you were cash-wise a year ago.
And I know a lot of that's gone to CapEx share repurchase and dividends.
If you're going to stay within the boundaries of the growth targets you're at is there a cash level you want to stay at? And we would assume that if the share repurchase were to continue at this level it would have to result in more debt? Rob? Yes Jeff.
I mean as you know we are -- we and most companies in Corporate America are holding more cash today than maybe historical numbers would have suggested.
But I wouldn't get too hung up on quarter end cash balances from one quarter to the next because there's all kinds of timing issues which really was the big explainer of some of the changes that we saw in our second quarter whether it's tax payments timing of tax payments year-over-year that's all factored that timing that we choose to do.
So again our focus -- the way I would answer that is our focus -- as I said earlier the entire team is focused on generating quality cash from operations so that we continue to have the opportunity to reinvest in the business continue to move our dividend up and continue to be opportunistic with share buybacks which I think we in fact have walked our talk in terms of what we've done over the last several years.
Okay.
So your point is that this is more of a working capital anomaly in 2Q.
But I guess my question is is there a certain level of cash you want to keep on the books? Should I think of this as kind of a bottom in terms of where you want cash to be? No.
I wouldn't look at that.
I mean it's not a hard number on the cash.
Again as you know we're focused on improving which we did in the second quarter our debt-to-cap ratio.
We have said we want to get to that low-40s number and we've got a little bit room or opportunity to continue to progress in that direction.
I would look more at that number.
Our next question comes from the line of Brandon Oglenski with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Eric I wanted to ask you about your Mexico franchise and the opportunities that you're seeing both in the auto sector and with your new Intermodal facility that you have in New Mexico.
Is that driving a lot of incremental growth in the system? We're excited Brandon about our new Intermodal products and services and Santa Teresa has facilitated us being able to put some new products and services in the marketplace and we're going to look to grow that even more in the future.
So we view that as upside and excitement for us.
Our Mexico franchise as we said in the past we have the premier Mexico franchise with 6 border crossings and we're continuing to focus and invest in strengthening our Mexico franchise with all of our Mexican rail partners.
So that's going to be an area of focus for us in the future.
As you suggest auto manufacturing in Mexico is growing historically.
They've been call it 1.5 million to 2.5 million vehicles a year.
They are projecting over the next 3 4 5 years a growth of 4 million cars a year production in Mexico with all of the new plants.
As anything really what's going to drive the level of our auto business in the future is sales because wherever the car is produced hopefully we'll have a chance to move it given the strength of our franchise.
So growing the absolute number will really still depend on what's happening with automotive sales.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that Eric.
And Lance I wanted to ask about network velocity and obviously the favorable leverage you've been getting on your TE&amp;Y headcount.
Is that going to continue? Or do you need to ramp that a little bit faster to get the network to where you want to see it? And does that necessarily mean that you can't still get leverage if velocity is improving? Yes.
So Brandon we love to get the leverage through service improvements.
Service improvements are our favorite way of kind of leveraging growth.
If you look back at the second quarter we leveraged the growth but we were behind the eight-ball when it came to our service product.
As we look forward the addition of resources like labor are going to help us improve our service product and we still expect to get leverage productivity off the volume as we add that labor.
The next question is from the line of Jason Seidl of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> When we look out to the third quarter I was just curious when you look at your base plan for putting more locomotives into play calling more people back to work what's your base plan for the ag crop? Because it seems to me that if the ag crop is good again you could have increased demands on both you and your western partner and we all know that BN hasn't had a good time of it this year.
So I'm just curious what sort of the base outlook you have for the crop is? Eric? So Jason the latest reports from the Department of Ag says that the corn crop is as good as it's been in the last 20 years.
There's still weakness in the wheat crop but if you're talking about the corn crop we're expecting and I think the Ag -- Department of Agriculture estimates suggests that we're looking at perhaps another record corn crop year which again will say that the transportation network will see strong demand for moving that.
We feel pretty good about where we are with that.
We have ramped up to handle the incremental demand from last year's record corn crop and we are in a position to maintain that level if the crop comes in that strong.
So we feel pretty good about how we're positioned to handle that potential demand.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Very good.
And if I can go back to pricing given how tight the truckload market and that we've seen the carriers now take rates up every chance that they can sort of get their hands on should we look at sort of your core pricing here in 2Q as maybe the bottom for the year as you get a chance to reprice some of this Intermodal business going forward? Jason so again I hate to sound like a broken record but we're continuing to look at a pricing environment that we think is strong and we're going to price to the market in showing that business is reinvestable and that's our focus.
That will continue to be our focus.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well let me ask it a different way then.
You said that about 30% of your business at any given time may be up for pricing.
Out of that 30% how much is Intermodal? We don't go into that level of specificity typically.
Jason this is Rob.
I mean we're not going to give a specific pricing guidance other than the tenets of our strategy remain in a strong force and that is the price-to-market at a minimum reinvestable levels above inflation.
And clearly a strong environment a strong demand environment is better than a weak demand environment.
So we will look to move numbers and price appropriately everywhere across the business whether it's Intermodal or Other.
The next question is from the line of John Larkin with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I had a question about all of the operating challenges you faced in the second quarter which sounded fairly substantial yet the operating ratio was absolutely spectacular.
Do you want to share with us perhaps the cost of all of that flooding and all of the congestion that remains from the winter et cetera? And perhaps what the quarter would've looked like had you not had those operating challenges? Rob? Yes.
John I mean I'm not giving the specific number and it's hard to exactly split the hairs between was it -- or was it the weather was it adding process as result of some of the challenges that Lance talked about.
It was kind of all of the above and they were -- without giving a precise number they were somewhat meaningful if you will.
I mean look at our labor line you look at some of the purchased services you look at some of the other cost items they were in there.
So your point is well-taken that had we not incurred those costs things could have been slightly better and I think you're focused on the right thing that we did a good job of improving our margins in spite of some of those challenges.
And some of those challenges clearly were brought on by a very strong ramp-up in volumes so that helped of course contribute towards the positive volume and margin improvement.
So again without breaking out the numbers we think that does give us an opportunity.
If the economy stays strong and demand stays as strong as it is for us to make the improvements that Lance talked about for us to continue to improve our returns in our margins.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Got it.
Second question related to some of the capital investments that you're making on the southern part of the network where you've had some capacity challenges over the last couple of years.
As that area appears to be right on top of the area that will be ultimately supporting a lot of new investment in chemical petrochemical plants refineries things of that nature where do we stand in the build-out of all that chemical industry infrastructure? And when do you expect to start to benefit from traffic emanating out of those facilities or the expanded facilities? John I think overall we're really expecting that the investment in the chemical industry really starts to hit our network sometime in the 2016 kind of -- 2016 '17 kind of zone.
That's when we see the bulk of it.
And certainly the investments we're making today are anticipating some of that as we see not only because of the oil business and things like that but also everything else that's happening in our southern region.
Lance do you want to...
Yes.
I would remind you that the beauty of the investments that we're putting down in the southern region is that they can be broadly utilized for different commodity groups.
You point out one the Chemicals franchise we're/using them right now for our strong grain shipments down to the Gulf and we can use them for many many frac sand.
It's beautiful to leverage that capital that way.
And we have a very important project going on right now.
It's one of the biggest congestion points on our railroad called Tower 55.
We're about halfway through that project.
We'll have it done by probably the 1st of September or around that point.
But getting that bottleneck out of our network before this business starts to come on stream is an important step forward to us as we look ahead.
The next question is from the line of David Vernon from Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Eric as you think about the RPU development in Intermodal could you talk a little bit about how mix played in there? You had very good growth in international and domestic.
Was the -- would you say mix is kind of a headwind to the RPU development? Or neutral? Or maybe a little bit of a tailwind? Mix was a little bit of a headwind in the second quarter really for some of the new products and services that we put in place.
We're shorter haul than some of our traditional long-haul international Intermodal business and domestic Intermodal business.
But it was just phenomenal in the second quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And within that domestic Intermodal business we hear a lot about chassis problems particularly around some of the international moves and the potential for driver shortages to maybe make it more difficult to get some of the retail products in the market.
Are you seeing some of those pressures as well? Or you guys been able to kind of manage through that those sort of first-mile last-mile challenges without a lot of problems? I think we are seeing some of those pressures nothing that's beyond our ability to manage through on a tactical basis.
We do have some major initiatives underway to really address making our first-mile last-mile process a lot more effective.
And one of the good things about the challenges that you see kind of in the dray network with the driver shortage is that it really emphasizes to go rail as long as you can and as far as you can on the rail network.
So we do think we're going to see some upside from that.
Our next question comes from the line of Justin Long of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the 229 locomotives that are coming on in 2014.
I was wondering if you could talk about the timing of these deliveries over the course of the year.
And also as you look into 2015 do you have a rough idea right now of how many locomotives you'll need relative to this year in terms of new orders? Lance? Sure.
So we are receiving locomotives in the second half of the year.
It's a good portion of that 229.
And if you look out into 2015 we have not solidified our plans yet but we could very well be in the market in 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And secondly in June you announced a ramp of your premium Intermodal service from Chicago to the West Coast.
I was wondering if you could talk about the mix of your Intermodal business.
Do you expect to bring more of your Intermodal volumes in-house over time? Or do you think that mix between what you handle internally versus working with the IMCs will stay about the same? Eric? Yes.
So we have hardly none of our Intermodal business today that we do outside of IMCs.
IMCs are our strategy our market channel strategy to go to market.
We do have an internal IMC that is focused on the auto parts business subsidiary UPDS.
But other than that we -- our market channel strategy today is to work with IMCs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And there's no plans to change that going forward? None at this time.
Our next question is from the line of Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions around locomotive productivity and fuel burned.
We did see a modest improvement in the second quarter and I'm wondering with the additional locomotives being added in the second half should we anticipate the consumption rate to pick up near-term or -- and then possibly trend down again longer-term? Lance? Yes sure.
So new locomotives are actually a benefit to sea rate.
But there's just -- I don't think there's going to be enough new locomotives coming online in the second half to measurably show up in sea rate.
I will tell you that I'm pretty proud that we got some sea rate reduction which is improvement in the first half given the fact that our network was a bit sluggish and we pulled out a fair number of stored locomotives that are not our most fuel-efficient locomotives.
So that just demonstrates that our activity on sea rate is getting traction and I expect that to continue.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then did you have like a longer-term target where you think your fuel consumption rate would be given that the newer locomotives that your garage are going to be adding over time? Sure.
Better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
If I could just add I had a question on your comment earlier on labor attrition.
Is there any particular reason behind it? Is it just simply retirements? It's primarily retirements.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with retirements could we assume that with your new hires that there should be an incremental unit labor cost sort of benefit? Not really.
Rob you want to comment on that? Yes John.
I mean given the labor agreements no there really isn't a meaningful -- we incur when we hire somebody some training and hiring costs but in terms of the ongoing wage there's no real difference.
Our next question is from the line of Keith Schoonmaker of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of quick questions on longer-term capital deployment.
Rob I believe you mentioned purchasing some leased equipment.
Could you expand on this strategy? What portion of the equipment is currently leased? And was it just optimistic or a shift in ownership strategy? Rob? Yes it's an ongoing I mean where it makes economic sense for us to take advantage of some of the markets and long-term deals.
So I wouldn't read anything into that.
There's no shift in strategy.
It's just we're sort of opportunistic we're able to take advantage of that in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> And CapEx longer-term -- CapEx to fulfill PTC mandate is still quite high this year rounding to $0.5 billion I think.
Given the reality of the implementation schedule how do you now see the PTC spend fading over the next several years? And when PTC slips to maintenance rather than build-out do you expect to step down in total CapEx? Rob? Yes.
I mean just to remind you what we've said in terms of our total capital spend for positive train control is going to be in the neighborhood of $2 billion-ish total.
We're spending to your point planning to spend about $450 million this year which is the high watermark thus far on our spend.
We -- the deadline we'll see what the date actually ends up being.
But if it's -- if the deadline gets moved back our expectation is to spend -- on the capital side we'll still be in that $2 billion neighborhood.
We don't want it to shift the deadline and result in higher spending so we're very focused on that.
To your point in terms of what might shift we've said before -- you perhaps had heard me say before that will be an ongoing expense in our OE [ph] and that shows up most notably in depreciation which in fact we're starting to see that in our numbers this year.
So as we start to depreciate those new PTC assets you will see an increase in our depreciation expense related to that.
And again we are seeing some of that this year.
Research Division</strong> All right.
This is kind of a devilish question but if you haven't had to make the PTC spend what do you think you would have bought with that money? Or would have CapEx just been lower? I would just say it is all return based.
I mean I wouldn't -- don't have a clean answer to that other than we didn't back off on spending other worthwhile projects on our network where the returns were there and we were confident.
So it's not as if it was a simple trade-off there.
We'll always look at -- as we look at capital spending we'll always look at our business case and the expected returns that we will expect to generate out of those capital investments.
And that's all included in the guidance that we've given out in the 16% to 17% of revenue as we look forward.
That's not how we build our capital budget but that's kind of a guiding light of how we expect to size up our capital spending as we look forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Cleo Zagrean of Macquarie.
Also a question on Intermodal.
Could you share with us your insight into the main pockets of growth opportunity maybe across service offerings or types of customers especially with the West generally seen as a more mature market than the East and your numbers are obviously proving that wrong this quarter? Eric? We're seeing pretty good growth across the breadth of the Intermodal market whether you're talking about motor carriers or brokers.
I think the western part of the U.S.
if you want to consider it West of the Mississippi probably has as much or more opportunity as the Eastern part because we have longer hauls which should make it easier for -- to make the conversion from truck to rail.
So I think we're seeing strength pretty much across the breadth of our Intermodal customers.
We're also hopeful Cleo that our investment in the Santa Teresa facility will draw truck traffic that's moving today from Mexico into the U.S.
to our Intermodal facility in Santa Teresa and then we can move it east or west from that point.
So we're pretty excited about that market opportunity as well.
And the second question has to do with resource management your view on management of resources to manage variability spikes in demand like we've experienced so far this year.
Has this experience of the winter and the sheer volume led you to consider strategic changes in how you look at asset ownership? Or are you managing through it as a tactical way to -- within the same strategic framework that you are happy with? I think our performance for the first half of the year has been quite good given what we had to face in terms of the weather conditions and the congestion it caused nationwide on the rail industry.
I think one of the things that you've seen and I think one of the earlier questions about how did we get to the 63 operating ratio here in the second quarter is because over the years we have really shifted our approach.
We have become much less reactionary and much more anticipatory.
And so as we see things starting to develop on the horizon we immediately start a planning phase that says "We're going to mobilize materials.
We're going to mobilize people where they need to be.
We're going to be doing some alternative scenario planning as the way to minimize disruption to our network and to our customer service levels." And I think that shift to anticipating is really what's been kind of the key behind some of our performance certainly in the first half of the year.
And so we're -- we learn something from every event.
We learn something from every thing that happens on our railroad and our goal is to take that and work it into our planning structure so we become even more effective and better going forward.
Any particular pockets of tightness across your segments that you would like to comment on for next year? Eric what do you think? We -- Cleo we're seeing pretty good demand and the -- our first look at the 2015 forecast is pretty good demand across our book of business.
And so I don't think there's any one place that would stick out beyond any other places.
And Eric if you look at it from a network perspective Cleo we are investing in the areas where we anticipate we are going to be tight and we've talked openly about investing in the southern region and also in the north/south corridors.
Our next question is from the line of Cherilyn Radbourne of TD Securities.
I'm just going to ask one because it's getting late here but I wanted to ask a question on interline connectivity which was an issue in the quarter.
And I think the first half of this year has exposed the fragility of Chicago.
So I just wondered if you could give some color on how much of your traffic touches Chicago and the extensive opportunities you think are out there to reasonably divert that to other interchanges over time? Yes.
I would -- so I'm going to start Cherilyn and just say -- I think if you look at Chicago I don't know that I would necessarily describe it as fragility.
I think Chicago got hammered with a snow storm about every 2 weeks and frigid cold temperatures so it never melted it just kept building up and building up.
I think that was a key problem there.
We have worked with all of our interline partners in terms of not only their fluidity but also our fluidity.
We're all in this together and so we have done a lot of redirecting out of Chicago into the St.
Louis area or down to Memphis in working with our interchange partners for the mutual benefit of both of our railroads as we work through those issues.
Lance why don't you...
Sure.
So you would ask how much of our business? It's a fair portion call it 1/4 of our business ultimately moves through into out of Chicago.
And when you think about our activity in Chicago CREATE has really done a very good job of improving the Chicago gateway with interline partners.
The gateway since the start of CREATE has improved by about 1/3 in terms of the amount of time it takes a car to traverse.
And Jack mentioned it as well.
We've got ongoing investments in Chicago one of which is going to be in connection with Metro where we add a third mainline to our critical east-west route in and out of Chicago.
So I'm very optimistic both in the level of activity engagement we have with our interline partners and in the progress that we've seen.
This winter was exceptional.
It was an exceptional winter and it had exceptional impacts on the railroad.
And even so volumes still continued to move through the gateway.
Our next question is from the line of Tyler Brown of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Eric I just want to double check but did I hear that you guys are planning to add 5 000 EMP and UMAX containers this year? I'm just curious it seems like a pretty big add or was that somewhat replacement? Yes.
So a part of it is replacement.
As we discussed our business is growing.
And actually as we look into the future and we don't talk about this in specificity but there's a bunch of containers that are aging out and so we're trying to do some level-set planning and management strategically.
But you can think of it as part replacement part growth part future level-set planning.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's perfect.
And then just kind of following up on that but on the rail-controlled side.
Have you guys implemented any kind of call it general rate increases or maybe tariff increases on that rail-owned pool of containers? So the pricing that we're reporting in our Intermodal business we are increasing our prices in our Intermodal business on -- whether they're rail-owned containers or private-owned containers the pricing -- because the demand is going up pricing is going up.
Our next question comes from the line of Benjamin Hartford with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned earlier when you expect the network to be "normal" in the back half of the year.
Did you provide a time frame? No.
Lance do you want to comment? Yes.
We did not provide a time frame but what we did say is we're positioned to improve and we expect to improve.
And we're seeing improvement...
And we are seeing improvement as we speak.
Research Division</strong> And assuming that we do normalize before the upcoming winter how should we think about network utilization given the volume level that we have seen given some of the locomotive investments and the container investments and other car-type investments that you have made? Is there -- can you provide some sort of figures as to what effective network utilization will be in kind of a steady-state or normal network fluidity environment? It's pretty difficult to do that Benjamin if you think about it because it depends on where the business comes what kind of business it is and all that.
What we can tell you is at this point in time as we look ahead even at the volume levels we have we're still open for business we still have capacity and we're looking forward to additional growth.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Jack Koraleski for closing comments.
Well great.
Thanks everybody for joining us on the call today.
And we look forward to speaking with you again in October.
Take care.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
Welcome to the Union Pacific Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Jack Koraleski CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you Mr.
Koraleski you may begin.
Thank you Rob and good morning everybody.
Welcome to Union Pacific's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With me here today in Omaha are Eric Butler our Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; Lance Fritz President and Chief Operating Officer; and Rob Knight our Chief Financial Officer.
This morning we're pleased to report that Union Pacific achieved third quarter earnings of $1.53 per share an increase of 23% compared to the third quarter of 2013 and another quarterly record.
Total volumes were up 7% and the increases were nearly across the board.
We saw growth in 5 of our 6 business groups with particular strength in Agricultural Products Industrial Products and our Intermodal shipments.
Coming out of the first half we were pleased to see the strong volume growth continue through the third quarter.
These strong volumes along with solid core pricing drove a 2.5-point improvement in our operating ratio to a record 62.3% for the quarter.
And as we continue to focus on improving our service we are encouraged by the accomplishments that we achieved in the quarter.
So with that I'll turn it over to Eric.
Thanks Jack and good morning.
Volume was up 7% in the third quarter as solid demand across our franchise led to volume gains in 5 of our 6 business groups.
We continue to see strong gains in Ag Products Industrial Products and Intermodal.
We also saw gains in Automotive and Chemicals and Coal volume was flat for the quarter.
Core price improved over 2.5% to help average revenue per car improve 3.5%.
The volume growth and improved average revenue per car combined to drive freight revenue up 11% which set an all-time quarterly record of over $5.8 billion.
Let's take a closer look at each of the 6 business groups.
Ag Products had another strong quarter and once again led our volume growth.
Revenue was up 19% in the third quarter on a 14% increase in volume and a 4% improvement in average revenue per car.
Grain carloadings were up 34% this quarter as we continued to benefit from a strong U.S.
supply and lower commodity prices.
Export feed grain demand to Mexico China and Southeast Asia were strong and domestic feed grain shipments were solid across most of our franchise.
We did see softer wheat exports this quarter which partially offset our volume gains.
Grain products volume grew by 6% driven by another strong quarter in ethanol shipments.
We also saw strength in canola meal and DDG [ph] shipments.
Finally food and refrigerated segments were up 3% for the quarter as volume increases and import beer more than offset declines in frozen foods canned goods and import sugar shipments.
Automotive revenue was up 3% in the third quarter on a 5% increase in volume.
Average revenue per car was down 1% driven again by the previously reported change in the way we handle per diem revenue and also by mix.
Strong consumer demand drove finished vehicle shipments up 5% this quarter.
The seasonally adjusted annual rate for North American Automotive production was 16.7 million vehicles in the third quarter up 1 million units from the same quarter in '13 and the highest level since 2006.
On the parts side strong production and a continued focus on over-the-road conversions drove a 3% volume increase.
Turning to Chemicals our revenue was up 6% for the quarter on a 2% volume increase and a 4% improvement in average revenue per car.
We continued to see strength in our Industrial Chemicals volume which was up 7% in the third quarter.
The demand was driven by a variety of end-use markets such as shale-related drilling and various housing-related applications.
Liquid petroleum gas shipments were up 12% for the quarter driven by new business to an LPG storage facility on our franchise.
We also saw an increase in demand for fuel additive imports in Canada and propane exports to Mexico.
Partially offsetting our volume gains in Chemicals was crude oil which declined 10% in the third quarter.
As previously discussed increased production in Texas limited shipments of Bakken crude oil to the Gulf region.
However we were able to partially offset the decline from Bakken with gains from other origins.
Coal revenue increased 2% on a 2% increase in average revenue per car and flat volume.
Southern Powder River Basin tonnage was down 2% for the quarter.
Strong demand from lower inventories mostly offset volume headwinds from our previously reported legacy contract loss and a relatively mild summer.
Volume was also negatively impacted early in the quarter from flooding in Iowa that interrupted service along our east-west main line.
We continued to see increased demand in the Western part of our network which drove Colorado/Utah tonnage up 13%.
In our Industrial Products business revenue increased 19% on a 12% increase in volume and a 7% improvement in average revenue per car.
Once again nonmetallic minerals led to growth in Industrial Products with volume up 30% for the quarter.
Frac sand shipments were up 39% as we continued to see strong demand to most shale formations.
Our lumber shipments were up 15% in the quarter.
While steady improvement in the housing market increased demand we're also seeing over-the-road conversions in many markets as order sizes increase and truck capacity tightens.
And we continued to see strength in construction product shipments where volume was up 11% driven by demand for aggregates and cement.
Finally in Intermodal revenue was up 15% driven by a 10% increase in volume and a 4% improvement in average revenue per unit.
Domestic Intermodal was up 13% in the quarter.
Continued demand for new premium services and highway conversions contributed to a best-ever quarter for Domestic Intermodal volume.
Our International Intermodal volume was up 8% as continued economic strength and new business volume carried over into the third quarter.
Similar to the second quarter we believe some of the portion of this strength can be attributed to cargo owners advancing peak-season shipments in anticipation of a possible impasse during the renegotiations of labor contracts at West Coast ports.
To wrap up let's take a look at how we see our business shaping up for the remainder of 2014.
In Ag Products all signs point to another record crop for corn and soybeans this year.
Although the harvest got off to a slow start we're optimistic for a strong finish to the year in grain.
Though remember that our comp gets much more difficult starting in the fourth quarter.
We also think ethanol shipments will be strong and we expect continued strength for import beer.
In Automotive finished vehicles and auto parts shipments will continue to benefit from strength in production and sales.
Most of our Chemicals markets should remain solid for the remainder of 2014 though crude oil will likely continue to be a headwind.
Low inventory levels should drive demand for Coal in the fourth quarter.
We are hopeful that the weather cooperates as we continue to improve operational efficiencies.
In Industrial Products we expect the strength in frac sands to continue and we remain cautiously optimistic about the construction and housing markets.
New product offerings and highway conversions will drive demand in Domestic Intermodal and we continue to believe that the International Intermodal will benefit from an improving economy.
But we expect growth to moderate in the fourth quarter as we believe the international peak season is largely behind us.
Overall the U.S.
economy continues to show signs of strengthening but we are keeping a close eye on softening economies in various parts of the world.
Our diverse franchise and strong value proposition will continue to support business development efforts across our network and we expect a strong finish to the year.
With that I'll turn it over to Lance.
Thanks Eric and good morning.
Starting with safety.
Our team continues to address risk in the work place and to generate record safety results.
The performance is noteworthy given our current network variability.
Training and deploying thousands of new employees introduces risk as the new hires get a feel for their work.
We rely on each team's commitment to risk reduction Total Safety Culture and the principles of Courage to Care to counter that risk.
As a result our year-to-date employee personal injury rate of 1.09 was 4% better than 2013 and a year-to-date record low.
On a technical note we have restated our employee personal injury rates for 2011 through 2014 year-to-date due to an overstatement of employee hours during this period.
The absolute number of injuries reported was not affected.
In rail equipment incidents or derailments our reportable rate improved 7% to 3.04 and also set a year-to-date record.
Continued investments in our infrastructure and advanced defect detection technology drove a reduction in track- and equipment-induced derailments.
We also made progress on human factor incidents through enhanced skills training and standard work.
In public safety our grade crossing incident rate increased slightly versus 2013.
To make continued progress we are reinforcing public awareness through targeted safety campaigns in local communities and businesses.
We are also developing analytics to assess crossing risks which will enable us to target those with the greatest safety impact.
Overall we've made real progress on generating safety improvements on our way to an incident-free environment.
The third quarter was a challenge for the operating team with significant weather events robust volume growth and interline connectivity issues.
During the third quarter flooding and subsequent washouts on several key routes materially impacted operations.
The 84 days with major service interruptions resulting from weather and incidents were the most we have ever recorded in a quarter since we first started tracking the measure back in 2005.
In comparison the average for the third quarter since 2005 has been 37 weather and incident interruption days.
Variability also resulted from the construction of major capacity projects most notably the Tower 55 project in Fort Worth Texas.
This public-private partnership completed in late August created operational efficiencies and additional capacity by reconfiguring and adding additional track through a key bottleneck in our network.
However a project of this magnitude required us to reroute significant train traffic to facilitate installation.
Given the more-than-100 trains per day that traverse through this intersection the reroutes placed additional pressure on the network during the quarter.
Reflecting this variability our service performance fell short during the third quarter.
As reported to the AAR third quarter velocity was down 10% and freight car dwell up 13% when compared to 2013.
We have maintained velocity around 24 miles per hour while addressing these operational challenges in moving growing volumes.
The team has adjusted transportation plans to use alternate switching yards and gateways realigned resources to where they are needed most and employed the use of our surge resources.
The interruptions and their subsequent reductions on network capacity also drove a decline in our Service Delivery Index which gauges how well we are meeting overall customer commitments.
On a more positive note we were able to maintain local service within a reasonable range registering a 93.3% Industry Spot &amp; Pull.
This metric which reflects the tighter service commitments we introduced this year measures whether a car is delivered to or pulled from a customer's facility on time.
Our team is working very hard to handle customers' growing volumes while improving service and we remain focused on making it happen.
To support our customers' volume growth we have increased our total TE&amp;Y workforce by more than 1 100 employees and our active locomotive fleet by around 900 units since September of last year.
And we've stepped up our resource plan throughout the year to handle growing volumes and provide the level of service that our customers have come to expect.
As to our workforce we are now planning to hire around 3 600 TE&amp;Y employees to cover growth and attrition up from the 3 200 we discussed back in July.
Approximately 2 500 of these 3 600 have already been hired.
And while some of these employees are already active in day-to-day operations a good portion of these new hires are still in our training pipeline.
Around 1 100 will be moving into active operations in the fourth quarter.
We also have plans to acquire an additional 32 locomotives this year bringing our new total to 261 units up from 229.
Around 200 of these units are now on property and deployed across the network.
And a quick update on CapEx.
We still plan to spend around $4.1 billion this year including the additional 32 locomotives I just mentioned.
While we are largely on schedule timing issues on a few projects keeps our overall projection unchanged.
And while we still haven't finalized our overall 2015 capital program we do plan to acquire around 200 new locomotives next year.
Our capital investments help maintain a safe strong and resilient network and include investments in service growth and productivity that allow us to handle growing rail volumes.
Moving to productivity.
The volume trends we saw in the first half of the year were largely sustained in the third quarter with volume growth in each network region.
We generated solid productivity with the volume growth despite the operational headwinds we faced during the quarter.
So while we incurred some incremental costs associated with congestion we improved network productivity by increasing average train lengths in nearly all major categories and by adjusting the T-Plan to reduce work events.
The chart on the lower right demonstrates our ability to leverage growing manifest volumes through UP's terminal infrastructure.
During the quarter we switched 7% more cars with a 5% increase in yard and local employee days versus 2013.
The result was an all-time quarterly record in terminal productivity.
Our employees are bringing their expertise to bear on improving service safety and efficiency by standardizing work and reducing variability to drive our operating ratio to an all-time record.
Wrapping up.
Our first order of business is to safely improve network performance while satisfying customer demand.
We are working hard to provide customers with a value proposition that supports growth with high levels of service.
As I've previously mentioned our recovery is partly dependent on interchange fluidity so we continue to work with our connecting railroads to improve performance at key gateways.
We expect to generate record safety results on our way to an incident-free environment.
We will continue to make sound investments in resources and network capacity to overcome congestion and service interruptions and to handle increased demand.
Our focus on reducing variability in the network has never been more important to generating sequential improvement.
Ultimately running a safe reliable and efficient railroad creates value for our customers and increased returns for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
Let's start with a recap of our third quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 11% to nearly $6.2 billion driven by strong volume growth and solid core pricing.
Operating expenses totaled just under $3.9 billion increasing 7% over last year.
And even though our network continues to run at suboptimal levels our operating income still grew 19% to $2.3 billion.
Below the line other income totaled $20 million down $8 million from 2013.
Interest expense of $144 million was up 4% compared to the previous year.
Primary drivers were increased debt issuance during the first 9 months of this year.
Income tax expense increased to $836 million driven primarily by higher pretax earnings.
Net income grew 19% versus 2013 while the outstanding share balance declined 3% as a result of our continued share repurchase activity.
These results combined to produce best ever quarterly earnings of $1.53 per share up 23% versus last year.
Turning to the top line.
Freight revenue grew 11% to over $5.8 billion.
This was driven primarily by volume growth of 7% and core pricing gains of just over 2.5%.
A positive lag impact on our fuel surcharge program added approximately 1 point in freight revenue growth.
Business mix added another 0.5 point as the positive mix impact in grain and frac sand volume more than offset the increase in lower average revenue per car Intermodal shipments during the quarter.
Other revenue increased 12% in the quarter.
Primary drivers included revenue associated with the per diem on auto parts containers as well as subsidiary-related volume growth.
Recall that beginning last year per diem revenue on auto parts containers is now reported in other revenue as a result of a change in how we are compensated for this service.
Slide 22 provides more detail on the impact of changing fuel prices on our fuel surcharge revenue.
Represented by the blue line you can see how diesel fuel prices declined in August and September.
Remember there is about a 2-month lag before the price of diesel fuel actually flows to our surcharge revenue.
The dashed line reflects that 2-month lag.
In periods of falling fuel prices earnings benefit from the surcharge lag.
On a year-over-year basis the surcharge lag added about $0.04 per share to our third quarter 2014 earnings.
This includes $0.02 of positive impact in the third quarter of this year as well as $0.02 of negative impact during the same period last year.
As we look ahead it's hard to say what might actually happen with fuel prices.
It's a little like trying to predict the economy.
So whilst we've been seeing a modest benefit to start off the fourth quarter much can change between now and near the end of the year.
Slide 23 provides more detail on our core pricing trends in 2014.
Third quarter core pricing came in at just above 2.5%.
This is up slightly from our first-half average reflecting continued core pricing gains.
And our commitment to a strategy of pricing to market at re-investable levels that are above inflation remain solidly intact.
Moving on to the expense side.
Slight 24 provides a summary of our compensation and benefits expense which increased 8% versus 2013.
Higher volumes inflation and increased training expense were the primary drivers of the increase along with some increased costs associated with running a less-than-optimal network.
Looking at our total workforce levels our employee count was up 2% when compared to 2013.
However the reduction in the number of employees associated with capital projects helped to offset some of the increase in noncapital-related workforce levels.
If you exclude capital-related employees our workforce was up over 3% with the majority of this increase coming in our TE&amp;Y ranks.
For the full year in total we are now revising our previous estimates.
We now plan to hire over 5 500 people to cover growth and expected attrition of just under 4 000.
This total does include the increase in TE&amp;Y hiring which Lance just discussed.
From a timing perspective about 30% of this hiring is expected to occur in the fourth quarter of this year.
Going forward you should expect to see our workforce levels grow with volume but not at the same rate of increase.
Labor inflation is still expected to come in under 2% for the full year in part reflecting favorable pension expense.
Turning to the next slide.
Fuel expense totaled $882 million up 2% when compared to 2013 driven primarily by higher gross ton-miles associated with increased volumes and lower diesel fuel prices.
Compared to the third quarter of last year our fuel consumption rate improved 1% while our average fuel price declined 5% to $3.01 per gallon.
Moving on to the other expense categories.
Purchased services and materials expense increased 11% to $650 million due to higher locomotive and freight car material costs volume-related contract and subsidiary expenses and crew transportation and lodging expenses.
Depreciation expense was $481 million up 8% compared to 2013 consistent with our 7% to 8% full year guidance.
Slide 27 summarizes the remaining 2 expense categories.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $310 million which is flat when compared to 2013.
Higher volume-related freight car rental expense was offset by lower freight car and container lease costs.
Lease costs are lower as a result of exercising purchase options on some of our leased equipment.
Other expenses came in at $242 million up $37 million versus last year.
Higher state and local taxes damaged freight and equipment costs and personal injury expense contributed to the year-over-year increase.
Year-to-date other expenses are up 5% within the range of our full year guidance of an increase between 5% and 10% excluding any unusual items.
Turning to our operating ratio performance.
We achieved a quarterly record operating ratio of 62.3% improving 2.5 points when compared to 2013.
Through the first 3 quarters of the year we achieved a 64.2% operating ratio an improvement of 2.3 per [ph] points over last year.
With 3 quarters now complete we are in a solid position to achieve our long-term guidance on a full year basis of a sub-65% operating ratio this year.
Turning now to our cash flow.
Year-to-date cash from operations totaled nearly $5.4 billion.
This is up almost 10% when compared to 2013.
Recall this amount is tempered by the headwind this year in bonus depreciation and the timing of cash tax payments.
Capital invested totaled $3.3 billion year-to-date.
In addition we returned about $1.2 billion in dividend payments to our shareholders.
Taking a look at the balance sheet we increased our adjusted debt by approximately $1.7 billion since the first of the year bringing our adjusted debt balance to $14.5 billion at quarter end.
This takes our adjusted debt-to-cap ratio to 40.2% up from 37.6% at year end 2013.
This puts us in line with our target of an adjusted debt-to-cap ratio of approximately 40%.
And we continue to work towards our target of an adjusted debt-to-EBITDA ratio of about 1.5.
We also continue to be opportunistic in our share repurchases.
Since the first of the year we've bought back over 24 million shares totaling about $2.3 billion.
This brings our cumulative share repurchases since 2007 to 237 million shares.
When you combine dividend payments with our share repurchases we returned more than $3.5 billion to our shareholders in the first 3 quarters of this year.
These combined payments represent a 47% increase over 2013 continuing our focus on rewarding shareholders with increased cash returns.
So that's the recap of our third quarter results.
As we look to close out the year we are well positioned to report a record year in many of our key financial measures.
Of course we still need the economy to cooperate but the business fundamentals remain strong and are supported by our solid core pricing initiatives.
I would also like to remind everyone that as we have previously announced we have an Investor Day coming up in a couple of weeks on November 5 in Chicago.
So as we look past 2014 and into next year and beyond we look forward to providing you our thoughts and views at that point in time.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Jack.
Okay.
Thanks Rob.
Well as you've heard from the team today we're feeling pretty good about the remainder of the year.
Assuming that the economy and weather cooperate we are well positioned to finish up the year with record results.
We continue to see tremendous opportunity across our diverse franchise and we remain focused on improving our network velocity and fluidity so that we can leverage these opportunities by safely providing our customers with excellent service and our shareholders with strong returns.
So with that we're going to go ahead and open up the line for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Brandon Oglenski with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Jack just given that I'm the first here I guess I'm going to ask a question that you probably know is coming.
There's been some discussion around M&amp;A in the industry right now and definitely proposals to fix the service issues facing the carriers.
So I know you talked about it in the last call or said effectively you don't think M&amp;A can happen.
But do you believe that combinations of the east-west carriers could potentially alleviate some of the congestion that you're seeing right now? Brandon I am not convinced that merging is the way you solve service issues in this industry.
And particularly right now I don't think mergers make sense and I still believe that.
I think when you look ahead to the regulatory hurdles that are out there the STB the new rules basically say that any combination is going to have to enhance competition as opposed to the past when it was just maintain competition.
And secondly that they will consider the triggering effects of additional consolidations.
So that really does add a whole layer of concern for me as I think about the prospects of future mergers.
So I'm not a fan and I really don't believe that's the best way to fix the service situation.
Research Division</strong> Well when you look at the overlap though of the networks do you believe there's a lot of competitive overlap in some of these combinations? Or are there potentially combinations that could help some of these bottlenecks where you wouldn't have significant competitive concern? When we come across bottlenecks we work really hard with our interline partners to solve them.
And I don't see that merging is the way to eliminate bottlenecks.
The next question comes from the line of Chris Wetherbee with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a question on pricing.
I want to get a rough sense of sort of how you think about the pricing environment particularly when you're looking out to 2015.
Obviously volumes are sort of getting back up towards previous peak levels.
Just kind of want to get a rough sense about how you feel about that and a potential re-acceleration if we could see one in 2015 up from about the 2.5% you've been doing the last couple of quarters.
Chris we like to -- what we're seeing in the marketplace today in terms of the volume that's taking place and the demand and clearly when a market reacts that way the pricing environment gets better.
I don't know Eric you want to put some technical around that? Yes Jack you're right.
We've said in the past that as demand strengthens we see our ability and our strong value proposition to continue to allow us to take price and we're excited about the future opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay that is helpful.
And then if I could just ask a follow-up question specifically as it pertains to Intermodal.
You've had some fairly strong results on the Intermodal side.
Just want to get a rough sense maybe if we can parse out is there-- how we think about sort of the core business and then the competitive potential opportunities that maybe you've seen over the course of this year.
And maybe if it's just sort of a mix dynamic that's playing into that Intermodal average revenue per car.
Just want to get a sense of how that is trending because it seems to be a bit of a standout.
Okay.
Eric? Yes.
I think we've been saying the whole year talking about our new products and services and as we're rolling out our new products and services it's really driving our value proposition and our ability to convert truck particularly long-haul truck to the rail.
And again that value proposition continues to allow us to price to market and strengthen our prices and it's just a continuation of the trend that we've had.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the fourth quarter that's sort of the same dynamic potentially with international being a little bit maybe softer and then the domestic side continuing to do what it's been doing.
Yes.
As you know there's always kind of a cycle throughout the year in terms of the volumes quarter-to-quarter and we expect that cycle throughout the year to be similar this year as it was previous year.
But given that yes we see our strong value proposition and the trend to continue.
Our next question is from the line of John Larkin with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just had a question on whether or not you all have estimated the cost of the network performance issues that you incurred in the third quarter.
You were able to put up obviously just spectacular numbers.
But I suspect that if things have been more fluid you would've done even better than that.
Any estimates on the cost of that set of challenges? And also was there any revenue missed due to performance issues or interline issues? Hey Rob why don't you take a shot at that? Yes John that -- it's difficult to kind of nail that down as you know.
Roughly -- clearly there was some cost.
I'd say it cost us probably $0.01 or so on the cost.
But as we pointed out we recognize that we didn't meet all of the demand in our Coal business for example.
So there's some revenue that clearly we hope to continue to make up as we move forward but that had an impact as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And then on the reduced year-over-year crude volumes is there any hope for making up some of that by connecting with the Canadian carriers and hauling some of the heavy sour out of Alberta down to the Gulf Coast? Eric? Yes John as we've said in the past our strategy is to strengthen our franchise to provide optionality between origins and destinations.
We're still doing that.
We're heading down that path.
As you know we don't control the flows.
The spreads are going to drive that and the price of oil is going to drive that.
In terms of the Canadian perspective I certainly think that as oil goes to $85 $80 the Canadian heavies probably have more headwinds than they do at $100 or $110 price of oil.
So those are all factors that will go into our crude oil opportunities in the future.
I would just add to that John.
The trade-off of a 10% down on our oil business but a 39% increase on the frac sand business is pretty darn attractive to us.
Our next question is from the line of David Vernon with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So Jack I think the company used to speak about the capacity on the network being somewhere in that 190 000 195 000 carloads at a 4-week moving average basis.
Obviously you guys have been doing a lot in terms of double trucking [ph] parts of the network to the Tower 55 project.
Can you sort of help us understand where you think the capacity situation is now with all the resources you're adding? Are we -- or do you guys feel like you're in a good position to accommodate volume growth? Do you feel like there's the potential for a more drawn out potential for service issues as the volume outlook continues to look pretty strong? David I actually feel pretty good about our positioning right at the moment.
And I'm not backing down from the 195 000 to 200 000 kind of a range.
Our capital spending on infrastructure has been excellent.
Our railroad is really in the best shape it's been in in a long time.
We are adding crews I think as you've seen in the presentation today pretty aggressively here in the last quarter of the year and actually even into the first couple of months of next year.
Our locomotive take for this year is solid and we're protected for next year.
And I like all of that.
We're running the 100 000 -- between 190 000 and 195 000 cars a week week-to-week and we are continuing to see improvement in our internal measures and our velocity and things like that.
So I feel good about the fact that we're getting better even at these very strong volumes.
And I think I'd stay in that 195 000 to 200 000.
I think we'll be okay.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And the results definitely support that.
So Eric maybe just as a follow-up it looks like the growth in premium traffic the trailer growth in the Intermodal segment there you're picking up some business.
Would you think that there's more runway to grow that? Or do you think that this is going to be sort of 1 or 2 premium accounts where you're getting a nice hit on the RPU? Or do you think that there's more potential to grow that premium service product over a longer period of time? As you know and as we've said in the past we're continuing to put new products and services in the marketplace.
I think we spoke at the last quarter about some of the new premium services that we put in the marketplace between Chicago and the West Coast and the TMNW [ph].
And so we certainly saw a benefit from putting those new products and services in the marketplace.
We're going to continue to look at opportunities to do that and we expect to continue to drive growth across our Intermodal book of business including our premium business.
Our next question is from the line of Jason Seidl of Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Real quick here.
You talked a little bit about pension being a minor help this year.
Given current interest rates what are you expecting for '15? Rob? Yes.
I mean obviously we don't have all the full numbers nailed but Jason I think it's a safe assumption that it'll be higher next year.
And as I pointed out that pension and other health and welfare items are what drove our comp inflation number to be as I stated below 2%.
We would expect that's going to obviously drive that to a higher number next year probably closer to 3-ish all in.
LLC Research Division</strong> 3-ish all in.
Okay.
Now given that and you said your core pricing was just -- I guess just over 2.5%.
Is that something that we should look to trend up that 2.5% next year to try to keep up with some of the additional costs that are coming on? Rob? Yes.
I mean I -- our philosophy Jason has not changed at all.
And that is to price to market at re-investable levels and above inflation.
So we're constantly taking advantages there talk to where it make sense for us to bring on business at the right terms and right conditions and that -- we're not giving more detailed guidance on that other than our tenet and our focus and our belief achieving those goals has not changed.
LLC Research Division</strong> Has it been a little bit more difficult given the service levels on some of the pricing discussions with your shippers this year? Eric? Jason we operate in a very competitive environment and lots of competitive options.
And getting price is always difficult but we believe we have a value proposition and we are going forward in selling our value proposition and gaining a price for it.
Our next question is from the line of Bill Greene of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about -- and Jack or Eric really the addressable market.
So when you look at what's kind of going on with your operating ratio it's getting to very impressive levels.
And I realize you haven't quite gotten to low 60s on a full year basis but you're getting to levels where I think all of us are going to sort of rightfully conclude that well there's probably more opportunity to go but that opportunity set is diminishing.
So could you talk about how you weigh the pros and cons of using some of that operating ratio to try to grow revenue faster? Is that something that you started thinking about that you want to kind of start to try to win business using maybe price where appropriate? Or how do you think about this changing dynamic? You know Bill I don't think about my opportunities as diminishing.
As I look ahead for the next 4 5 6 years and we'll talk about this more on November 5 I think the Union Pacific franchise is loaded with opportunities.
And I think Eric and his team are doing an outstanding job of business development.
Part of our capital investment strategy like Santa Teresa part of it in terms of the announcement we made about moving ahead with a new facility in Robertson County down in Texas.
All that's focused on growth and development.
There's still huge potential for us in Mexico.
I'll stop.
I'll let Eric...
The only other thing I would add and again Jack and Rob said we'll talk more about this at the Investor Day if you think about the shale play and the lower energy prices in this country there is really a resurgence of activity business activity investment activity manufacturing activity.
And we see that continuing to be just a strong propellant for growth in the future.
I mean talking about price using price to grow is not even in our vernacular at this point.
Bill this is Rob I just got to add.
We'll try not to have 3 people answer each question.
But I have to add that focus really for us is on returns.
Operating ratio has got a shorthand target that gives us -- brings it all together in terms of efficiency and we use that as a measure of success if you will.
But at the end of the day we really are focused on driving returns.
Research Division</strong> No that's very hopeful.
Let me just clarify because I just kind of wanted to make sure I kind of asked this in the right way.
And what I'm basically getting at is I think most people would say that a long-term organic growth rate in volume terms for rails is probably GDP-like.
Pricing will be inflation-plus if you put that at 2% or so we'll talk about maybe a 3% number.
And that kind of puts you in the mid single-digit revenue growth rate range.
And I think what I'm trying to get at is is there a way to push that higher or are what you -- maybe what you're saying is listen our network has much greater opportunities than that organic GDP-like level of growth.
But that's what I was kind of trying to get at.
I think 2 things Bill.
One is you're right.
I think we believe that our franchise has greater opportunities than that.
And number two is it's not just about market and inflation.
It's also about the value that you provide for the customer.
How do you differentiate your service package the options that you provide customers the relationships that you build with them.
And we think that gives us an edge.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Wadewitz at UBS.
Research Division</strong> Let's see so I wanted to ask you about how would you compare the current environment for -- rail environments not just UP.
But current rail environments 2004 through 2006 I guess the shoe is on the other foot so to speak among the western carriers in terms of maybe who has greater capacity challenges.
But is it fair to say that this may be similar where it really takes a while to recover for the industry and velocity but that supports some positive things in terms of price and perhaps a couple of years of pretty favorable pricing? I think Tom that's not a bad assessment.
Having been the poster child of what not to do in 2003 '04 '05 it feels better that we're where we are at the moment.
But I do think when you look across the rail industry you're seeing incredibly strong capital investment.
Almost uniformly across every property.
You see operating teams that are experienced that are working diligently to get these things working.
There's a lot of interline activity between carriers that's looking at improving service and things like that.
So I think it'll -- while there are some similarities to that I'm hopeful that you're going to see a quicker return to kind of a more normal velocity than what we saw back in those days.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let's see in terms of the I guess getting to your own pricing opportunity how much of your book is available to get repriced in 2015? And I guess how much of that have you already taken up already set the repricing? Eric.
So we've said in the past Tom that at any one given period of time roughly 70% of our book of business is tied up in contracts of a year and longer.
We're rolling those over at -- all the time.
So I think that's a good rule of thumb to continue to use.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I mean if you said tariff one-year letter quote plus the multi-year that rolls over is it maybe 50% of the book you could touch for next year or is there a broad brush number you can give us for what you actually [indiscernible] next year? If you look at it Tom it hasn't changed very much over the years.
About 30% is in tariff about 30% is in one-year letter quotes.
But those all come up and due at different times during the year.
So I think you kind of stick with what Eric told you.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Hoexter with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just want to revisit your answer then on kind of the volumes here.
To David's question before you talked about 190 000 to 200 000 and you said you felt good about 195 000 to 200 000.
But if you're growing at these levels and you're already running at 190 000 195 000 carloads per week do you start to face congestion if you get -- if the Ag business stays strong or what-have-you in terms of volumes? I just want to understand do you see tightness just given on the volume side? Understanding what you're doing on the crew and locomotive side.
It just sounds like the network at some point hits that max or is it just based on where the volumes are coming in from? I don't think that that's a max for us Ken.
I think we have potential even beyond those numbers.
It really does depend.
I don't know Lance why don't you take a shot at it.
Sure.
So right now we'd love to have more crews in our network to spool up our speed.
That's probably the starting point of where current service product gets back to what we would consider an acceptable level.
As we look forward we're constantly making investment decisions in all the critical resources to be able to handle growth where we anticipate growth is going to occur.
And I don't see any reason why we would say future growth is going to be retarded because those investments aren't happening in the right spots.
Nor do we think it's going to take anything more than what we've stated which is a 16% to 17% of revenue kind of capital trend to keep us ahead of that game.
16% to 17%.
Yes.
We're not saying it's going to take an exceptional capital infusion to keep us good.
Research Division</strong> No that's encouraging because it sounded like you were saying before it was kind of a max at least for now but that's encouraging on the ability to grow.
And then maybe Eric thoughts on the Ag business in terms of this record crop we've had.
It looks like we've got another strong crop.
You said there was a delay in getting the harvest started.
Can you maybe delve into that and talk about business there and what you're seeing in terms of congestion and the infrastructure there and kind of the pace of growth we should expect on the Ag side? Yes.
So last year was a record corn harvest and a good soybean harvest.
This year all indications is that it's going to be another record corn harvest.
I think last year was 13.9 billion bushels.
This year might be -- I think the estimates are 14.4 billion bushels.
And likewise soybeans I think are going to be up close to 4 billion bushels which would be a record.
The delay that's occurring is really the delay of farmers harvesting in the field it's not a transportation supply chain delay.
Variety of reasons for that.
Some parts of the country it's been wetter than usual.
Other parts of the country the farmers are making the decisions in terms of when they want to bring their product to market.
So a variety of reasons for that.
So we expect this record harvest to still -- record corn harvest to still be ahead of us in terms of harvesting and the farmers looking to put that into the supply chain the transportation process.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
I appreciate the time and great results.
If I could just get a clarification though Eric on something you said earlier.
The oil that you mentioned was declining.
Is that because it's moving east and west and -- because your frac sand is going up.
So I just want to understand why that downshift in the crude on your network when we're seeing such strong growth on all the others.
Yes the crude reductions for us have been the Bakken to the Gulf and Louisiana.
And if you look at the flows of the Bakken crude that is flowing east and west and not north and south.
And one of the reasons it's not flowing north and south is that there's such huge production of crude in Texas in the basins in Texas that it's predominantly moving by pipeline to the refineries.
We have some spot rail moves but predominantly by pipeline.
There really is not a need to move the Bakken crude to Texas.
So that's the dynamic that we're seeing.
Our next question is from the line of Allison Landry with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So following up on frac sands.
So volume growth clearly accelerated in Q3.
And in spite of the uncertainties surrounding crude prices do you have any opportunities to take up price on this business given the very tight supply? And it looks you took up some of the public tariff rates on this business.
I was wondering if you could comment on what percentage is contractual versus spot.
Eric? So we don't give kind of percentages of contracts versus public by individual business segment.
But we are focused again on our value proposition.
We're focused on the demand the strong demand that's going on in that marketplace and we are pricing it appropriately.
If you look at that marketplace there's huge new production coming online of sand facilities in Wisconsin and Minnesota.
We're excited about our franchise and the ability that we're giving the disproportionate amount of that new production on our line which we think is a great opportunity for us in the future.
So we think that as long as the drilling continues and oil prices sustain drilling we have nice growth opportunity ahead of us in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then you mentioned earlier your longer term view of a resurgence in industrial activity in the U.S.
Within that context how are you thinking about the new ethane crackers coming online maybe in terms of the size of the opportunity? And has there been any talk from customers about potential delays from either labor or the recent slide in crude prices? Yes as you know Allison that there's huge number of new capacity coming online.
A lot of that will come online in '16 or '17.
Those were the plans.
But as long as natural gas kind of remains where it is in the $3.75 range it's going to be a huge financial incentive for those projects to go forward.
There's been public reports of some spot shortages of skilled laborers.
As far as we could tell it's not significant or material to the timetable of any of those projects.
Our next question is from the line of Scott Group of Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Wanted to follow up on that question about comparing this to that '04 '05 timeframe.
If I go back and look when you guys were having those significant service issues it really kicked off a 3- or 4-year period of pretty material share losses to be in.
This year we're seeing the opposite.
Do you think this is the beginning of a multiyear period of share gain or do you think this is going to be more of just a one-off? That's really hard for us to tell right now Scott.
So I got to tell you the BNSF is a great railroad.
And they're going to come back and they're going to come back strong.
So we have seen some opportunities probably the strongest we've seen have been in grain and in Intermodal but those can move back very quickly.
And our goal is to impress those customers with our value proposition and doing business with Union Pacific such that when the competition is stronger than what they are today they won't think about shifting back.
But it is a tough competitive marketplace out there and we recognize we will have to compete.
LLC</strong> Are the tenor of the conversations suggesting that next year could be another year of share gain or could some of that go back in your mind? Eric? As Jack said the BNSF is a tough competitor.
I think they have publicly stated in different forums that next year the full year will be a full recovery year for them.
We see them working hard to recover and I would not be surprised to see them recovering in different parts of their markets as you go through the year and they will continue to be a strong competitor.
LLC</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then one for you Rob.
If I look back at last year when you had legacy pricing it looked like it was about 1 point 1.5 point boost to the core pricing gains.
Is it realistic to think next year could be similar to that? And is there any update on what percent of the legacy you expect to retain? Sometimes you can give us an update around that.
Yes.
I mean just to kind of reiterate what I think you already know Scott.
You're right we achieved about 1.5 point of benefit last year from legacy contract renewals.
Coming into this year we said "legacy light." So basically 0 this year.
Next year we have about $300 million worth of revenue that we will compete for in the marketplace.
We don't give guidance in terms of what the pricing's going to look like on that.
But we're going to be in the marketplace competing and we're in those discussions as we speak.
So no further update on that other than it will -- we would expect there would be some contributor next year on legacy versus this year 0.
Our next question comes from the line of Walter Spracklin with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just have one question here on Intermodal.
We mentioned the BNSF issues and there was obviously some labor volatility.
A few of the other railroads are talking about the potential that shippers will start to diversify away from the port of L.A.
Long Beach.
And I see you have a question mark on your Intermodal growth outlook.
Do you think that this diversification is possible and to what extent it might impact your operation out of those ports? Eric? So Walter great question.
The market is aware and we are aware of the difficulties that are occurring right now in the Port of L.A.
Long Beach.
They are experiencing backups.
A variety of reasons for that.
Probably some of it is due to some of the labor uncertainty with the West Coast ILWU workers.
Some of it's probably related to the fact that you have larger ships going into the terminals and they're dwelling longer as they're trying to unload those ships.
Part of it is due to the fact that as the alliances the steamship alliances are changing.
It's having different impacts on different terminals within the Port of L.A.
and Port of Long Beach.
So a variety of issues.
Those issues frankly are impacting some of our transportation operations.
We're doing some things creatively to overcome those.
But if you look at it the Port of L.A.
Long Beach is still such a huge driver of West Coast imports.
It's unlikely to see significant long-term material diversions.
Last month September the Port of L.A.
Long Beach hit volume levels that they hadn't seen since probably '06 or '07.
So they're seeing huge volume growth.
There might be some nominal diversions to some other ports whether up or down the U.S.
West Coast or in Canada.
Some of those ports have similar capacity challenges that they also have that they're also working through.
So there might be some nominal short-term diversions.
But long term if the Port of L.A.
Long Beach can get their issues worked through they're still in a pretty good place to maintain and grow their segment of the business.
LLC Research Division</strong> And as you see some of that capacity tightening along the Western U.S.
and Canada as we approach a more full -- approach Panama fully up and running as time gets closer are you hearing your shippers talk more and more looking harder at what they're going to do with Panama? I know there's still a lot of question marks around the rates around there and all that but any update on what the potential impact longer-term of Panama could be? Yes so as you know there's still a whole rate question out there in terms of if it's going to cost more money and you have a longer transit time.
There is actually a construction delay question still out there with the Panama Canal.
I think what we've said in the past is still what we think today that you might have 1% or 2% that gets diverted today.
About 30% of the business is all water.
That might grow to 31% 32%.
But we don't see nor are we hearing from shippers anything significant beyond that.
Our next question comes from the line of Rob Salmon of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> With regard to the -- you guys have historically talked that the train size performance isn't kind of the end-all be-all particularly when there are growth opportunities.
I think we saw that with the Intermodal results this quarter.
Could you give us a sense how much more volume the Intermodal network could handle on average if volumes continue to pick up here? Sure.
Lance? Yes.
Rob so you're right.
Train size is not the be-all end-all.
Intermodal was impacted this quarter by new products that on average were smaller than the rest of the network.
And if you think about train size opportunity on Intermodal trains as it exists today to get them up to average train size in the routes that they go there's plenty of upside.
Not putting it in a percentage but dozens and dozens of boxes.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then Lance as I'm thinking about the Intermodal growth particularly on the expedite trailer side you guys have clearly taken market share in the PNW down to Chicago.
How much of the growth has been driven by some large customers you guys took on there versus just overall network gains that you're seeing across the network due to a tight trucking marketplace? It's probably more a question for Eric.
But I will tell you we do not speak to specific customers.
We do have a new product in that lane that's performing well and it is attracting new business.
Yes that's the answer.
And I mentioned that earlier we put in some new products both to the PNW and to California.
And those new products are attracting business particularly as some of our competitors are struggling in that corridor.
Research Division</strong> And Eric as we think about that business should there be a significant peaking factor to the RPU in the fourth quarter associated with that or is the third quarter a pretty good run rate looking out kind of for the Intermodal product? I think overall Rob we're not going to give specific pricing guidance on that.
I think we'll have to just wait and see how the business materializes and hopefully it's going to continue to be positive.
Our next question is from the line of Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I had a question with regards to Mexico.
It's been sort of around 10% of your revenue days.
And I'm wondering is that changing materially? And if not when do you anticipate the growth or potential outsized growth in Mexico to start to contribute or a little bit more of the overall book of revenue.
Overall Thomas it was 10% again in the quarter.
Volume was up about 9% so it's a great piece of business with us.
In terms of future growth Eric you want to take a shot? We continue to think Mexico has nice future growth opportunities on the auto side the grain side the industrial product side.
A 9% growth trend is pretty good.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious as to what the point when -- one would think with all the newer sourcing opportunity that it should be a bigger percentage of the book to business.
And I guess if you can maybe frame out maybe even how Santa Teresa fits into that picture and when you anticipate that potentially adding maybe 1 point or 0.5 point in terms of the overall revenue contribution.
Will you be able to frame out perhaps maybe the medium- to long-term? This is Rob maybe I can answer that for you that Thomas.
I mean we're not going to give specific guidance on that.
But I would just say that if look out over the last several years our volumes in and out of Mexico -- and of course as you know we're the only railroad that crosses the 6 rail crossing points.
But our Mexican-related business has been growing faster than our overall enterprise business has.
So it's been contributing.
And we're not going to break out in terms of what the margins are on that business.
But I would just tell you that it's good business that we're bringing on the network.
So it has been contributing and continues to contribute as we move forward.
And your Santa Teresa growth is meeting expectations.
And just as a data point that would be considered domestic business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right great.
Can I just ask a question with regard to the labor inflation? Obviously we're hearing sort of recurring sort of comments about the challenges recruiting labor and obviously -- just in particular with regards to certain markets where labor's extremely tight.
Should we be a little concerned? Is wage inflation possibly a headwind into 2015 that we should be thinking about or are there other mitigating factors that could dampen that sort of concern that we might be having here? You know we have a solid pipeline of talent.
We have a great organization out getting us new employees.
And right now we're not seeing a concern.
Rob do you have any insight on inflationary [indiscernible]? Yes Thomas.
I would just say that's all wrapped in to -- I agree with Jack's comments.
In the inflation we expect it to be higher next year.
And as I said earlier 3 plus-ish versus the less than 2 all in this year.
For lots of reasons.
Our next question is from the line of Justin Long with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on how you're thinking about the potential pricing environment in Intermodal.
Do you think it should mirror some of the contractual rate increases we're seeing in the truckload market? Or given you've been pushing price in this business to get back to re-investable levels over the past few years do you think the pace of increases could be below what we're seeing in truckload? Eric? Again we feel very good about our value proposition.
And as the truck market tightens from a variety of issues the new CSA rules truck driver the cost of fuel the cost of cabs we think that just strengthens our value proposition and strengthens our ability to get price as we go into the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And another one on Intermodal.
It's obviously a lower RPU business but is there any way you could speak to the incremental margins that you're seeing in Intermodal today? Just given the opportunity to build into the -- add the train lengths et cetera.
Do the incremental margins in Intermodal look pretty similar to your other commodity groups? This is Rob let me answer that.
We don't break out specific margin by business.
But you have heard me perhaps say many times that our Intermodal opportunities -- Intermodal has typically been on the lower end if you will of our very diverse business group and it's been moving up fast.
All of our business has been moving in the right direction.
And as Eric said we still have confidence that we can continue to move it directionally correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
But to clarify today it's still a bit below the other businesses? It's probably below average but improving nicely.
Our next question is from the line of Cleo Zagrean with Macquarie.
Two follow-ups on previously asked questions.
The one just before me on pricing and Intermodal: could you please help us understand the outlook for continued sustained improvement? And maybe the main drivers whether it's narrowing the gap to trucking given your enhanced value proposition whether changes in the road mix or the mix of domestic versus Intermodal new relationships that you are building.
Please help us understand what we should look for long-term for Intermodal pricing.
You know Cleo you did a pretty good job of answering that question.
I think it's a combination of all those things.
It's first of all getting our service back into the zone where it absolutely needs to be and we're committed and we'll get there.
So that's a good thing for us.
Secondly it is the relationships the new business opportunities.
Thirdly it's when you look at the business proposition that Intermodal offers compared to the trucking industry the opportunity for highway conversion when you think about environmental friendliness when you think about the fuel efficiency when you think about the whole package of the beauty of Intermodal which combines the best of both truck and rail.
That's an opportunity for us.
You add to that the capital investments that we're making in places like Santa Teresa that's part of our opportunity pipeline.
So all of those things that you've identified continue to keep us excited about the growth opportunity.
And then the other thing that I would add is the pressure on the trucking industry the additional regulations they're seeing the increased insurance cost.
And eventually you're going to find out that they're going end up with driver shortages.
We're back now to where the housing market's getting back into what would be considered normal.
What we saw originally was all those guys that went out of construction went into driving trucks.
And right now they want to stay home with their kids.
They're all shifting back into the construction zone.
So I would expect that at some point in time the trucking industry is going to have driver shortage issues.
All that plays into our book.
Anybody want to add? No good.
And the second question also goes back to the issue of capacity.
Can you please help us understand why just looking at the past peaks in terms of carloads on your network may not fully reflect your new capacity and flexibility.
I don't know if it's just because the cars themselves are getting bigger or there are changes with your manifest versus unit train mix.
Any other change in the base of your resources that really enable you to support growth more than we appreciate right now.
Okay Lance? Sure yes.
Actually Cleo if you go back to the same volume levels historically we're running about 1.5 mile to maybe even 2 miles an hour faster than we were at equivalent volume levels.
That's a direct reflection of improved network capacity.
And so when we look forward our current utilization of that network capacity is not what we want it to be we're retarded by lack of crews and a handful of other things.
As we get on top of that moving forward which we are doing we anticipate that those service levels improve at these current volume levels and give us plenty of runway for future growth.
How about maybe infrastructure investments by your customers whether it's Energy or Chemicals.
Do those also help you carry more growth with the relatively efficient use of resources on your end? Absolutely they do Cleo.
And our customers are making significant investment to support themselves in the marketplace and help us serve them better all the time.
Our next question is from the line of Keith Schoonmaker of MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to return to the strong frac sand growth you mentioned and its divergence from the quarter's crude volume trends.
Could you share some color on broad customer behavior? For example what portion of sand shifts to wet versus dry wells.
And are you seeing changes in driller behavior such as more sand per well? Eric? So the second question more sand per well.
Absolutely.
There's a lot of technology changes that's allowing the drilling services industry to do longer laterals more laterals and that has been a driver of our sand growth all year long.
And we've talked about that in the past we'll continue to talk about that in the future.
In terms of where the sand is going to I think it's really being driven by the economics of the well.
Today you see lots of drilling in the Permian Basin lots of drilling in the Eagle Ford.
You see growing drilling in the Niobrara.
You see the Marcellus kind of resuming the levels of drilling that they had a couple of years ago.
And you see sand flowing to all of those places.
It's really driven by the economics of the shale play.
Research Division</strong> A significant portion of it is going to dry gas.
Is that correct here? If you look at where the sand is flowing today I think the shales that I just listed are the common places where the sand is flowing today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The capacity improvements you've outlined which is the biggest earliest lever to improve congestion.
Is it mode of power employees or infrastructure? I suspect you'll say all of the above.
Is it crew the biggest constraint? I wouldn't say all of the above.
First thing we're focused on is crews.
There are other constraints but crews is the primary one right now.
Our next question is from the line of Matt Trey [ph] with Nomura.
I had a question.
Given the systemic issues in truckload and driver shortage which by all appearances look like it's going to be a multi-year thing.
Is this an opportunity to examine your marketing strategy with Intermodal internally and potentially your usage of IMCs? I was just wondering if you're thinking about that.
Matt we evaluate our marketing strategy constantly.
And up until this point in time we continue to see IMCs as our primary carrier in the marketplace.
We think that model is solid and we are working very hard to work together with our IMC customers to improve service and to help them succeed in their marketplace.
I don't know Eric do you have anything to add to that? Okay.
I guess as a follow-up short haul versus long haul.
Traditionally we've kind of thought of about a 10% to 15% spread versus truck.
And in short haul Intermodal 40% 50% north in long haul.
Is that relationship still true? Are those numbers accurate? Have they narrowed? And if not is there an opportunity to narrow them given the issues in truckload? Eric? Yes.
I think what we've said is that the spread actually kind of depends on lanes and it could range from 35% 40% spread which is large so as narrow as a 10% or 15% spread.
And we think with our value proposition we'll continue to be able to narrow that spread and price closer and closer to truck as we improve our service and value propositions.
Our next question is from the line of Ben Hartford with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow on that final point in terms of the IMC partners.
How do you think about the strategy going forward? The trend over the past 10 years it seems has been fewer number of IMCs as opposed to more.
I'm just wondering how you think about that going forward given the fact that you do think that that strategy is a healthy and viable one.
Would you prefer to see a continued reduction in the number of IMC partners and really focus on scale and throughput and productivity to solve some of the constraints and to pursue market growth in Domestic Intermodal? Would you prefer more to help alleviate or kind of continue to strengthen your bargaining power? I'm just trying to think about that strategy over the next 5 years with regard to IMCs.
Eric? Yes Ben.
One of the things we realize is that it is a big wide broad market out there and you have lots of different customers and customers opportunities.
You have large customers the large retailers that probably will be managed with a small set of large IMCs.
But you have a large group of midsize and smaller customers that we believe at least at this time that you'll continue to have a broad base of smaller IMCs that will assist in servicing and addressing those channels.
And that's the reason for the strategy that Jack talked about where we continue to see the IMCs being a large portion of our go-to-market strategy.
At this time I'd like to turn the floor back to Mr.
Jack Koraleski for closing comments.
Great.
Thanks Rob and thank you all for joining us on the call today.
I was going to say we look forward to speaking with you in January but hopefully we'll see you November 5 in Chicago at our meeting.
And if not again we'll see you when we wrap up the year in January.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Union Pacific fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
A brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for todays presentation are available on Union Pacifics website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Jack Koraleski CEO for Union Pacific.
Welcome to Union Pacifics fourth quarter earnings conference call.
With me today here in Omaha are Eric Butler our Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; Lance Fritz our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Rob Knight our Chief Financial Officer.
This morning were pleased to report that Union Pacific achieved fourth quarter earnings of $1.61 per share an increase of 27% compared to the fourth quarter 2013 and another quarterly record.
Total volumes were up 6% with increases in all six of our business groups.
Industrial products and coal showed particular strength up 10% and 9% respectively.
These strong volumes along with solid core pricing and productivity helped drive 3.6 points of improvement on our operating ratio to a record 61.4% for the fourth quarter.
These strong fourth quarter results rounded out a full year 2014 which was very successful on many fronts.
We posted record financial results in revenue operating income earnings per share and operating ratio.
The strong demand we experienced back in the first quarter was sustained throughout 2014 driving total volume growth of 7% for the year.
Robust volumes challenged our network for much of the year and we remain focused on adding the necessary resources to safely improve service and were encouraged with the progress that were making.
We remain fully committed to delivery safe efficient value added service for our customers.
With that Im going to turn it over to Eric.
In the fourth quarter volume was up 6% as solid demand across our franchise led to volume gains in all of our business groups.
Strength in industrial products and goal led our volume gain for the quarter and intermodal and chemicals volumes were strong as well.
Growth moderated in ag products during the quarter as we are now comparing to the strong grain harvest in 2013.
Core price increased 3% which drove average revenue per car up by 3% in the quarter.
Our volume growth and improved average revenue per car combined to drive freight revenue up 9% which set a fourth quarter record of $5.8 billion.
Lets take a closer look at each of the six business groups.
Ag products revenue was up 9% in the fourth quarter on a 4% increase in volume and a 5% improvement in average revenue per car.
[Indiscernible] car loads were up 3% in the fourth quarter reflecting another record crop year for both corn and soybeans.
US corn production was up more than 3% and soybean production was up 18% over the 2013 crops.
We saw strong overseas export feed grain shipments this quarter partially offset by lower exports to Mexico as receivers switched to local supply.
Domestic feed grain shipments also contributed to our growth as lower corn prices drove demand.
Wheat car loadings continued to be a headwind as lower wheat prices drove down export shipments.
Grain products volume grew by 4% as strong gasoline demand and favorable export conditions drove another strong quarter of S&amp;L shipments.
Food and refrigerated shipments were up 4% for the quarter.
There was a strong domestic sugar beet crop which combined continued import beer growth to more than offset softer fresh and frozen food shipments.
Automotive revenue was flat in the fourth quarter on a 2% increase in volume.
Average revenue per car was down 2% driven by the previously reported change in the way we handle per diem shipments and also by mix.
As a reminder we lapsed the per diem change at the end of 2014 so we will not have this impact going forward.
Finished vehicle shipments were up 2% this quarter driven by continued strength in consumer demand.
The seasonally adjusted annual rate for North American automotive sales was 16.7 million vehicles for the fourth quarter up more than one million units from the same quarter in 2013.
Partially offsetting our volume gains was production variability at some key plants.
On the parts side increased production and a continued focus on over-the-road conversions drove a 2% volume increase.
In chemicals our revenue was 8% for the quarter on a 5% volume increase and a 3% improvement in average revenue per car.
Fertilizer shipments were up 17% in the fourth quarter driven primarily by strong international demand for pot ash and shipments of phos rock.
Crude oil volume was up 7% in the quarter.
We saw gains in shipments from the Niobrara and Uinta Basins which more than offset continued weakness in Bakken shipments caused by unfavorable price spreads.
Finally liquid petroleum gas storage shipments along with fuel additives and lube oil demand drove our petroleum and LPG shipments up 5% for the quarter.
Coal revenue increased 9% on a 9% increase in volume and a 15 increase in average revenue per car.
Southern Powder River Basin tonnage was up 17% for the quarter.
You will recall that we had an easy comp due to a snow storm that impacted shipments out of the Southern Powder River Basin in October 2013.
In addition strong demand from lower inventories and stock powder replenishment ahead of winter attributed to our growth and offset volume headwinds from our previously reported legacy contract loss.
Colorado Utah tonnage was down 11% for the quarter driven primarily by continued soft demand for export coal.
Industrial products revenue increased 15% on a 10% increase in volume and a 5% improvement in average revenue per car.
Non-metallic minerals were up 28% for the quarter again primarily driven by a 35% increase in frac sand shipments.
We continue to see demand for construction product shipments where volume was up 17% based on demand for aggregates and cement.
Lumber shipments were up 10% in the quarter driven by housing and non-residential construction [indiscernible] over-the-road truck to rail conversions.
Finally in intermodal revenue was up 11% driven by 6% increase in volume and a 5% improvement in average revenue per unit.
We had another strong quarter in domestic intermodal with volume up 10%.
New premium services and highway conversions continue to drive and led to a best ever fourth quarter in domestic intermodal.
Our international intermodal volume was up 2% as new business volume and continued economic strength in the US offset headwinds created by reduced west coast port productivity.
Lets take a look at how we see our business shaping up for 2015.
In ag products the strong corn and soybean crop and competitive corn prices should sustain domestic demand while worldwide grain inventories are relatively high creating a potential headwind for exports.
Ethanol margins are tightening which can lead to a reduction in ethanol production in the near term.
Longer term increased gasoline consumption and export opportunities should create strength in the ethanol market and demand for DPG should strengthen as China reenters the market.
We also anticipated another strong year of import beer growth.
In automotive finished vehicles and auto parts shipments will continue to benefit from strength in production and sales driven by an improving US economy replacement demand and lower gasoline prices.
Low inventory levels should continue to drive replenishment demand for coal into 2015.
Were watching natural gas prices closely but at this point we have not seen lower prices impact demand for coal.
We expect most of our chemicals market to remain solid in 2015 but we think crude oil will be a headwind throughout the year.
We will keep a close eye on oil prices as the year progresses as the recent drop has led producers to reevaluate their plans for 2015.
Ultimately if oil prices remain at current levels it will impact our crude oil shipments.
We also expect energy markets to be a factor in our frac sand volumes and industrial products.
The decline in oil prices has impacted rig counts so it is unlikely that we will see the robust levels of growth that we saw in 2014.
However our franchise is well positioned to participate in ongoing fracing operations.
Well have to see how the energy markets play out to see what the ultimate impact will be on our sand volumes.
Also in industrial products we expect the marketing construction products to continue particularly in the southern part of our franchise.
We also anticipate year-over-year improvement in housing and other construction markets to drive demand for lumber.
In intermodal consumer demand and highway conversions will drive growth in domestic intermodal in 2015.
In international intermodal we would expect increased imports to drive growth this year however the deterioration of productivity at west coast ports is having an impact on our volume early in the first quarter.
At this point while we are hopeful that the parties will come to a resolution soon international intermodal will be a headwind until the labor dispute is resolved.
To wrap up there are a number of uncertainties on the horizon.
Were keeping a close eye on the impact of crude oil prices softening global economies and the west coast labor dispute.
Overall we expect the US economy to continue to strengthen this year and drive growth in many of our business groups.
With our diverse franchise strong value proposition and continued focus on business development we expect to deliver another year of positive volume and profitable revenue growth.
With that Ill turn it over to Lance.
Ill start with safety where our full year results included a record low reportable personal injury rate of 0.98 an 11% improvement versus 2013.
Im very proud of the team as we made a nice step forward on our commitment that every employee returns home safely after each shift.
In rail equipment incidents or derailments our reportable rate improved 7% to 3.00 falling just short of an all-time record.
Enhanced TE&amp;Y training and continued infrastructure investment helped reduce the absolute number of incidents including those that do not meet the regulatory reportable threshold to a record low.
In public safety our grade crossing incident rate increased 5% versus 2013.
Driver behavior continues to be a critical factor in crossing incidents.
We continued to reinforce public awareness through community partnerships and public safety campaigns and focused our counter measures on high risk crossings.
In summary the team has made terrific progress on our goal of achieving annual safety records on the way to an incident free environment.
In regards to network performance we worked hard in 2014 to match network resources with the robust volume growth we enjoyed.
During the latter part of the fourth quarter our available resources were largely aligned with demand.
That combined with a successful Thanksgiving holiday operation and better winter action plans contributed to substantial service improvement in December.
The net result was sequential velocity improvement in each region of our network all while handling strong volumes.
While our velocity in December was more than a mile an hour faster in November and the best since January our service performance still fell short during the fourth quarter.
As reported to the AAR fourth quarter velocity was down 8% and freight car dwell up 11% when compared to 2013.
Our performance in December was a step in the right direction but we are still not where we need to be.
The team continues its relentless push to handle our customers growing volumes while improving service.
Moving to productivity volume trends from the first nine months of 2014 largely continued in the fourth quarter including relatively balanced growth in each region.
We continued to leverage volume by increasing train lengths.
During the fourth quarter we set best ever records in nearly all major categories.
The exception was in intermodal where new service offerings created a headwinds.
Even so we still generated a year-over-year increase in part reflecting our success in growing volumes within these lanes and our fuel conservation initiatives generated positive results in 2014 including a 2% improvement in the fourth quarter.
We found new opportunities to reduce waste and continued to deploy advanced technologies that assist the engineer in saving fuel and that optimize train [needs].
With the workforce and locomotives resourced to match demand we are positioned to generate both productivity gains and improved network fluidity.
Last year our total TE&amp;Y workforce increased by more than 1 700 employees and our active locomotive fleet increased by around 800 units.
Surge resources activated during the year accounted for some of the TE&amp;Y and most of the locomotive growth.
In addition to recalls we hired around 3 600 TE&amp;Y employees in 2014.
Approximately 1 000 of these new hires moved from training to active status during the last three months of the year.
For 2015 we plan to hire 2 800 TE&amp;Y employees to cover growth and attrition and to generate incremental service improvement.
We also plan to acquire 218 locomotives on top of the 261 units we purchased in 2014.
As 2015 unfolds we will adjust resources based on demand and network performance.
Rebuilding our surge resources is an important part of our operating strategy.
Capital investment in our track infrastructure has also helped us handle volume growth while maintaining a safe and resilient network.
In total we invested just under $4.1 billion in our 2014 capital program.
This includes $2.3 billion in replacement capital to harden our infrastructure and to improve the safety and resiliency of the network.
At the end of the year roughly 99% of our track miles were free of [indiscernible].
Spending for service growth and productivity totaled $1.4 billion driven by investments in capacity commercial facilities and equipment.
Major growth investments included the completion of our Santa Teresa New Mexico facility as well as the Tower 55 project in Fort Worth Texas both alleviated key bottlenecks.
We also invested $385 million in positive train control during 2014 bringing our cumulative PTC investment to $1.6 billion of the roughly $2 billion projected spend.
Assuming moderate economic growth our overall 2015 capital plan will likely be higher than last years spending.
New capacity investments will continue in the eastern third of our network and we will advance quarter strategies and reduce bottlenecks across the system.
Our core investment thesis will not waiver which is to maintain a safe strong reliable network and to invest in service growth and productivity projects that meet our aggressive return thresholds.
<br>To wrap up as we start 2015 our investment strategy is to continue to move our service volume frontier up and to the right.
As a result we expect to generate record safety results on our way to an incident free environment.
We expect to create opportunities through improved network performance and to continue working with connecting railroads on key gateway interchange performance and well invest in the resources and network capacity needed to overcome congestion and to handle increased demand.
Leveraging volume growth and productivity gains to drive incremental operating ratio improvement.
We will remain agile adapting and adjusting resources according to network performance and demand.
In fact weve already started to rebuild our surge plate moving around 100 older less efficient locomotives into storage and 400 or so employees into furlough or alternative work status.
Ultimately running a safe reliable and efficient railroad creates value for our customers and increased returns for our shareholders.
With that Ill turn it over to Rob.
Lets start with a recap of our fourth quarter results.
Operating revenue grew 9% to nearly $6.2 billion driven by strong volume growth and solid core pricing.
Operating expenses totaled just under $3.8 billion increasing 3% over last year.
The net result was operating income growing 20% to about $2.4 billion.
Below the line other income totaled $71 million up from $37 million in 2013.
Included in the $71 million was approximately $0.02 per share of onetime items including real estate gains.
Interest expense of $146 million was up 15% compared to the previous year primarily driven by increased debt issuance during the year.
Income tax expense increased to $867 million driven primarily by higher pretax earnings.
Net income grew 22% versus 2013 while the outstanding share balance declined 3% as a result of our continued share repurchase activity.
These results combined to produce best ever quarterly earnings of $1.61 per share up 27% versus last year.
Turning to our top line freight revenue grew 9% to nearly $5.8 billion.
This is driven primarily by volume growth of 6% and core pricing gains of 3%.
Fuel surcharge revenue was about flat for the fourth quarter as the decline in fuel price was offset by the lag in fuel surcharge program and higher volumes.
All in we estimate the net impact of the reduced fuel prices add $0.05 per share in the fourth quarter versus last year.
This includes both the surcharge lag and the lower diesel costs.
Business mix was also about flat for the quarter as the positive mix impact from frac sand volume was offset by the increase in lower average revenue per unit intermodal shipments during the quarter.
Other revenue increased 8% in the quarter.
Primary drivers included revenue associated with the per diem on auto parts containers as well as subsidiary related volume growth.
Recall that last January we began reporting per diem revenue on auto parts containers in other revenue as a result of a change in how we are compensated for this service and as Eric just mentioned weve now lapped that change on a year-over-year basis so we wont see a variance from the per diem going forward.
Slide 22 provides more detail on our core pricing trends in 2014.
Fourth quarter core pricing came in at 3% reflecting steady improvement throughout the year and a more favorable pricing environment.
For the full year core pricing was around 2.5% demonstrating our commitment to market pricing at reinvestable levels above inflation.
While 2014 was a legacy light year we do expect to see some benefit in 2015 for legacy renewals and Im pleased to announce we have successfully retained 100% of the legacy business that was up for renewal beginning in 2015.
In addition we have also successfully renegotiated a year early the legacy business that was due to expire in 2016.
With the exception of only a few small contracts in the out years we have now successfully addressed all of our remaining legacy contracts.
Moving onto the expense side Slide 23 provides a summary of our compensation and benefit expense which increased 7% versus 2013.
Higher volumes inflation and increased training expense were the primary drivers of the increase along with some increased cost associated with running a less than optimal network.
Looking at our total workforce levels our employee count was up 4.5% when compared to 2013.
At this point in time we plan to hire around 5 700 employees in 2015 to cover attrition of just under 4 000 as well as for volume growth and capital programs.
As Lance just discussed the bulk of this hiring will come in our TE&amp;Y ranks.
Labor inflation for 2015 is expected to come in between 4% and 5% for the full year.
This is driven primarily by agreement wage inflation.
Turning to the next Slide fuel expense totaled $813 million down 10% when compared to 2013.
A 7% increase in gross ton miles was more than offset by lower diesel fuel prices in the quarter.
Compared to the fourth quarter of last year our fuel consumption rate improved 2% while our average fuel price declined 14% to $2.66 per gallon.
Moving onto our other expense categories purchased services and materials expense increased 14% to $665 million due to volume related contract and subsidiary expenses higher locomotive and freight car material costs and crew transportation and lodging expenses.
Depreciation expense was $489 million up 7% compared to 2013 and in line with our 7% to 8% full year guidance.
In 2015 depreciation expense is expected to increase between 4% to 6% for the full year.
Slide 26 summarizes the remaining two expense categories.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $296 million which is 5% favorable when compared to 2013.
The favorability was primarily attributable to lower lease cost as a result of exercising purchase options on some of our leased equipment.
Other expenses came in at $228 million up $40 million versus last year.
Higher state and local taxes personal injury expense and damaged freight and equipment costs contributed to the year-over-year increase.
Other expenses finished the year up 9% within the range of our full year guidance of 5% to 10%.
For 2015 we expect the other expense line to again increase between 5% and 10% on a full year basis excluding any unusual items.
Turning to our operating ratio performance we achieved a quarterly operating ratio of 61.4% improving 3.6 points when compared to 2013.
The net impact of lower fuel prices contributed about 1.5 points of the improvement.
I am also pleased to report a full year operating ratio of 63.5% which is 2.6 points improvement from 2013.
As you will recall from our investor day event this past November we have issued new operating ratio guidance of a 60% operating ratio plus or minus on a full year basis by 2019.
Slide 28 provides a full summary of our 2014 earnings and a full year income statement.
Ill walk through a few highlights from our record setting year.
Operating revenue grew more than $2 billion to $24 billion.
Operating income totaled almost $8.8 billion topping 2013 by 18% and net income was just under $5.2 billion while earnings grew 22% to $5.75 per share.
Turning now to our cash flow in 2014 cash from operations increased to almost $7.4 billion up 8% compared to 2013.
After dividends our free cash flow totaled $1.5 billion for the year.
This is down $581 million from 2013 reflecting primarily higher cash capital and dividend payments along with the headwind of bonus depreciation.
Taking a closer look at 2015 we will see the benefit of 2014 bonus depreciation which was passed just before year end.
This benefit will nearly offset the cash tax payments associated with prior year programs.
As a result the net impact of bonus depreciation on this years cash flow will be close to neutral.
Slide 30 shows our 2014 capital program of just under $4.1 billion.
In 2015 we expect to increase our capital plans somewhat from 14s levels to approximately $4.3 billion pending final approval from our board of directors in February.
The chart on the right shows our improvement in generating returns on these investments over the last several years.
Return on invested capital was 16.2% in 2014 up 1.5 points from 2013.
Of course as weve said many times if you calculate it on a replacement basis our returns would be significantly lower.
In addition to funding our capital program our record profitability and strong cash generation enabled us to also significantly grow shareholder returns.
We increased our quarterly dividend per share twice in 2014 to $0.50 per share by the fourth quarter up 27% from the fourth quarter of 2013.
For 2014 we achieved a declared payout ratio of just above 33% up from 31.5% in 2013 and consistent with our new guidance of growing dividend payout target to 35%.
We also continue to be opportunistic in our share repurchases.
In the fourth quarter we bought back more than 7.7 million shares totaling $880 million.
For the full year purchases exceeded 32 million shares and totaled about $3.2 billion up 45% from 2013.
Our current repurchase authorization of up to $120 million shares over a four year time period went into effect January 1 2014.
About 88 million shares remain on that authorization as of yearend 2014.
When you combine dividend payments and share repurchases we returned almost $4.9 billion to our shareholders in 2014.
These combined payments represented a 37% increase over 2013 continuing our strong commitment to increasing shareholder value.
Taking a look at the balance sheet we increased our adjusted debt by approximately $2.1 billion in 2014 bringing our adjusted debt balance to $14.9 billion at year end.
This increases our adjusted debt to cap ratio to 41.3% up from 37.6% at yearend 2013.
This puts us in line with our guidance of an adjusted debt to cap ratio in the low to mid 40% range.
We also finished the year with an adjusted debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.4 and remain committed to our longer term guidance of an adjusted debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5 plus.
Thats a recap of the fourth quarter and full year results.
As we look ahead to 2015 we are well positioned to achieve yet another record year in many of our key financial measures.
Solid core pricing ongoing productivity initiatives and volume leverage opportunities assuming the economy cooperates should help drive continued margin improvement.
As Eric highlighted earlier we have growth opportunities across a variety of market sectors that should drive modest volume growth for the first quarter and the full year.
Well continue to focus on improving returns and generating strong cash flow which will support our ongoing capital investments as well as our commitment to increasing returns to our shareholders.
With that Ill turn it back to Jack.
As youd expect with 2014 behind us were intently focused on the year ahead.
Heres what its looking like.
Overall the US economy continues to move forward at a moderate pace but of course theres always some uncertainty out there.
Clearly one of the biggest uncertainties is the outlook for energy markets which will bring both challenges and opportunities as we move ahead.
Lower energy prices could slow the recent [shale] related domestic energy boom depending on how low the prices get and how long they stay there.
On the other hand lower gasoline prices could spur continued auto sales and help strengthen the consumer economy which would create opportunities in our other market segments.
On balance with all the pluses and minuses taken together we expect to see positive volume growth for the 2015 year.
Well watch closely and stay agile so that we can meet our customers needs across our diverse franchise.
Well also continue to build on the progress weve made in improving our network capability so that we can provide the safe reliable service our customers expect and deserve.
Were entering the year well-resourced and were looking forward to safely providing efficient value added service for our customers and increasing returns for our shareholders in 2015.
With that lets open up the line for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Allison Landry - Credit Suisse.
Thinking about frac sand in 2015 and the number of wells drilled is expected to be down somewhere in the 25% range and sort of offsetting that would be the better capitalized E&amp;P companies high grading and improving productivity per well if you sort of balance these factors do you think you can still grow frac sand carloads year-over-year? What scenario do you think volumes would outright contract? I think you have it exactly right where there are ins and outs in terms of there have already been reported probably about 20% rig reduction but the well capitalized companies are focused on continuing to drill where they could make their profit and theres a wide range of economics in all of the shales so thinking of all those factors.
Having said that I think it really is too early to tell how all of that is going to play out.
We certainly dont know if oil prices will remain this low.
If oil prices increase certainly thats going to be a lift for us so there are a lot of ins and outs.
We feel really really good that we have the premier franchise in terms of kind of frac sand coverage.
We have the best franchise for most of the major shales particularly the shales that will arguably still be profitable the Eagle Ford Permian you can see growth in the Niobrara.
Theres even rumblings about the Haynesville coming back.
We feel really really good about our franchise and our position and at this point we like everybody else is keeping a close eye on it.
Just as a follow up question Jack some of your comments at the end I think in terms of thinking about the broader economic benefit of lower oil prices sort of against the backdrop of weakness and shale related activity how do we think about this in terms of overall volume growth? Obviously theres a lot of puts and takes but are you thinking about it sort of as like a net-net neutral sort of on a relative basis with benefits maybe in autos consumer products etc.
and then that being offset by crude by rail frac? Could you help us think about that? I think your heads in the right place on that.
I think when you look at it I think popular opinion says consumer drives two thirds of the economy.
If consumers are having discretionary spending and theyre going to buy automobiles theyre going to build houses theyre going to buy new furniture consumer goods those kinds of things those kind of all hit right within the sweet spot of our franchise and weve seen that in the fourth quarter the construction products up 17% lumber up 10% automobile business the SAR at 16.7% so its not unreasonable to think that knocking on the door of $17 million for 2015.
Again when we add it all up pluses and minuses we think at the end of the year barring anything that is unusual that we havent seen at this point in time were going to still end up with positive volume by the time we get to the end of the year.
Your next question comes from Ken Exeter [ph] - Bank of America.
Rob when you set the operating ratio target fuel was much higher and you noted a 1.5 point benefit.
Are there any other offsets that dont get you to move up that timeframe? I guess if you think about the 1.5 point benefit from the 63.5 along with the repricing thats already locked in what can happen in terms of - is there a chance you hit that target in 2015 or is there something there that can offset that? Clearly this unprecedented fall off in fuel helped us and clearly if it stayed at this level or dropped even further that would be a contributor towards achieving our targeted 60 plus or minus operating ratio target.
But you know well see how fuel plays out.
Im not willing to bet that over the long haul fuel will stay where it is and the rest of the story if you will in terms of us running a safe efficient railroad getting core pricing squeezing out productivity so I think what the drivers are really going to get back to is our core fundamentals in the business that will enable us to get to that sub 60 as soon as we possibly can.
Ken said that 1.5 points came from fuel I dont think thats quite right is it? Just to clarify that because Im not sure I did catch exactly how you asked it but just to clarify the impact of fuel the benefit of the failing fuel price in the fourth quarter was about 1.5 points of benefit in the fourth quarter.
For the full year the benefit of the fuel was more like .7 of a helper on our operating ratio.
I was extrapolating that fourth quarter benefit through the year if we stayed at these lower prices.
If I could just get a follow up.
Eric you mentioned low nat gas prices can impact theres a lag before it impacts coal flows can you maybe delve into that a little bit? Talk about maybe the outlook for coal do we see one more quarter of replenishing stock piles and then starting in the second quarter we see a fall off with these prices or is it still kind of in that flux point even at these levels? In terms of PRB switching it seems like its already impacted the Colorado Utah side? Maybe you can delve into that a little bit? Weve historically said and I think the market convention was kind of the switch over point was below the mid twos for natural gas pricing.
The Colorado Utah impact was really an export coal world coal price impact its not a domestic US natural gas impact.
As we look forward were not really seeing a lot of switch over impact for us now.
We are still seeing replenishment.
As you suggested the inventory numbers for December should come out here in the next couple of days we still expect that inventories are going to be low when they come out here in the next couple of days but the other - weve said forever the real driver is weather and the economy and so that will be the ultimate driver for our coal volumes.
We do feel really good about where we stand from a position - one of the strategic factors that I think may have changed from the past is that if you go a year ago and what happened with natural gas prices there was a lot of volatility and I think theres been rethinking on many of the utilities to really think coal as a base line fuel as a risk hedge against the natural gas volatility.
For that reason I feel pretty good about our coal outlook.
Your next question comes from Justin Long - Stephens Inc.
I wanted to ask a question about intermodal.
I know this varies by lane but when you look at the price differential between intermodal and your truck in your network today whats the typical spread and how has that spread changed if at all over the course of the last couple of quarters as weve seen fuel prices come down? I think weve said historically that the spread can be pretty wide as much as 25% to 30% in some lanes and it can be narrow as low as 10%.
I think the factors that weve been talking about are still there or even growing.
The factors being driver shortages I think that is still a factor that is going to drive conversions.
If you look at the experience that weve had weve had another year of record domestic intermodal volumes.
You can look at our fourth quarter volumes and weve had new products and services.
Last year we talked a lot about the new services that we put in place.
We opened Santa Teresa so were entering new markets.
You still have driver shortages.
Growth in domestic intermodal is still a sweet spot.
There still is a gap there but as we are selling out value our goal is to grow volume and close that gap.
Maybe just as a follow up to that do you think that 2015 is a year where intermodal pricing mirrors contractual rate increases and truck load? Im just curious if this would be the best proxy truck load rate increases or if theres a reason you think intermodal pricing should be any different than truck load this year? We still think we have strong opportunity to grow price in our intermodal book of business.
If you look at what happened in 14 as demand increased on truck drivers etc.
some truck loads some truck entities have shorter term prices so they probably were able to respond quicker than entities that have longer term contractual arrangements but we feel really good about our opportunity to price going forward.
Your next question comes from Thomas Wadewitz - UBS.
I wanted to ask a bit about legacy contract repricing.
I think you highlighted that you were successful in retaining all that was coming due in 2015 and so that was good news but also pulled forward what was in 2015.
I think in the past you talked about - maybe it was a 2013 impact where you got like a 1.5 point boost to pricing to core price from legacy.
Given the success on legacy in 2015 should we think of that as higher than the 1.5 point impact to core price? Is it more like two points or above that? How can you kind of frame that legacy impact to core pricing in 2015? What Ill tell you is its a positive but were not going to give the specific numbers on that as we never have in terms of our guidance.
Were pleased with the business were pleased that we were able to compete and retain those contracts that we talked about for 15 and 16 and it will certainly be a positive contributor to our core pricing in 2015.
Is it reasonable to think its maybe a bigger impact than 2013? Im not going to answer that.
The caution that youve heard me say many many times is that I wouldnt straight line past performance and overlay that on top of these contracts.
When we report our pricing in the first quarter and beyond youll see that embedded in the pricing numbers that we report but Im not going to give any more details on it.
On a follow up question the industry had capacity challenges in 2014.
Your western competitor perhaps had greater challenges than others and I think its fair to say you probably gained some volume as a result of that.
How would you think about the impact of that to 2015 volumes? Their velocity seems to be improving.
I think you said you believe that youre adequately resourced so is there some volume that goes back to them potentially? Should we assume your volume growth slows down because you dont gain share like you did or how would we frame that potential impact from change in capacity and service performance of your competitor? I think overall when you look at the business we were able to move in 2014 the table is set for us to prove the value proposition of Union Pacific versus our competition and our competitor has always been right there chomping at the bit so its always a head-to-head competition in any one of those opportunities.
Our challenge and our ability to convince those customers that the Union Pacific value proposition is what fits in their business model more effectively is really what were all about here.
Yes we may lose some of that business we may gain some additional business well just have to see how the competitive world plays itself out in 2015.
Your next question comes from Tom Kim - Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to follow on Toms earlier question on the legacy reprice.
First off can you just quantify the amount that was up for renewal for 2016 as you highlighted what was for 2016 previously? I would just call your attention to the last pie chart that we showed at investor day.
The revenue that we reflected there which is based on historical by the way its not a projection of what those contracts are going to drive going forward but we said there was about $300 million of revenue in the legacy bucket for 2015 and about $140 million in that bucket for 2016 so those are the buckets were talking about here.
Just the same in regard to the timing should we factor this in sort of staggered over the course of the year or is this sort of a January one effect? If you could just give us a little bit of sense in terms of how to be thinking about how that flows through it would be helpful? The bulk of that $300 million for this year was front end loaded so we should start getting it relatively early on that piece this year.
Your next question comes from Scott Group - Wolfe Research.
I actually had one more follow up on the legacy stuff.
Rob is there any way to put some color on historically how much of the benefit of a legacy deal was in the base rate and how much was just getting a fuel surcharge for the first time? Could that suggest that maybe the legacy benefit isnt as good as maybe it would have been now that oil is much lower? Thats one question if you will.
Fuel not only in the legacy contracts but in all of our contracts will obviously play a role in what we report in average revenue per car or per unit.
But in terms of your question of can I give you some historical or shed some light on that the answer to that is no.
It was a combination of walking up the pricing on our historical legacy renewals and as you know rolling up or improving.
It wasnt always a case of going from zero to adequate.
In some cases there were fuel surcharge mechanisms in place in those old contracts we were just able to look at them and make sure that they were adequate.
I would say the same thing applies in this go around but trying to quantify or give you a percentage split I cant give you that.
Can you guys just give an update on what youre seeing at the west coast ports? What contingency plans you have in place in case theres a lock out and strike and just how youre thinking about what the impact there could be? Weve been staying very close to the situation and working with our customers.
Eric why dont you talk about some of the things that were doing and thinking about? I think you probably know that both sides did ask for federal mediation so that mediator was appointed I think last week or so and theyre going through the process.
I dont think we have any unique knowledge of how that process is going.
Were hopeful that the issue does get resolved.
We had put a contingency plan in place in the event of a work stoppage and weve communicated those to our customers in terms of the things that we will do to manage our network and do the best job we can of managing customer needs and expectations through a work stoppage.
As Jack said were staying close to it.
Im not sure we have any specific knowledge beyond the parties in a federal mediation that is going on.
Do you think just the uncertainty is going to have an impact on your volume or your ability to get price? The uncertainty has nothing to do with price the price is driven by kind of the market opportunities and the value of our product and that still remains.
Certainly in the short term BCOs are doing what they need to do to protect their supply chain.
Thats expected thats what has occurred at times in the past when similar labor issues have gone on in any port.
We think going forward that once the issues are resolved and theyre behind the whole supply chain effectiveness of the rail transportation network our rail transportation network with the ports of Long Beach LA still is a premier way of getting products into this country.
The Southern California west coast destination market is still a huge market so we are very comfortable going forward with the value of our franchise and our proposition once this labor issue is resolved.
Your next question comes from Rob [Zelman] - Deutsche Bank.
As a follow up to Allisons earlier question regarding the frac sand franchise could you give us a sense of how the split of that business is broken down by contracts versus tariff pricing and any sort of overall exposure that you guys have to the different shales? We dont talk about kind of the structure of our pricing by business.
We dont do that.
What I would say and if you refer back to some of the materials at the investor day we did share that the majority of our franchise is destined in the Eagle Ford and Permian shale plays.
I think we said about 60% of that but we do have a great broad franchise in all the shale plays whether you want to look at Niobrara Uinta if you want to look at Marcellus Haynesville etc.
we have a great franchise and so we think that does provide us a natural hedge for whatever the change is that the market and these low oil prices may bring.
Rob switching directions over to the core pricing side of the equation with the roughly $140 for 2016 will be experiencing step up in 2015 regarding that pricing or are you just kind of saying weve already agreed to lock in the pricing which will commence in 2016? Im not going to get into the details of that particular renewal.
Were confident with the business that we renewed.
We like the pricing we like the margins on it but in terms of the timing Im not going to get into that.
Your next question comes from Brandon Oglenski - Barclays Capital.
Eric in the past you guys have quantified your exposure to the frac sand the crude oil and the pipe.
Is there any way that you can just update investors right now with your aggregate volume exposure to those three segments? I think in the past and Im checking the number but I think in the past weve probably said about 5% of our volume is related to that.
I think thats about the number.
Just to be clear you were asking in total what is our oil frac sand market share percent of our volume and weve said 4.5% all in.
2.5% from the sand the rest like 1.5% from oil and then the remainder is some of the materials pipe etc.
just to kind of size our total.
I think Jack hit on it earlier that youre seeing quite a bit of improvement in your construction markets so can you talk about - and I know this might be more difficult to quantify but whats your exposure to non-res construction or even housing starts and how do you weigh that versus where you think construction projects were going into the energy markets and does that become a net benefit for you going forward? I think what youre asking is geographically where are our markets.
Weve shared before kind of the fastest growing states are kind of in the southwest and the west and then the southeast.
Certainly when you think about the south to the southwest and the west we have a great franchise exposure to those.
Certainly some of the growth has come from the energy related growth in Texas particularly around the Houston market but were seeing good growth in our construction products in housing in non-Houston non-Texas markets also.
Your next question comes from Jason Seidl - Cowen and Company.
You mentioned that theres probably going to be a little shift change between international and domestic intermodal particularly in 1Q given whats going on in the ports.
Can you remind us the impact thats going to have on your intermodal yields? We have not discussed what our yield are by our intermodal business.
We are seeing positive trends in yields across our book of business whether its domestic or international because of our strong pricing and we expect that trend to continue.
Ill ask it a different way.
Is there any big difference between the length of haul between domestic and international? Theres not a significant difference in the length of hauls between those two.
Theres a minor difference because again our domestic business runs east west from the west coast kind of to the Midwest Chicago and Midwest interchange and our international business runs over that same route.
The minor difference would be the mix of our business that runs north south which would have a shorter length of haul.
Sort of related as a follow up I guess this may be a little bit more for Lance but obviously the rail industry was challenged in 14 operationally it impacted sort of everybodys bottom line.
Can you talk about productivity gains assuming everyone shows a little bit of improvement this year in 2014 if we can put a number on it? Without putting a number on it Ill remind you that as we discussed going through 2014 we said we were getting significant productivity and probably a little bit aberrational in that we would have liked to have more crews and locomotives to run the network.
As we move into 2015 we expect to continue to get productivity.
I would expect it maybe not to be quite as turbo charged as it was in 2014 because well now be matched in terms of resources to demand but we will get productivity continuing in 2015.
Especially when the cycle times improve were able to pull locomotives out of - put them back in storage pull them out of service those kinds of things.
Those are the least productive units that well be storing so there is just some natural productivity occurs as velocity spools up.
I think our latest numbers that we reported is a velocity of 25.3 and headed in the right direction so we feel good about that.
Your next question comes from Chris Wetherby - Citigroup.
Thinking about pricing for a second if we put legacy aside and think about sort of the underlying potential of the business into 2015 it would appear that were sort of getting a little bit of inflection more positively throughout the year of 2014.
I just want to get a rough sense of how you think about that outlook for sort of everything ex legacy as we think about the next year? Sort of what youve had the opportunity to touch and maybe what could be coming up? As weve said throughout 2014 and as were saying today we feel good about our market value and our opportunity for pricing and we have a strong value proposition the economy is strengthening and were excited about our ability to get price going forward.
We dont really see anything thats changing our view on our pricing model at this point in time.
Reinvestability has to be the threshold to get onto the Union Pacific franchise price to market take advantage of opportunities across the franchises as we see them and we dont see anything thats happened here recently that would cause us to veer from that at all.
As a follow up on the intermodal side just thinking about the international intermodal side with whats going on in the west coast ports and the sort of prolonged period of negotiations there do you have any sense that some of the disruptions that youre seeing may ultimately be permanent or semi-permanent as shippers look for other alternatives? Weve talked about this before in the past and my guess is most likely business comes back once we get resolution but I just want to get a rough since maybe how we should be thinking about that.
Do you hear that at all? I think youre exactly right.
Certainly any shipper in terms of while this uncertainty is here theyre trying to identify options to protect their supply chain and you see that for example right now with growth into Oakland or shippers trying to get into Oakland which is part of our franchise also.
Long term the port of LA Long Beach is in a sweet spot in terms of the connectivity with the rail network our network our competitor network.
Long term the expectation is once these things are behind that will be the preferred option for shippers.
Your next question comes from David Vernon - Bernstein Research.
A couple on trying to get some help in modeling forward RPUs.
As you think about the demand outlook I think weve talked about in terms of crude oil and frac sand should we also be expecting that with reduced demand for sand or oil transportation theres also going to be an impact on the RPU or is the pricing going to be pretty well divorced from the supply/demand economics in the underlying commodity? As Ive said before we still feel really good about our franchise and our strength and our value proposition.
We still see upside opportunity to drive value and to drive price in that market.
But say the price of frac sand goes down a lot should we expect that the producer is going to eat that or theres going to be a little bit of pain shared between the producer and their transportation partner? We have never and we dont anticipate ever tying our value of our transportation products to commodity price values.
Then maybe just as a quick follow up as you think about the outlook as we talked about it maybe a little weaker depending on what oil prices do maybe a little stronger on construction as you think about that mix impact would you expect that the average RPU on the construction stuff that would be growing would be directionally better or worse than maybe some of the oil related stuff thats going to be coming down? Im not looking for specifics Im just trying to get a sense of directionally what impact that mix should be having on the result.
I think overall when you look at it it will depend on which market.
So if its a manifest business if its a lumber business things like that tend to have a somewhat longer haul than some of our frac sand.
But you know there are so many moving parts to this that its pretty difficult for us to say what mix is going to come our way as we look ahead to the year.
Can you give us any insight into that directional sort of average construction unit versus the average crude and frac unit higher or lower? <br>The answer is no to your specific question.
Youve heard me say many times that we avoid giving any guidance on average revenue per car and thats not a negative thing.
I think what it says is the strength of the UP franchise is so diverse that we play in multiple markets and just because one piece of business has a lower average revenue per unit is not a bad thing it might have a higher margin.
That doesnt bother us when we see an average revenue per unit go up or down because it speaks to the diversity it speaks to the mix.
In every case were focused on improving our margins.
The other thing thats clearly going to impact average revenue per unit right now and potentially throughout the year is going to be the impact of fuel so youre going to see I think some swings up or down but that in and of its self doesnt trouble us and we cant give guidance on that.
Your next question comes from William Greene - Morgan Stanley.
Rob I wanted to ask a question on the cost side and that is theres a sense that given the number of locomotives and employees that weve added and embedded in the cost structure if volumes disappoint us perhaps in the second half of the year or whatnot for whatever reason that youve embedded a kind of fixed nature into this cost structure.
Can you speak to the variability of the cost structure how much you could take out if you had to adjust because the markets turned against us in ways we dont expect? I would answer that by saying were not projecting that.
As you know our guidance is positive volume for the year with all the moving parts.
But to your point I think weve sort of proven over the years when there are times when the economy goes south on us that weve taken the right steps and Lance highlighted some of them in his talks the furlough opportunities the storage of the less efficient units.
If you had to go deeper youve got opportunities to consolidate terminal operations etc.
so without putting a number on it I would just tell you that thats something that we take pride in in terms of being agile and being able to react to market conditions.
So as Lance pointed out in his comments we feel like were fully resourced right now with people and locomotives.
We played catch up if you will through the back half of 2014 and were confident that theres still opportunities to grow our business and weve got attrition on the labor front still in front of us so were confident well make the right steps should what youre outlining play out.
Then Jack I wanted to ask you more on the legislative front weve seen that Senator Thune is potentially going to put forward the bill that hes talked about in the past.
I dont know how much of the bill youve seen but maybe you can speak a little bit to is this the sort of thing that you can work with them on? Is there something here that we could get out of this or is it all sort of bad news and wed rather keep the status quo as we have? Can you speak to any of that? I think Senator Thune has kind of opened the door to comments and working with the industry and asking us what we think about the provisions of the bill and things like that.
Weve been able to provide some input.
As always we try to be a positive voice at the table and look at both the good opportunities as well as the challenges that each piece of legislation presents and I have no concern that we wont be able to do that again.
I think well have an opportunity here to help shape that piece of legislation and work to mitigate any of the negative consequences and hopefully even add some positives for us.
Your next question comes from Matt Troy - Nomura Securities.
The service issues that plagued the industry through much of 2014 each carrier to varying degrees operations seem to have stabilized if you talk to a lot of the IMCs out there kind of mid to early fourth quarter with some improvement.
Im just wondering the next two months are critical from a weather perspective what specific steps are you taking - you talked about the loco adds and the crew additions and the headcount additions but what do you see as the critical focal points of your service remediation improvement plans lets call it in the first three to four months of the year as we look at a winter that so far has been benign? Matt one thing weve done is learn from last years experience during very difficult weather environments and weve beefed up our winter action plans.
That includes that at any sign of inclement weather 24/7 command centers locally that can make the right adjustments and calls on the ground.
Weve taken advantage of this benign weather and done some engineering work on our track that is positioning us better for the spring thaw so Im very pleased with that.
Weve also been working with our interchange partners at critical gateways like Chicago to put in early warning systems that are more robust and have more robust action plans around them and theyve actually kicked in at different points during this winter during bitter cold periods and proven to be very effective.
Im really really pleased with how were navigating this winter notwithstanding that in certain parts of our territory been a more benign winter than last year.
A follow up question would be just to clarify on the surcharge there seems to be varying opinions out there in terms of the potential benefit of lower fuel costs if they were to remain down where they are currently.
If oil stays kind of in this mid $40 range is it fair to think about you had mentioned I think something to about the tune of $0.05 of a benefit from lower fuel costs in 4Q if I just look at the slope and the two month lag it would imply something similar maybe $0.01 or $0.02 higher.
Is that a fair assumption with fuel where it is and should we expect thereon if fuel stays down here at the same level that it becomes somewhat of a wash in second quarter and beyond? Just trying to think about kind of the benefit.
I know its a long run net/neutral but just timing is obviously an issue here if you could help us there that would be great.
Matt under your assumption if fuel kind of stayed in the same neighborhood it is in the first quarter I would expect that the first quarter looks similar to what we saw here in the first quarter or so and thats consistent with your thinking.
Beyond that there are 60 plus surcharge mechanisms and were not guiding that fuel is going to stay flat forever but we endeavor of course to keep the cost impact neutral so if it did just flatten out that would be certainly our objective.
It doesnt usually play out that way but I dont think youre thinking about it wrong.
Your next question comes from Jeff Kauffman - Buckingham Research.
Just a follow up I think most of my questions have been answered at this point.
I think you mentioned a higher amount of labor cost per employee inflation in 2015.
Could we delve into a little bit more detail on that? In particular Im thinking more on the pension and benefit side can you talk about any headwinds that youll have in 2015 there? I said that the labor inflation line for 15 was going to be more in the 4% to 5% range and really the big driver of that is wage inflation.
There were a couple of kicks if you will at wage increases in the contracts that were negotiated several years ago and theres a kick up of call it half a point or so in that number of higher pension expense as well and those are the two main drivers.
Okay so mostly base wage? Yes.
Your next question comes from Keith Schoonmaker - Morningstar.
With Santa Teresa open now could you highlight two or three of the capital investments you expect to be most impactful in the next couple of years? Lets go around the railroad a little bit start down in southeastern part of our network.
Weve been increasing our capital investment in Texas Louisiana up into Oklahoma and Kansas both in our north/south routes and in the Texas area.
Thatll continue and pay very big dividends for a multitude of commodities that use those routes.
We have added about 40 miles of double track on the Sunset.
Were going to continue to add double track there.
Were at a point now were about 80% double tracked on that route so that will be good.
Were adding some capacity in the P&amp;W for our critical bulk and premium routes.
Were adding capacity in Chicago.
We have a public/private partnership project on our primary corridor in and out of Chicago which is the Geneva Sub to triple track a critical portion of thats shared with a metro service and that will be very very helpful.
Weve also announced a Hearne new network terminal in the middle of Texas and I think at the investor day we talked about a $600 million kind of number and a 25 000 daily car count kind of number and that will be very impactful probably taking us the next two and a half years or so to build maybe a little bit more.
A question on intermodal looking at the AAR velocity data it appears you maintained your intermodal velocity quite well even when overall velocity slowed a bit.
I recognize that velocity is only one measure but could you speak perhaps to your on time performance within intermodal? Is it where you want it or excluding new intermodal lane offerings is it still an area in which you expect a little improvement? We do expect improvement in intermodal.
If you look backwards I would not be as charitable in terms of our premium intermodal service in 2014 as you were.
Our expectations were for better performance than that.
We were able to differentiate the service compared to other services we provide.
A real positive note is that in the peak season ending the year we performed very well and as were entering this year that same level of performance has sustained.
There are opportunities on certain lanes in our premium domestic intermodal franchise but it is showing better service and I anticipate it will continue to show better service this year.
Your next question comes from [Denis Hartman] - Robert W.
Baird.
Going back to the west coast issues putting aside some of the labor disputes at the moment how much conversation have you had with some of the international intermodal shippers that are more reluctant today than they have been in the past to allow some of their containers to free flow inland and more interested in doing trans loading activity to make sure the containers get back to Asia? Can you talk about any sort of conversations that you might be having that could affect international intermodal volumes in 2015 and presumably to the benefit of some trans loading in domestic intermodal activity? As you mentioned that has been a trend going on for probably three to four years where international shippers are seeing a value proposition of letting their [ISO] boxes or international boxes to just destine on the west coast trans load into a domestic box and then go inland.
So that trend we have been seeing for probably three or four years.
We think that that is a trend that will probably continue mainly because a lot of the BCOs as part of their supply chain organizations are using the trans loading function as part of their kind of distribution management strategy so its less kind of a transportation driven issue but its kind of their overall warehousing and distribution center management strategy.
We think that is a trend it will continue.
I dont think that west coast labor issues have any particular significant long term change to that trend that has been going on for several years.
When we look at some of the expected weakness in international intermodal in 2015 we should subscribe it to the ongoing labor dispute and not an acceleration of that trans loading trend? That would be the assessment right now.
Your next question comes from Cleo Zagrean - Macquerie.
My first question is related to the impact of the recent volatility in the energy markets on your investment in business development.
Please help us understand how you are thinking about it.
Are you looking at winners and losers from an environment of sustained [load] prices? Are you expecting these to recover? For example is the southern chemical franchise less of an urgency and consumer related areas more in focus? Please highlight a few areas that are gaining traction in business development for you this year? Im not quite sure exactly what the question is.
I would say we are continuing a focus on business development.
Energy even with the recent volatility still I think has some positive drivers for us in North America because we still have relatively low energy price and in fact even lower energy prices than what we thought earlier.
That is going to be a positive driver for things like chemicals production in this country.
Thats going to be a real positive driver in terms of continuing the trend that weve seen or near sourcing.
Weve talked in the past about trends of manufacturing moving back to North America.
We think thats still - if anything its going to be even a more positive driver from some of the volatility so we still think thats positive.
I think one of the things as we look at this and as we talk to our customers first of all this is still a relatively early phenomena in terms of the dramatic reduction in oil prices that weve seen.
Nobody that I can find expects that this is going to be a long term trend and certainly no one at this point in time has made any decisions to alter long term capital facility expansions or things like that.
I think its just way too early to see if this is sustainable trend in energy prices.
My second question relates to operations productivity specifically.
Can you share with us a few operating initiatives that your team is most excited about this year so that apart from volume and price impact on the operating ratio we can get a sense of where you might gain the next important improvement in the OR? One of the things that we talk about routinely that continues to be an exciting opportunity for us is the penetration of [indiscernible].
Our interpretation of lean manufacturing principles and Cameron and the operating team in fact the whole corporation is doing a wonderful job of absorbing those principals turning them into projects and action plans and removing variability out of the network.
I can see dozens of different projects at any given time that are going to be paying off either from a productivity perspective a safety improvement perspective or a service improvement perspective.
Thats the first thing I would highlight.
The second thing I would highlight is weve got a very robust menu of capital investment that is gaining significant traction as we enter this year and each one of those critical investments is going to make an improvement in safety in service and in productivity and unleash different bottlenecks around the network.
Im just really really jazzed with what weve got facing us for the coming year.
Your next question comes from John Engstrom - Stifel.
Im looking at intermodal and Im trying to tease out the story which is a difference between competition with truck versus having low diesel prices versus a weaker tail season things of that sort also with a soft year on your baseline.
Can you talk to me a bit about given your sequential decline in car loads how you think about what the primary drivers were behind that? Youre talking about an intermodal sequential decline in car loads? What are you looking at? Yes Im looking at the sequential decline between 3Q and 4Q just given the year-over-year comps are a little challenging given the winter in December last year.
Im just trying to tease that story out.
Again the international side for our intermodal business all of the west coast labor challenges through the fourth quarter all of the uncertainty.
The domestic side of our intermodal business with the new products and services and the road truck conversions and the whole story about truck availability and all of that weve had a record year on the domestic side of the intermodal business.
One follow up question on capacity.
We talked a little bit about adding crews and locomotives as a primary lever behind velocity.
Im wondering if you can talk a bit about your cap ex investments in Fort Worth Robertson County opening up Santa Teresa and if you also see that increase capacity as being another lever which is sort of beneficial for you guys on velocity and theres a bit of a tradeoff moving forward? Absolutely the investments that you outlined have helped us in terms of velocity and service performance.
You take just a little snapshot like Fort Worth and Tower 55 we increased speed through that facility on both the north/south and east/west route.
We increased capacity adding the ability to run an incremental 20 trains a day through the facility and we reduced the complexity of the facility itself and simplified its signal systems which is a safety enhancement.
One project that did all three and weve been seeing the benefit of it and on that particular route that impacts our manifest product to and from the shale play it impacts our premium intermodal product from the west coast to the southwest United States.
You outlined it just right.
Your next question comes from John Barnes - RBC Capital Markets.
Just two quick ones.
Number one on the west coast issue if in the event that there is a more pronounced labor action and as much as a shutdown how much will that impact service level immediately in terms of just equipment balances and then once normal operations resume how long does it normally take you to recover from those imbalances and get the intermodal network the velocity there back up to normal levels? We have been monitoring it closely already taking steps storing equipment and staging them in critical locations so that if the next move takes place of a total shutdown we will embargo we will lock down and not allow the congestion of the ports to impede on the velocity of the rest of our networks.
We cant allow that to happen so we have plans in place to take those steps.
Weve communicated with customers about our intent to do exactly that in the event of a total shutdown and I feel pretty well about our ability to stage and think about this so that if it does happen we will have positioned ourselves for a quick return once services have been restored to the ports? Secondly the eastern rails have talked a little bit about that their coal franchise has become more surge dependent than base load dependent and therefore more dependent on heating days and cooling days.
Where do you believe your coal franchise stands in that paradigm? Are you close to a point where its more surge dependent or is the cost benefit still close enough that youre still seen as a vital piece of the base load in the western US? Coal remains a vital piece of the base load energy in the western US.
It is a critical part of utility and manufacturing fuel source.
If you think about it our coal business has been very dependent upon weather whether you have cold or hot summers and those kinds of things and so to that extent there is some surge component.
But I think the interesting thing that Eric talked about in his remarks is a realization that a coal base kind of helps cushion against the volatility of natural gas and I think that realization on the part of the utilities is making it a little more stable than what most people would think.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Jack Koraleski for closing comments.
Thanks everybody for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to speaking with you again in April.
This concludes todays teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Union Pacific First Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions].
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Lance Fritz President and CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you.
Mr.
Fritz you may begin.
Good morning everybody and welcome to Union Pacific's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
With me here today in Omaha are Eric Butler our Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; Cameron Scott Executive Vice President of Operations; and Rob Knight our Chief Financial Officer.
This morning Union Pacific is reporting net income of $1.2 billion or $1.30 per share for the first quarter of 2015.
This is a 9% increase in earnings per share compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Solid core pricing gains in the quarter were partially offset by a sharp drop in volume.
While we took actions during the quarter to adjust for the volume decline we did not run an efficient operation.
Total first quarter volumes were down 2% with particular softness in coal industrial products and intermodal.
Throughout last year we worked to add the people locomotives and capacity needed to meet a dramatic increase in demand.
By the end of 2014 we had seen full-year volume growth of 7% and we were fully resourced to meet this demand.
Over the last few months however volume has shifted negative.
As a result our operation is in catch-up mode and not as efficient as it should be.
Managing a network is a constant balancing act to ensure you have the right resources in the right place at the right time.
This balancing act becomes more difficult during significant volume swings.
We're taking the steps to align our resources with current demand while remaining agile in an ever-changing environment.
We remain committed to safely providing excellent service for our customers while improving that service and our financial performance.
With that I'll turn it over to Eric.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
In the first quarter our volume was down 2% driven by challenges in some key markets.
Automotive and ag products volume grew with declines in coal industrial products intermodal and chemicals.
Milder winter weather and natural gas prices drove softer coal demand lower crude oil prices reduced demand for shale-related shipments and we also experienced the effects from the drawn-out west coast labor port dispute.
I'll talk about more specifics as we walk through each group.
Fuel surcharge revenue reduction negatively impacted average revenue per car and was a 4% head wind on freight revenue.
However solid pricing gains across our business led to a core price improvement of 4% which combined with a 1% mix and drove average revenue per car up 1%.
Overall freight revenue was down 1% as the strong pricing gains and mix were offset by lower volume and fuel surcharge revenue.
Let's take a closer look at each of the six business groups.
Ag products revenue increased by 3% on a 3% volume increase and a 1% improvement in average revenue per car.
Grain volume was down 2% this quarter.
We continue to see strong demand for overseas export feed grain shipments particularly through the Gulf and Mississippi River.
Those gains were offset primarily by declines in wheat exports and to a lesser degree softer demand for domestic feed grain.
Grain products volume was up 4% for the quarter.
Ethanol volume grew 7% driven by increased gasoline consumption and export demand.
We also saw increased export demand for soybean meal and a strong canola crop drove increases in canola meal shipments.
Food and refrigerated shipments were up 3% driven primarily by continued strength in import beer partially offset by slightly lower refrigerated food shipments.
Automotive revenue was up 6% in the first quarter on a 7% increase in volume partially offset by a 1% reduction in average revenue per car.
Finished vehicle shipments were up 11% this quarter driven by continued strength in consumer demand and reduced impact from winter weather.
The seasonally adjusted annual rate for North American automotive sales was 16.6 million vehicles in the first quarter up 6.4% from the same quarter in 2014.
Auto parts volume grew 3% this quarter driven primarily by increased vehicle production.
Chemicals revenue was flat for the quarter with a 2% improvement in average revenue per car offsetting a 1% volume decline.
Plastics shipments were up 8% in the first quarter as stability in resin prices resulted in improved buyer confidence in the market.
Strength in fertilizer demand this quarter drove volume up 10%.
The slight delay in last fall's harvest pushed some application into the first quarter of this year.
We also saw strength in export markets particularly to China.
Finally lower crude oil prices and unfavorable price spreads continue to impact our crude oil shipments which were down 38% for the first quarter.
Coal revenue declined 5% in the first quarter.
Volumes were down 7% partially offset by a 3% improvement in average revenue per car.
Southern Powder River Basin tonnage was down 1% for the quarter.
We experienced a very mild winter this year which combined with low natural gas prices to reduce demand for coal.
Colorado Utah tonnage was down 32% for the quarter as a mild winter and low natural gas prices drove receiving utilities to switch to other fuel sources.
Colorado Utah tonnage was also impacted by soft demand for coal exports.
Industrial products revenue was up 1% as a 3% decline in volume was offset by a 3% improvement in average revenue per car.
We continue to see strength in construction products where volume was up 4% for the first quarter.
Demand for rock was strong in the quarter particularly in the southern part of our franchise.
Metals volume was down 17% as lower crude oil prices significantly reduced new drilling activity.
In addition the strong U.S.
dollar drove increased imports which reduced demand from domestic steel producers.
Our government and waste shipments declined 8% in the quarter primarily driven by a temporary reduction in short-haul waste shipments.
As a side note our minerals business was not a key driver in industrial products this quarter; but I wanted to mention the fact that our frack sand volume was up 3%.
Demand remains strong in January but tailed off significantly in March.
I will talk more about our outlook in a moment.
Turning to intermodal revenue was down 5% driven by a 3% decrease in both volume and average revenue per unit.
Due to the structure of intermodal fuel surcharge programs there was a greater average revenue per unit impact to intermodal this quarter than seen in other commodities.
Domestic shipments grew 9% in the first quarter setting an all-time first-quarter record for volume.
We continued to see strong demand from highway conversions and for our new premium services.
International intermodal volume was down 12% driven by the west coast port labor dispute which stretched late into the quarter.
We're encouraged that the parties have come to a tentative agreement and we're working with our customers to reduce the backlog and return to normal.
Let's take a look at our outlook for the rest of the year.
In ag products we expect grain volume to return to normal seasonal patterns through the third quarter and we anticipate exports will favor shorter-haul shipment to the Gulf and river in the near-term.
As always we're keeping a close eye on planning reports and the weather to determine what the next crop will look like.
In grain products we think the ethanol market will remain strong and DDGs will remain steady throughout the year.
Finally we anticipate continued strength in our import beer business and we see potential upside in refrigerated shipments.
In automotive finished vehicles and auto shipments should continue to benefit from strength in sales driven by a healthy U.S.
economy replacement demand and lower gasoline prices.
Coal volume will largely be dependent on the weather this summer and natural gas prices.
If natural gas prices remain in the current range it will be a head wind throughout the year.
Also the latest inventory figures show that stockpiles are significantly up from last year and are now above the five-year historical average which will likely lead to continued softness.
We think most of our chemicals markets will remain solid this year though we expect that crude oil prices will remain a significant head wind for crude by rail shipments for the rest of the year.
Lower crude oil prices will also impact some of our industrial products markets.
We expect metals to continue to experience head winds as capital investments for new drilling activities are reduced.
As I mentioned earlier frack sand shipments were up modestly in the first quarter but we expect to be meaningfully lower year over year starting in the second quarter as demand softens and we come up against tougher comps.
On the positive side we think continued strength in the construction and housing market should drive growth in aggregates and lumber.
Finally we anticipate strong demand for domestic intermodal to continue throughout the year primarily from highway conversions.
For international intermodal we expect a backlog recovery to continue for the next few weeks then return to normal seasonal patterns for the remainder of the year.
Both domestic and international intermodal should benefit from the strength in consumer demand in the U.S..
To wrap up we're experiencing some volume head winds created by uncertainty in the coal market and crude oil prices but we see opportunities in other markets.
While top-line revenue will be impacted by lower fuel surcharge revenue we expect solid core pricing gains for the year.
As always our strong value proposition and diverse franchise will support new business development efforts throughout the year.
With that I will turn it over to Cameron.
Thanks Eric and good morning.
I'll start with our safety performance which is the foundation of our operations.
The first quarter 2015 reportable personal injury rate improved 23% versus 2014 to a record low of 0.85%.
These results are a validation that our comprehensive safety strategy is working and we're focused on the right things.
I am very proud of the team's commitment to find and address risk in the work place.
In rail equipment incidents or derailments our reportable rate increased 6% to 3.16.
To make improvement going forward we continue to focus on enhanced TE&amp;Y training and continued infrastructure investment to help reduce the absolute number of incidents including those that do not meet regulatory reportable thresholds.
In public safety our grade crossing incident rate improved 27% versus 2014 to a first-quarter record mark of 1.88.
Our strategy of reinforcing public awareness through community partnerships and public safety campaigns is generating results and we will continue our focus in these areas to drive further improvement.
In summary the team has made a nice step function improvement in several areas that is generating results on our way towards an incident-free environment.
Moving to network performance as we discussed we worked hard in 2014 to match network resources with the robust volume levels of 2014.
During the latter part of the fourth quarter our available resources were largely aligned with demand helping generate the sequential velocity improvement in the network.
While we have largely held those velocity levels made in December we still have more work to do as we exit the first quarter that provided more favorable weather conditions but one that also saw more extensive track renewal programs on key corridors.
While our velocity in the first quarter was almost one mile an hour faster than the first quarter of 2014 our service performance still fell short.
As reported to the AAR first-quarter velocity and freight car dwell were about flat when compared to the first quarter of 2014.
However the team continues a relentless push to improve service and reduce costs.
While productivity was not where we wanted it to be we did generate some efficiencies even with the decline in volumes during the first quarter.
We achieved record train lengths in nearly all major categories including in automotive where we leveraged an 11% increase in finished vehicle shipments with a 5% increase in average auto train length.
Our terminal productivity initiatives also continue to generate positive results as car switch per employee day increased 3%.
But our sub-optimal services performance and timing issues with readjusting resources lead to inefficiencies during the quarter.
One example of this is locomotive productivity as measured by gross ton miles per horsepower day which was down 6% versus 2014.
As for our efforts to readjust resources while we chase volume up -- while we chased volume on the way up last year it's been a different story in the first part of 2015 with some softer volumes we have seen thus far.
To balance our resources to current demand we have placed around 500 TE&amp;Y employees into furlough or alternative work status.
We have also reduced our original TE&amp;Y hiring plan downward by 400 and are now planning to hire around 2 400 TE&amp;Y employees for the year.
Of course we will continue to monitor and adjust our work force levels and hiring plans throughout the year as volume dictates.
The same process is under way with our locomotives.
By the end of the quarter we had already moved 475 units back into storage and continue to look at every opportunity to further reduce our active fleet.
Also our planned acquisition of 218 units this year will further improve our overall reliability and efficiency.
We have experienced a timing lag in getting our resources aligned with demand but we're intently focused on balancing our resources and reducing our costs as the year progresses.
We're also adjusting our 2015 capital program down $100 million to approximately $4.2 billion.
We will continue to invest to improve the safety and resiliency of the network including more than $1.8 billion in infrastructure replacement programs.
Our capital program also includes continued investment for service growth and productivity which are primarily concentrated on the southern region of our network; but which also include corridor strategies that reduce bottlenecks across the system.
This reduction does not impact our core investment strategy which is to maintain a safe strong and resilient network and to invest in service growth and productivity projects where returns can justify the investment.
I would also like to give a quick update on positive train control.
As most of you know the rail industry has been required to install PTC by the end of 2015.
The required development and testing of this new technology has been challenging.
Nonetheless we have been moving forward investing approximately $1.7 billion thus far to complete the mandate.
Now that the scope of the project has been better defined we've updated our total project investment in PTC to approximately $2.5 billion.
Although UP will not meet the current 2015 deadline we have been making good faith effort to do so including field testing since October 2013.
The industry has been working to extend the deadline and I think there is general understanding on Capitol Hill that this has to happen.
While we remain hopeful that an extension will be passed our overall investment in the program will not be contingent on the deadline.
To wrap up as we continue on in 2015 we expect to continue generating record safety results on our way to an incident-free environment.
We expect to leverage the strengths of our franchise to improved network performance.
We will invest in the resources and network capacity needed to overcome congestion and generate productivity gains; and we will remain agile balancing and adjusting resources depending upon demand to drive improved cost performance.
Ultimately running a safe reliable and efficient railroad creates value for our customers and increased returns for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks and good morning.
Let's start with a recap of first-quarter results.
Operating revenue was flat with last year at just over $5.6 billion.
Strong core pricing was offset by declines in fuel surcharge revenue and total volumes.
Operating expenses totaled just over $3.6 billion decreasing 4% when compared to last year.
The net result was operating income growing 7% to about $2 billion.
Below the line other income totaled $26 million down from $38 million in 2014.
Interest expense of $148 million was up 11% compared to the previous year driven by increased debt issuance during 2014 and at the beginning of 2015.
Income tax expense increased to $704 million driven primarily by higher pre-tax earnings.
Net income grew 6% versus last year while the outstanding share balance declined 3% as a result of our continued share repurchase activity.
These results combined to produce quarterly earnings of $1.30 per share up 9% versus last year.
Now turning to our top line freight revenue of about $5.3 billion was down 1% versus last year.
In addition to a 2% volume decline fuel surcharge revenue was down about $200 million when compared to 2014.
The decline in fuel price was partially offset by the positive lag in the fuel surcharge programs.
All in we estimate the net impact of reduced fuel prices added about $0.08 to earnings in the first quarter versus last year.
This includes both the fuel surcharge lag and lower diesel costs.
In the second quarter we expect the net earnings impact of reduced fuel prices to be closer to neutral.
Business mix was slightly positive for the quarter driven by a decline in lower average revenue per car international intermodal shipments.
Looking ahead given the volume shifts between our commodity groups business mix is likely to have a negative impact on freight revenue's beginning in the second quarter.
Slide 23 provides more detail on our core pricing trends.
First quarter core pricing came in at 4% reflecting a more favorable pricing environment in 2015.
This represents a full point to sequential improvement from the fourth quarter of last year.
Of this about 0.5% reflects the benefit of legacy business that we renewed earlier this year.
This includes both the 2015 and 2016 legacy contract renewals.
Moving on to the expense side Slide 24 provides a summary of our compensation and benefits expense which increased 9% versus 2014.
Lower volumes were more than offset by labor inflation increased training expense and lower productivity.
Looking at our total work force levels our employee count was up 6% when compared to 2014.
About a quarter of this increase was in our capital-related work force.
As Cam just discussed we're adjusting our total hiring downward to better balance our resources.
The largest hiring area will continue to be in the TE&amp;Y ranks.
In total when you factor in attrition training furloughs and volume levels we expect our net overall work force levels to be around 48 000 by year end about flat with year-end 2014.
Labor inflation was about 6% for the first quarter driven primarily by agreement wage inflation and will likely continue to be in the 6% range for the second quarter as well.
Keep in mind that the first and second quarters include the 3% agreement wage increase effective the first of this year on top of 3.5% wage increase from last July.
For the full year we still expect labor inflation to be about 5% including pension.
Turning to the next slide fuel expense totaled $564 million down 39% when compared to 2014.
Lower diesel fuel prices along with a 1% decline in gross ton miles drove the decrease in fuel expense for the quarter.
Compared to the first quarter of last year our fuel consumption rate improved 1% while our average fuel price declined 38% to $1.95 per gallon.
Moving on to our other expense categories purchased services and materials expense increased 6% to $643 million.
Increased locomotive and freight car material costs were the primary drivers.
Depreciation expense was $490 million up 6% compared to 2014.
We expect depreciation expense to increase about 6% for the full year.
Slide 27 summarizes the remaining two expense categories.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $311 million which is flat when compared to 2014.
Other expenses came in at $259 million up $33 million versus last year.
Higher state and local taxes and casualty costs contributed to the year-over-year increase.
For 2015 we still expect the other expense line to increase between 5% and 10% on a full-year basis excluding any unusual items.
Turning to our operating ratio performance we achieved a quarterly operating ratio of 64.8% improving 2.3 points when compared to 2014.
Our operating ratio benefited about three points from lower fuel prices including the fuel surcharge lag.
Keep in mind however we also lost the revenue benefit from our energy-related volumes as energy prices declined.
Turning now to our cash flow in the first quarter cash from operations increased to just under $2.1 billion.
This is up 17% compared to 2014 primarily driven by higher earnings and the timing of cash tax payments.
We also invested about $1.1 billion this quarter in cash capital investments.
As Cameron just noted we now intend to spend about $4.2 billion in capital for the full year down about $100 million from our previous estimate.
Given the sharp decline in fuel surcharge revenue capital spending well likely be greater than the 17% of revenue this year.
Longer term however we still expect capital spending to be about 16% to 17% of revenue assuming of course that fuel returns to somewhat higher levels.
One housekeeping item to note on the cash flow statement.
As you know in the first quarter we changed the timing of our quarterly dividend payments so that the cash outlay occurs in the quarter for which the dividend is declared.
As a result we had two dividend payments during the quarter -- one for the fourth quarter of 2014 and one for the first quarter of this year.
This is the only time we will see this this year.
Together these payments totaled about $922 million.
We also increased our first-quarter dividend by 10%.
This is in line with our commitment to grow the dividend payout target to 35%.
Taking a look at the balance sheet our adjusted debt balance grew to $15.6 billion at quarter end up from $14.9 billion at year end.
This takes our adjusted debt-to-capital ratio to 42.6% up from 41.3% at year-end 2014.
We remain committed to an adjusted debt-to-cap ratio in the low to mid- 40% range and an adjusted debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 1.5 plus.
We feel our current cash outlook positions us well to execute on our cash allocation strategy.
Our profitability and strong cash generation enable us to continue to fund our strong capital program and to grow shareholder returns.
In the first quarter we bought back about 6.9 million shares totaling $807 million.
Between the first-quarter dividend and our share repurchases we returned about $1.3 billion to our shareholders in the quarter.
This represents roughly a 23% increase over 2014 demonstrating our commitment to increasing shareholder value.
That's a recap of the first-quarter results.
As we look towards the second quarter and the remainder of the year there are a number of factors that we'll be watching very closely.
On the revenue side we expect a favorable pricing environment to continue supported by improving service and our strong value proposition.
We remain committed to solid core pricing above inflation.
As for volume the outlook is a little more uncertain.
The recent challenges that we've seen in coal and in the shale-related markets are likely to continue.
At this point we think coal volumes in the second quarter could be down in the mid-single-digit range versus 2014 with ongoing softness throughout most of the year as Eric discussed earlier.
For the year strength in other areas could offset these headwinds depending on what happens to the drivers ranging from consumer spending to the size of the 2015 grain harvest.
Of course as I previously noted the volume mix shifts could also have a negative revenue impact.
We will just have to see how it all plays out this year.
From the cost perspective the second quarter will likely still reflect some impacts of operating inefficiencies although as Cameron noted we will see gradual improvement in productivity over time.
As I mentioned earlier if fuel prices stay close to where they are today the net impact on earnings should be neutral for the remaining quarters of the year.
Taken together we have our work cut out for us again in 2015 but we will continue our unrelenting focus on safety service and shareholder returns.
With that I'll turn it back over to Lance.
Thanks Rob.
As you've heard from the team we've had some challenges to start off the year; but we're taking the steps needed to work through those challenges and realize the opportunities we see ahead.
As Eric mentioned weakness in our coal and shale-related markets could persist for some time; but we continue to see gradual improvement in the underlying economy which should be a positive for other parts of our business.
When you consider other wild cards from the next grain harvest to the strength of the U.S.
dollar it all adds up to a dynamic environment.
That's the nature of our business.
Our goal is to provide our customers with excellent service wherever the need arises.
We expect to see solid improvement in network performance and cost efficiency over the coming months.
As we leverage the strengths of our diverse franchise we continue to be intently focused on safety service and shareholder returns.
Now let's open up the line for your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question is coming from the line of Tom Wadewitz with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
First I wanted to ask you on coal it seems like the macro backdrop's pretty challenging.
You acknowledge that -- particularly low natural gas prices.
But I'm wondering your mid-single-digit decline seems somewhat optimistic versus the trend we have seen recently.
There's been more like I don't know down 10% 15%.
What is it that leads you to say mid-single-digit instead of worse and how much visibility do you have to that? Eric do you want to take care of that? Yes.
As you know Tom a lot of factors go into play as there was a relatively mild winter a narrow serving territory of our utilities.
The heating days were down 5% to 10% versus last year.
We're assuming more normal weather patterns for the balance of the year.
That clearly is a factor.
The other factor as you know is this is typically the shelf months.
We see this every year where you don't really have heating or cooling during the spring.
Again we're assuming we're going to get back to normal seasonal weather patterns.
As we mentioned natural gas prices -- what happens with that will have an impact.
A lot of factors but that's our best assessment at this time.
The second or the follow-up question on the resource levels you indicated a number of times that inefficiency or let's say a time lag in resource production versus volume.
How do we think about how that will play through in second quarter? Do you catch up pretty quickly and see reduction in resources? Do you expect train speed to improve? How do you think that plays out in terms of the margin performance? Does that really kick in and support margin improvement or is that something where the revenue head wind is more the dominant factor in terms of again looking how that affects the OR or the margin performance? Sure Tom.
Thinking about the time lag.
We talked to you all last year about trying to catch up with the volume.
Then in the fourth quarter we indicated we had finally caught up and were fully resourced.
Then coming into the first quarter of this year volume shifted what I would consider fairly dramatically to be negative ending up 2% down.
It's really all about being caught in a rip tide being behind the curve in terms of getting our resources right-sized.
When we look forward into the second quarter we have indicated that we're anticipating better service and better efficiency.
We haven't put a stake in the ground and said exactly how that happens but we anticipate -- and I see it happening right now on the network -- we anticipate continuous improvement as Cameron and his team get the business right-sized.
Rob or Cam any additional comments? I would add to that list them.
We're always focused on improving the margins.
As Lance pointed out we're focused on continually spruce bit on the cause the balancing the network.
We will have challenges as I pointed out of the mix yet we anticipate taking hold in second quarter and beyond.
Even with all of that activity we're always going to be focused on improving are margins of where we're today.
Next question comes from David Vernon with Bernstein Research.
Please proceed with your question.
First question on the top-line.
If you think about the range of potential downside on the frac business have you guys try to look into that at all as far as how much demand maybe down as we get into second quarter? Yes so a lot of things can change that or drive that as you know particularly coal prices.
We look at the outlook right now.
We see a mid- teens kind of a range.
We see our business to look more like '13 volumes than '14 volumes.
Okay and then maybe a quick follow-up the core pricing gains of 4% I think Rob call you mentioned inflation is going to be on the labor side unusually high this year because of the new labor agreement.
How do we think about that in terms of your expectation about pricing above inflation? Are you expecting more productivity for back half of this year? How do we think about the pricing inflation relationship? Or do we think that pricing that he gets better in the 2nd and 3rd quarter as reported? David just to [indiscernible] question we have been consistent and clear that when we're pricing in the marketplace we're pricing for our value proposition.
Whatever either Eric or Rob want to comment on it's in that context our pricing in the marketplace is our volume.
I want to say David long-term view is pricing above in place in.
Not necessarily core pricing [indiscernible] to inflation and we expect higher labor inflation.
Overall for the year expect overall company inflation to be in the 3% 4% range.
That gives you a guiding light in spite of the challenges we know we're going to face on the labor line.
Overall companywide we think about 3% copper% rate for the year.
The 4% includes the legacy reprice right? To make the first quarter does include legacy for pricing yes.
Our next question is coming from the line of Rob Salmon with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
As a clarification to David's last question in you're prepared remarks Rob.
You had indicated that the core pricing accelerated to 4% in the first quarter.
I think you had mentioned that roughly half of that was attributable to legacy.
Was that half of the step up from three to four or just half of the four in aggregate? Let me clarify that.
Of the 4% core pricing reported in first quarter one-half of a point of that.
3.5% to 4%.
.5% was attributable to the legacy renewals.
I appreciate the clarification.
Kind of taking a step back to going back to investor day toward the end of 2014 you had indicated that your longer-term full-year volume outlook is positive.
I guess given the drop-off that we have seen in terms of shale-related business and coal challenges you indicated as well as uncertainty in terms of [indiscernible] you still have confidence that the volume growth in aggregate will be positive or do you see that a little bit more challenging as we look out from here? I will let Rob answer that in a little more in detail but the thing that we think about is the beauty of our franchise the strength of our franchise and all of the opportunity that it represents.
We've have got a diverse book of business and over time we have seen that there are always areas where we can develop more business and grow.
And so we feel still quite bullish about in the long term being able to grow based on this great franchise.
Lance I would add your comment caught we know we have some challenges right now but if you look at the UP franchise it's a fabulous franchise that has great optimism long-term.
.
inventories are high right now gas prices are low energy prices are low which is impacting our frac business.
All of those are going to balance out over the long-term.
You add-on top of that what's happening in the chemical franchise the opportunities still in front of us longer-term with the investments being laid in the Gulf.
You look at Mexico franchise and we're the only rebel that interchanges at the six border crossing and look at all of the opportunities taking place there.
You look at our strong auto franchise.
You add it all up.
The diversity of our business mix and strength of our franchise caught long-term supervised a stronger optimism which is why we make think longer-term expectation still is volume will be on positive side of the ledger.
Our next question is from the line of Bill Greene with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Rob can I ask you to put maybe if you can little bit finer point on some of the challenges on the cost side in the first quarter? I think last year the sort of estimated we had about a $35 million headwind from the weather.
Can you estimate what the headwind is from some of the inefficiencies that occurred in the network this quarter? Bill you are right.
Last year we pulled in about $35 million of a deficiency tied too significant weather events primarily in Chicago area.
This year clearly our cost performance in the first quarter is not we would like it to be.
If you take fuel off of the table our costs were about to enter billion dollars up year-over-year.
It's a combination of things that we all had talked about this morning.
We had some timing issues.
We've resourced for unexpected coming into the quarter higher level of volume.
We had some mechanical activities that we took on that I would categorize as timing.
And then as we pointed out with had inefficiencies in the network.
Without putting a splitting hairs in terms of where those dollars are we think they are all there for us to right-size the network.
If you look at what you would have expected if you are running optimally and had you had things timed up a little bit better you probably had a negative in the quarter of about 122-point in operating ratio.
That's how I would look at it.
Okay and then your point about second quarter is it will still take some time for the network to get to the operating efficiencies that you want.
Maybe it will be less than the first quarter impact but still meaningful.
Is that what you were trying to communicate? Yes and Cameron why don't you walk us through a little bit about the activities that are underway to get these things right-size and get your-- We still have work to do that we think we can eventually right-size the network in the second quarter.
As Rob mentioned we do think there was some inefficiencies throughout the quarter but the rightsizing of our locomotive fleet weekly we review opportunities to store additional locomotives and several times a month we're also rightsizing our hiring plans as we look out for the remainder of the year.
Okay.
Rob let me ask you one last wish into that here.
Just on share buybacks how opportunistic can you be or is the first quarter run rate kind of what we should expect? I mean if the shares are down a fair amount can you wrap this up? Do you feel you would rather have a BA consistent buyback each quarter? As you know our approach has always then and we'll continue to be opportunistic in the marketplace.
We don't have a set number of dollars or shares we will buyback inning in any quarter but I will assure you will continue to be opportunistic as we move forward.
The current price is frankly an opportunity for us.
Our next questions is coming from the line of Brandon Oglenski with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Lance in context your 1st quarter wasn't that bad.
Earnings were up 9% even with all of the challenges you had and yet it sounded like the tone from everyone on the call here is that we're not too happy with that.
Obviously we could have done better.
It did miss Wall Street expectations here and I think over the long run you guys have them better at staying at expectations relative to some of the other stocks in the space.
I think investors have reported your company for that.
As I hear it from some of the questions and the answers here it sounds like we still have crossed challenges.
We're catching up for new volume reality.
We don't know energy and coal markets are going to shake out.
As your content more difficult on earnings growth this year consistent reps a plop in 2015.
Is a getting more challenging to see double-digit growth this year? I know you don't want to explicitly guy but can you help folks on this call understand where these year could shakeout? Sure Brandon and you're exactly right.
We're not going to speak specifically about what to expect from the year from percentage perspective.
I think you've got the tone pretty well right.
When I look at the first quarter I am proud of the hard work that the team did in terms of trying to get the cost suggested to the volume reality.
I'm disappointed that we couldn't have done better because we here at the table see the opportunity of what the franchise really has the ability to deliver.
Having said that I am confident as I look forward that are operating team and all of the teams are focused on doing the right thing.
As we look forward we're adjusting to current volumes at the same time as we're trying to determine what this peak season and looked like and what the growth rate look like from here.
I will tell you there is no change in my confidence both this year and over the long run of being able to generate out of this wonderful business this beautiful franchise the kind of financial performance and return generation that you have seen historically.
As we have said before it gets more difficult from 65% or 64% 63% operating ratio but we remain absolutely confident it's there we will realize it and continue to realize it.
Could you maybe talk a little bit more explicitly about some of the drivers of margin improvement this year outside of the benefit from the fuel surcharge? It seems like you do have a bit of compensation benefit headwind given the wage increases.
Obviously if volume could come in flat or maybe even negative for the year given some of the uncertainty what's the ability to drive leverage in the business then? So Brandon I think Rob and the team have outlined a core portion of that this morning which is as we look forward as Eric said we're in an environment where pricing core pricing gains looks good.
Cameron and team are working on rightsizing the business and generating efficiencies through the UP way and taking variable out of the network and looking for all other opportunities to generate margin improvement.
Rob anything else you want too at? I would just remind you that it's the same levers that have got us from where we were many years ago to where we're today.
While volume is our friend how we don't use it as an excuse.
You saw us perform well in years when volume did not play to our benefit.
We know we have some challenges here with volumes.
We've got challenges with mix as I called out but we're going to continue to be relentlessly focused on cost control and cost management as Lance and Cameron have outlined.
As Eric talked about pricing's note key driver.
We improved by the proposition and marketplace and pricing will continue to be a strong driver of that.
To get to are longer-term widens of a 60 plus or minus operating ratio by full-year 2019 it's going to take those same efforts and same focus from the organization that we're going to continue to focus on.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Wetherbee with Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
I just want to try to understand a little bit better about sort of what the outlook was internally as you guys thought about 2015 and in particular the volume opportunity.
I know you were looking for any positive volumes for the full-year and that was rolled in question we have had tough comps sort of understood coming up in that next quarters.
As you're trying to adjust to volume environment I'm trying to understand where your heads were at coming into this year versus where we're now.
It seems maybe a little bit bigger of a change than anticipated.
And what to make sure I understand that.
Chris we don't specifically address what our budgets are forecast coming into the year.
What I will say is the big change is actual growth and then actual decline.
The biggest change there was coal which was somewhat surprising in terms of how weak it turned out quickly.
Of course we had difficulty with the West coast ports and labor dispute.
We have pretty good visibility to that.
Looking forward Eric why don't you talk to us about what your markets look like as you look into the future.
Yes I think what Lance said is accurate.
The big swing especially first quarter we talked about the international intermodal West coast port labor dispute and we think will kind of normalized throughout the year but the big swing factor is coal.
As you know Chris as you go back really probably four months oil price outlook for the year was still up in the 90s and is now in the 50s.
Of course that had a swing factor that is impacting broad swaps of the market also.
I guess that certainly makes sense.
Maybe sticking on that coal question and maybe one for you Eric in terms of mid- single digit outlook in the second quarter that you are thinking about Colorado Utah underperformed pretty meaningfully relative to PRB in the first quarter.
Is that inherit in the second quarter outlook would you expect PRB to soften a bit on comps and then you still have weakness in Colorado Utah? I'm just trying to get a rough sense of how you think about coal? The mid- single-digit assumes a continued profile with Colorado Utah Copper to get her to come because we're not expecting export markets to pick up significantly this year.
So will be roughly more performance we have seen? Thereabouts caught driven again by weather and natural gas prices.
The next question is coming from the line of Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Rob I wanted to ask you about some of the yield drivers in terms of how much of a negative to you think makes could be in the second quarter? And then on the pricing the 50 basis points from the legacy pricing maybe is a little lower than would have expected.
Wondering if that's a timing issue and that Rams or is this the volumes are down which limits the impact of the legacy repricing and it's going to stay about 50 basis points the rest of the year? Yes let me address the mix comment.
As you know we don't give specific guidance around mix because there's come again beauty of our franchise is we have a lot of diverse business opportunities.
As a result not common to have a fair amount of mix.
We're highlighting that given the change anticipated in both the coal and fracking environment.
And continued strength in our intermodal that's likely versus the first quarter likely to be a bit of a mix headwind as the rest of the year plays out.
How precise that will be we will have to see.
I'm not going to give precise guidance around that.
In terms of your pricing question on the legacy contributor as I have always said you can't straight-line.
Don't take what we repriced in past years on legacy and assume that each contract is the same.
They are all different.
That was what those contracts on a GAAP to market and that's what we took them up too.
To your point broadly not just on legacy but I would say broadly the way we look conservative Lee at calculating our prices you know the fact that volume was down in some key markets did have a negative impact on the way we continued brute price.
I view that as positive as volumes recover we expect to enjoy the improved returns on those business volumes we have been able to reprice.
Okay and the contract you repriced 416 is that showed up in this number already? Were they just right at the actual impact does not show up until mixture? It's also in that number.
Okay.
And last thing just to go back to the question about the buybacks.
Was your point about the extra dividend payment in the quarter in your mind does that have an impact on how much you bought back the first quarter? And as you go to a more normalized dividend just once a quarter there's more or less for the buyback or they are independent? They are independent.
I was just calling out folks understood there were two differ payments in the quarter.
I would not make any correlation to that on my share buyback pace.
The next question is coming from the line of Ken Hoexter with Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Just kind of a follow up on some of the volume commentary.
Maybe Eric just talk a little bit a little bit on chemicals given that usually a precursor for a comedy and we see trend week lately.
Longer-term your looking at plant opening up a Gulf region but more in near-term this year is that a precursor for industrial side of the comment? Given set their.
As you know chemicals business improved by rail was actually pretty good on the first quarter.
We were up one percentage two percentage points in the first quarter net accrued by rail.
We think that is a precursor to the economy.
Plastics business really ties pretty closely to construction and automotive and all of those and even on consumer side and retail side of house call plastics business was up in first quarter as we mentioned.
We think that all of those trends indicate the strengthening North American economy.
As Rob said earlier we had some headwinds and coal some headwinds we shale stuff that if you net that out we feel pretty good about some of the underlying strength of the economy.
Just a follow-up Lance maybe there is a lot of discussion at out east and in Canada about industry consolidation.
Can you address union does we did this a couple of quarters ago but perhaps revisit your thoughts on how the market has changed over time and your thoughts given some of the activities or discussion on the eastern and Canadian half of the country? Current discussions have not changed our position on industry consolidation.
We're not in favor of it.
We don't think it is the right thing to do at this time.
Our next question is from John Larkin with Stifel.
Please proceed with your question.
You had mentioned that grain exports in some cases were still pretty strong but export haul was getting it.
That was due to be very strong dollar.
At you give us more complete picture of the impact of the strong dollar on the exports across more than just grain and coal? The grain exports really were driven by milo and soybeans.
We had a great soybean crop in and China is really pulling those into China and spreads between Gulf Coast West Coast have narrowed in terms of ship spread.
That really is driving milo and beans from central part of U.S.
into China which was a positive for us.
We're still seeing headwinds from the strong dollar in exports across probably a pretty good chunk of the economy.
When you think about steel steals being impacted both with imports come particularly from Asia coming into the country and domestic steel producers are struggling is also being impacted in terms of machinery exports construction and farm machinery exports headwinds because of strong dollar.
On the weak side we're seeing some difficulty in the U.S.
wheat crop competing in export markets partially being to the strong dollar.
The strong dollar is as you would expect impact the exports are pretty wide swath of the economy beyond just coal and it is helping imports.
You should see our intermodal import business and other import business strengthen as you go throughout the year but the strong dollar is having an impact.
And maybe a question on the ever-changing energy markets.
Do you have a sense for where oil prices would have to go in order to recharge the activity levels in the shales and then related to that how high would natural gas prices have to go in order for the utilities to switch from natural gas back to coal? If I could predict energy markets I would probably be sitting in a different spot than today.
There is a lot of conventional wisdom out there and I think the conventional wisdom was that you needed to be in the 70s for the U.S.
shale markets to be strong.
I think even if you look today with oil in the 50s there is some shale but it's still going pretty strong.
Permian shale is still doing relatively well.
The Eagle Ford shale is not.
I think there is a spread there again conventional wisdom on natural gas is somewhere in the three 3.5 350 is probably in the crossover range but again depends on a pot of different things like utility by region of the country.
John just a little more detail.
Clearly we like to see oil prices back in the 75 cross-trained.
Clearly that would be better for us.
But all of the guidance has been wrapped around no change and energy prices going for 2015 is that a fair assessment? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Allison Landry with Credit Suisse Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Following up on your earlier comments on the underlying strength in base chemicals and prospects can you remind us how much for business is tied to the housing and residential construction markets? Yesterday we saw existing home sales numbers that surprised to the upside and new forms Tom starts are expected to be pretty solid for the year.
I wanted to get a view of sort of an all-inclusive perspective of the commodities that you move that are tied to these markets and what that represents as a percentage of volume or revenues.
I think historically we have set between 5% and 2%.
We still think that's a good estimate.
Housing starts were down in February and March.
I think the housing start number comes out today or tomorrow.
I think there is some expectation that weather has impacted the number being down the last couple of months and the existing home sales number was very strong as you say.
Again we tend to factor that into our optimism about the underlying strength of the economy.
As a follow-up question given that your main competitor has seen modest improvement in velocity albeit some easy comp's do you think that the risk of losing some of the traffic that you gained last year as a result of their issues is now somewhat heighted? It seems like there's plenty of traffic as you go around at the West Coast ports but BNSF yesterday actually made comments it has regained some lost Ag business.
So I just wanted to get your perspective there.
The BNSF stuff has been showing improvement in their service product.
We would anticipate that would happen.
They are very good vibrant competitor.
Eric had said historically some of the business we had shipped last year certainly in Ag maybe to a lesser extent some other commodities was naturally a better fit for their franchise there network and would likely go back.
I think you see that in the Ag line in terms of reported volumes.
Eric do you want to add anything to that? No.
Our next question is coming from the line of Tom Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
I have a couple of questions.
First on intermodal.
Can you give us a sense how much your intermodal volumes might have been impacted by the west coast port congestion and how you think it will take that congestion to unwind to sort of filter into this Q2 numbers? So international intermodal volume was down to the low teens in the first quarter.
Again we expect that as you catch-up throughout the year that that will normalize and most of that will catch-up.
We do not expect to see any permanent deterioration of our West Coast international intermodal business.
Okay.
Would it be possible to give us a sense of how much your filter fuel surcharge might have impacted ARPUs for that commodity group? Rob you had mentioned that impacted in the first quarter little bit more than the rest of the book of business.
We don't break out by commodity in specific surcharge contributed to each individual commodity but there are timing differences by different contracts and we have some 60 plus different mechanisms.
There can be and there are timing differences on the intermodal line versus some of the other lines.
Okay.
And then just with one Rob as a follow-up you had commented that you anticipate some potential makeshifts ahead which could impact your revenues.
Can you talk about how the mix shift is going to affect your RTMs versus carloads? Because I noticed that your RTMs were down about 4% in the first quarter and carloads were down about 2%.
I would think this going to impact your real productivity unit cost and ultimately margins.
So I'm just wondering if you could help us frame how we should think about the impact of efficiencies that might be affected by RTMs potentially being weaker than carloads? I'm not going to break it out at this point as you are asking Tom but I would say mix is something we deal with.
From a cost standpoint that just presents challenges and opportunities depending what the volume actually is for the operating team and Cameron's all over it improving the cost structure.
In terms of the top-line the pricing line or the impact on revenue again it will depend out which markets are stronger than others.
We do anticipate as I called out there will be a headwind for the balance of the year.
A simple explanation for why there is ahead hit headwind of it in our revenue line is we think there will be stronger growth and a lot of his recovery with intermodal we just talked about and soft as a goal and frac markets those are the negative drivers on that if you will cap next headwind we anticipate.
We're calling that out directionally as a challenge but we're not using that as an excuse not to continue to run as efficient operational the cost side as we possibly can.
Our next question is from the line of Jason Seidl with Cowen and Company.
Please go ahead with your question.
When you look at your core pricing of 3.50% kind of in line with what I expected but is it occurring in certain areas in terms of are you getting more pricing now out of that truck competitive business then you were 1 year ago? Is that what is driving the improvement? Eric? We're getting a good market waste pricing across our business.
As we said before a certain percentage of our business has been fixed on multi-year longer-term contracts and you can't touch them.
We talked about that before but for the things that we're able to reprice the demand is strong.
The impacts in terms of the challenges of the trucking industry is having are in our favor and we see strong opportunities to price out value across our book of business.
Doesn't it get any easier to price intermodal products once the port clears up or did that not really have much of an impact on your pricing? Pricing is always difficult no matter when you do it.
I would guess most of the international intermodal business would not be in spot pricing type of agreements.
Okay.
And to piggy back on Allison's question as a follow-up you obviously benefited from BN last year in several different categories and you locked up some of that business in some longer-term contracts.
One of those does when you those contracts start expiring? We don't talk about individual contracts.
I don't think we mentioned that last year.
We don't talk about individual contracts.
Our next question is from the line of Ben Hartford with Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed with your question.
Eric I did wanted to follow up on domestic intermodal pricing in particular given the decline in crude I know there are certain lanes now where you can find intermodal pricing all-in that is competitive to trucks you guys are more insulated to that with the longer length of haul.
Let's assume that crude does stabilize here around $50 $55 a barrel.
As you look into '16 do you see a situation where intermodal rate growth does have to lag truckload rate growth going forward at current levels of crude because of the lower energy price? And some of that disparity historical disparity between truck and intermodal might have narrowed over the past several years? Can you provide some perspective there? Yes I guess I'm not white understanding the foundation of your question.
I think actually truck pricing is increasing.
If you look at most of the truck pricing indexes because of the challenges that the truck industry is having they are getting high single-digit type price increases.
So I think would suggest instead of the gap narrowing it might even be expanding rather than staying the same.
Yes got truck pricing has increased.
I was asking as we go into '16 should we expect domestic intermodal pricing growth to mimic truck load or does it need to lag what the truck load rate growth is to make sure there is enough of an all-in price delta between truck and intermodal? We have a value proposition and we're going to continue to price tag as strongly.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
Please proceed with your question.
I want to go a different direction.
We're hearing a lot about the drought in California the lower water tables the reduction water use and also during the quarter we heard those I think we focused with port issues on inbound movement of products.
We also heard there was a fair amount of Ag and produce related products that could not get off the West Coast.
Could you discuss how that affected you in the quarter and how you're thinking about this drought in California in terms of the growth of your Western business? The drought in California as you know the authorities right now in California are trying to insulate the Ag industry and really are putting the onus for water conservation on residential customers.
Politically how long that can sustain with the Ag industry being insulated is anybody's guess.
I do think that if you look at the Ag industry in California you kind of profile who uses the most water to the least water I think our customer base will probably be in the using the least water category.
So we feel pretty good that the drought will not have near-term material impacts on our food and refrigerated business.
We feel pretty good about that.
Short of some Armageddon type of scenario.
In terms of the export question yes.
So Ag products particularly refrigerated products do go export off West Coast ports and they were similarly impacted just like the imports were impacted so just like things couldnt get on things couldn't get off and they similarly had impacts fourth quarter of last year and first quarter of this year.
As a follow-up thought last year we heard about truckers moving water into California on an as needed basis.
Maybe I'm going off the deep end here but is that a potential revenue source for you over the long run? I do not think that's material.
Our next question comes from Matt Troy with Nomura Asset Management.
Please proceed with your question.
I had a question as you talk to your utility customers you mention natural gas switching impacting some of the Colorado Utah basin business.
Just curious what the echoes of 2012 still lingering how should we think about the potential for additional or incremental vulnerability in your coal business.
What's your sense in speaking with coal customers that as natural gas approaches to 250 now and potentially lower how much has switched to how much remaining could switch? What is the vulnerability there? I think the things that can switch probably have switched.
As natural gas goes lower there might be some incremental impact you would expect there would be.
But I think we have seen mostly-- Comments on that Matt if you recall last time natural gas prices got to historically low levels.
We really in our territory didnt see materials switching until it got sub $2.
That doesn't necessarily predict the future but what we're seeing though and I think the bigger impact to date rather than our utility based switching from one source to another they are able to buy electricity off the grid that is being produced by somebody else perhaps from gas.
So were seeing that impact as opposed to a pure switch turning off the coal plant and turning on the gas plant in our territory.
And my follow-up would be you mentioned PTC I'm just curious there I think when it was initially enacted no one believed that it would be completed by 2015 in many of the various stakeholder groups but here we're knocking on the deadline.
Curious in terms of your conversation with Washington what it is it industry is proposing as the path forward in terms of either time frame or incremental expansion to the window? And coming off the wall question here what if Washington in all it's rational thought and reason decides to hold you to letter of law? What will be the implication if the industry does not make the deadline and they are not flexible? Thanks.
I will start with a path forward.
Cameron had mentioned we believe that virtually everyone involved understand there has to be an extension because the industry is not going to make the date.
That extension is going to have to come through Congress.
There are a number of different vehicles that could make that happen and we're monitoring all of those potentials.
And giving feedback and input into our thoughts to help navigate that process.
From the perspective of having an extension occur I remain confident that that will happen.
It just reflects the reality of the situation.
From the perspective of what if we don't get an extension? There are penalties outlined in the current regulation current law and we've been discussing what our actions would be should an extension not occur.
That would be a horrible outcome for the industry.
And I don't believe that's the way it's going to go but we will be prepared for that very very remote possibility as the year comes to a close.
Our next question comes from the line of John Barnes with RBC Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
First on the port situation can you talk a little bit about -- you have been through this a couple of times before.
Can you talk a little bit about your view of a return of market share to the western coast ports or do you think some of what's swung to the east coast and other ports is more permanent in nature? We've said for quite some time that there may be as a low single digit number of share transfer from West Coast to East Coast when the Panama Canal opens up.
The reality from our perspective is the most efficient vessels and the ones that are being commissioned as we speak A they won't go through modified Panama Canal and B there needs to be some significant work to occur on the East Coast ports in some circumstances to handle those.
Having said that there is also a natural cost/value proposition that makes those imports want to come into the West Coast.
Eric you want to add anything to that? No.
I think that about covers it.
So you still view it as a couple of percentage points in market share? Yes currently East Coast has about 31.
Historically weve said that could go to 33 with the Panama Canal opening but as Lance said the larger ships that are being built today really won't even be able to go through the expanded Panama Canal.
There is a value proposition for the West Coast.
If you look at ship spread in terms of the West Coast versus East Coast and if you look at the cost of over land bridge rail transportation there is a natural economic driver to the West Coast.
Okay.
My other one is I know you've got an uncertain volume environment right now at play.
I get where the pressure points are but if 2014 taught us anything is you can get caught on the other side in a more robust growth environment just as easily.
How do you go about balancing where to pull in right now? Where to pull the rings in especially given what you experienced in '14 where you really ran out of certain resources? Can you make sure you don't pull back so much trying to balance in this environment that should growth reaccelerate that you're not back in that same similar situation as you were in 14? In 2014 our locomotive surge fleet strategy served us very very well.
When business came on we are able to match that business.
So as we look into this year redeveloping that search fleet and being agile as we mentioned is a very critical asset and very critical initiative for us.
We take Eric's forecast and where he predicts business will be and then we make our moves appropriately.
Our next question is from the line of Cherilyn Radbourne with TD Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
With respect to West Coast ports I was just wondering if you could comment on the challenges associated with big ships and new shipping alliances which may remain once the backlog is cleared and what you are doing internally and with your supply chain partners to cope? You are right there is going to be a challenge and basically the challenges because the new alliances as they bring their business together they bring it all to one terminal and then overwhelms the capacity of that individual terminal on the port vis-a-vis being spread out between multiple terminals.
So that is a challenge.
The alliances are working through that the challenge of terminals are working through.
There was a challenge was starting to be seen before even the ports slow down.
We from outside are working with our customers developing planning practices and protocols in capacity management protocols that we're sharing with them to basically say here is the capacity within this window that we can do into the extent that there is a larger than that flood because of alliance activity through the terminal what do you need to do to correct that? So we did see it in the past.
We will see it in the future.
We're working with them to spread that out.
Are most important asset in LA basin to stay up against the intermodal businesses is locomotives.
And we have spent over the last year developing a model that stays up against Eric forecast of business week-to-week to week.
It has been very successful are originating on-time departures out of the LA basin are in the mid-90s and we feel very confident we can keep it there.
Are next question comes from the line of Cleo Zagrean with Macquarie.
Please proceed with your question.
My first question relates to the impact of mixed operating ratio.
Can you please clarify for us whether you expect mix to be a headwind or tailwind if a headwind is it mostly because of declines in coal and frac rather than international intermodal coming back? Thank you.
Cleo the headwind that we would anticipate from the mix going forward is a result of we expect strong intermodal and softer coal and fracking related activities as you are calling out.
But as always we're going to continue to focus on being as efficient as we can on the cost side.
And as Eric has been talking all morning we're going to continue to price to the value proposition.
So we're not throwing the towel in terms of the margins but we know were going to face the headwind of those mix changes.
And my second question relates to coal.
Can you please discuss to what extent share shifts may have affected your volumes in a flat Western coal market in the first quarter? And your outlook for Colorado Utah with any kind of detail you want to share on the market for that coal and whether your long-term export outlook has changed? Thank you.
Yes there were no material contractual share shifts that we saw.
And what about Colorado Utah Eric? There were no material shifts.
Okay because we have seen been up like mid high single digits and your volumes down.
So I was wondering whether those are related in any way it's just totally separate tracks so to speak? We can't speak to their business naturally.
We kind of describe the dynamics we saw in our business it would not surprise me if they had a much greater opportunity for inventory replenishment for their customers in the first quarter than we had simply because we had more deliveries last year.
Our next question is from the line of Brian Ossenbeck with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
I had one quick one on frac sand adjusting to the current outlook down mid-teens in the second quarter.
But as opposed to something like coal where you have natural gas and inventories as you mentioned a little bit of a leading indicator.
With sand it's a little tougher as the amount of sand per well continues to go up and different basins move ahead at different rate.
So do you have any sense of the visibility into the second half of the year either in what you're seeing in actual orders or talking to your customers directly what the programs might look like at this point? Thanks.
I'm not quite sure where does what you are asking but it would be basically be similar to what we kind of said before.
Brian were you asking for a crystal ball on frac sand in the second half of the year? Yes call please.
I was asking how you think about the second half of the year with frac sand? I think our frac sand volumes based on current activity will probably be more similar to 2013 volumes than 2014 volumes.
Our next comes from the line of Keith Schoonmaker with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Knowing the strength in autos in the period will you please comment on how your expectations for trades with Mexico compared with maybe somewhat tempered with overall growth rate? Let me jump in just on the very long-term and Rob mentioned this early on in a comment about our franchise because we do serve all six rail gateways to Mexico and because of Mexico's opening up of some of their core industries as well as the significant foreign direct investment from the very long-term perspective we feel very very good about our business and growth with Mexico.
I have nothing more to add with that.
Mexico continues to be an upside for us.
We have a great franchise and we're optimistic about the outlook.
Yes if Mexico does grow outsize compared to business in the U.S.
would this be accretive? Not necessarily.
With that question actually has been in fact what we have experienced with last decade our volumes in and out of Mexico have grown at a slightly faster pace than the overall enterprise volumes.
And I would not try to draw conclusion in terms of margin -- those moves.
Is it longer haul though? It can be again I would say overall scheme of things it's no different than are overall enterprise mix.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our Q&amp;A session for today.
I would now like to turn the call back to Lance Fritz for closing comments.
Thank you Rob.
So you heard us talk about today was our first quarter where we came into the year volumes changed on us dramatically and we've spent the quarter aggressively trying to write-size and just fell short of that mark.
As we look forward into the second quarter we're looking forward to continue that work and improve our service product and our efficiencies and were confident thats going to happen.
And we look forward to talking to you about it the next time we get together.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines and have a wonderful day.
Welcome to Union Pacific's Second Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Lance Fritz President and CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you Mr.
Fritz.
You may now begin.
Good morning everybody.
Welcome to Union Pacific's second quarter earnings conference call.
With me here today in Omaha are Eric Butler Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; Cameron Scott our Executive Vice President of Operations; and Rob Knight our Chief Financial Officer.
This morning Union Pacific is reporting net income of $1.2 billion or $1.38 per share for the second quarter of 2015.
This is a 3% decrease in earnings per share compared to the second quarter of 2014.
Solid core pricing gains were not enough to overcome a significant decrease in demand.
Total volumes in the second quarter were down 6% led by a sharp decline in coal.
Industrial products and agricultural products also posted significant volume decreases.
As you recall first quarter volumes were down 2% and we began realigning our resources early in the year storing locomotives and furloughing employees.
These efforts continued throughout the second quarter.
We've made meaningful progress right sizing our resources to current volumes and I'm encouraged to report that we've made these improvements while posting strong safety performance.
But our work is not finished.
We'll continue to become more agile with our network and our resources.
We remain focused on providing safe and efficient service for our customers and strong financial performance for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it over to Eric.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
In the second quarter our volume was down 6% with gains in automotive and intermodal more than offset by declines in coal industrial products and Ag products.
We generated solid core pricing gains of 4% but it was not enough to offset the drop in fuel surcharge and the mix headwinds as average revenue per car declined 5% in the quarter.
You'll see the impact of lower fuel surcharge revenue as we discuss each business group.
Overall the decline in volume and lower average revenue per car drove a 10% decrease in freight revenue.
Let's take a closer look at each of the six business groups.
Ag products revenue was down 7% on a 7% volume decrease in flat average revenue per car.
Grain volume was down 19% in the quarter.
Our domestic feed grain shipments declined 6% as we return to more normal seasonal shipping patterns compared to the strong demand last year.
Export feed grain was impacted by the strong US dollar and abundant global grain supply driving our export shipments down 36%.
In wheat our export shipments also declined but were partially offset by moderately better domestic shipments.
Grain products volume was down 3% for the quarter.
Ethanol volume declined 6% driven by extended plant maintenance downtime following a record year of production.
Partially offsetting the ethanol decline was increased demand for soy bean meal exports to China and an increase in bio-diesel shipments.
Food and refrigerator shipments were down 2% driven primarily by fewer potato shipments and also due to lower frozen meat exports.
Automotive revenue was up 3% in the second quarter on a 7% increase in volume partially offset by a 3% reduction in average revenue per car.
Finished vehicle shipments were up 8% this quarter driven by continued strength in consumer demand.
The seasonally adjusted annual rate for North American automotive sales was 17.1 million vehicles in the second quarter up 3.6% from the same quarter in 2014.
This is the first quarter with the SAAR rate above 17 million vehicles since the third quarter of 2005.
In auto parts volume grew 5% this quarter driven primarily by increased vehicle production.
Chemicals revenue was down 1% for the quarter on a 1% reduction in average revenue per car and flat volume.
Plastics shipments were up 11% in the second quarter.
Stable resin pricing led to strong buyer confidence in the market and we also saw a strength in export volume.
Petroleum and liquid petroleum gas volume was up 10% in the second quarter driven primarily by strength in several LPG markets.
Our volume gains were offset by a 29% decline in crude oil shipments which continued to be impacted by lower crude oil prices and unfavorable price spreads.
Coal revenue declined 31% in the second quarter on a 26% reduction in volume and 7% decrease in average revenue per car.
Southern Powder River Basin tonnage was down 28% for the quarter as demand for coal continued to be impacted by mild weather and lower natural gas prices.
In addition to soft demand volumes were also impacted by heavy rains in June that flooded coal mines in the Powder River Basin and damaged our main line.
Colorado Utah tonnage was down 31% for the quarter driven by both the soft domestic demand and reduced export shipments.
I'll talk more about our outlook for coal in just a minute.
Industrial products revenue was down 14% on a 13% decline in value and 1% decrease in average revenue per car.
Construction products revenue was down 5% for the quarter.
We experienced higher than normal rainfall in the southern part of our franchise during the quarter which led to construction delays that impacted both cement and rock volume.
We still think the construction market is fundamentally strong particularly in Texas and that our construction products business will rebound.
Minerals volume was down 24% in the second quarter.
The reduction in drilling activity led to a 28% decline in shipments of Frac sand.
Finally metals volume was down 27% as lower crude oil prices reduced drilling related shipments by nearly 50%.
Also the strong US dollar continued to drive increased imports which reduces demand from domestic steel producers.
Intermodal revenue was down 5% as a 2% volume increase was more than offset by a 7% decrease in average revenue per unit.
Domestic shipments grew 3% in the second quarter as we continued to see strong demand from highway conversions and for premium services.
International intermodal was up 1% as our recovery from the west coast port labor dispute was muted by the strong comparisons from 2014.
You'll recall that the second quarter 2014 results included free shipments ahead of the west coast port labor contract expiration.
Additionally we experienced a slowdown later in the quarter due to relatively high retail inventory levels and softer than expected retail sales.
I'll update you on our expectations for peak season in just a minute.
To wrap up let's take a look at our outlook for the rest of the year.
In Ag products overall crop conditions in our territory appear favorable at the moment.
However low commodity prices and abundant global supply creates uncertainty in our volume outlook for grain.
In grain products we expect demand for soybean meal to remain strong in the near term and ethanol production should return to seasonally normal levels.
Automotive should continue to benefit from strength in sales and we expect growth in finished vehicles and auto parts shipments.
In coal while the weather has been closer to seasonally normal temperatures recently we expect lower natural gas prices higher inventories and low export demand to continue to be head winds in the second half of the year.
Although we anticipate continued year-over-year declines in the back half of the year we expect that volumes will sequentially improve from second quarter levels.
Most chemical markets remain solid for the remainder of the year with strength expected in LPG and plastics.
We continue to expect crude oil prices and unfavorable spreads will remain a significant headwind for crude-by-rail shipments for the rest of the year.
Lower crude oil prices will also continue to impact some of our industrial products markets.
Rig counts are down roughly 50% from their peak in 2014 but seem to have stabilized in recent weeks.
We expect our Frac sand shipments to level off as well though they will be significantly lower year-over-year given the strong comps.
The reduction in new drilling activity along with the strong dollar will continue to be head winds for our metals business.
The housing market continues to strengthen year-over-year and we believe our lumber franchise is well positioned to grow with demand.
In construction products we anticipate to return to growth as weather conditions normalize.
Finally in intermodal the relatively high current retail inventory levels could moderate our growth in the second half of the year in both domestic and international.
However many of the consumer confidence and spending indicators are still positive so we're preparing for a normal peak shipping season though it could be muted.
As always highway conversions will continue to present growth opportunities in domestic intermodal.
Overall while there is uncertainty in some of our markets we continue to see opportunity in several others.
We will continue our focus on solid core pricing gains and business development across our diverse franchise.
With that I'll turn it over to Cameron.
Thanks Eric and good morning.
Starting with our safety performance.
Our first half reportable injury rate improved 23% versus 2014 to a record low 0.82.
Successfully finding and addressing risk in the work place is clearly having a positive impact as we improve towards our goal of zero incidents.
In rail equipment incidents or derailments our reportable rate increased 17% to 3.46 driven by an increase in yard and industry reportable.
To make improvement going forward we will continue to focus on enhanced training to eliminate human factor incidents.
We will also continue making investments that harden our infrastructure to reduce incidents.
In public safety our grade crossing incident rate improved 11% versus 2014 to 1.97.
We continue to drive improvement by reinforcing public awareness through channels including public safety campaigns and community partnerships.
Moving to network performance we continue to face a very dynamic environment.
Significant volume swings and business mix shifts have led us to more frequently adjust our transportation plans.
Add to it the numerous flooding related outages we faced during the quarter and it was a challenging operating environment.
During the quarter we experienced 64 weather interruption days caused by more than 100 weather-related track outages including a significant interruption in the Powder River basin during early June.
We define interruption days as more than 50 hours of train delay associated with weather or incident events.
The strength of our franchise and investments we have made in resources and infrastructure have enabled us to mitigate the impact of these events.
We rerouted trains where possible while our engineering crews worked around the clock to restore operations.
I'm very proud of the men and women of Union Pacific who faced these challenges head on enabling us to generate year-over-year improvement in both velocity and terminal dwell.
That said we know there is more work to do and we're working diligently to improve service and reduce costs.
Throughout the year you have heard us discuss the importance of resource alignment as a key lever to reduce cost.
While we strive to be as real-time as possible the reality is that there is a time lag in adjusting the resource space especially during periods of volume swings and business mix shifts.
As you can see in the charts on the right we have made meaningful progress right sizing our TE&amp;Y workforce and active locomotive fleet throughout the first half.
Our total TE&amp;Y workforce was down 4% in June versus March.
More than half of the decrease was driven by fewer employees in the training pipeline.
We expect a further reduction in the third quarter.
By the end of June we had around 1200 TE&amp;Y employees either furloughed or on alternative work status and had about 900 locomotives in storage.
This is up from the end of the first quarter when we had around 500 TE&amp;Y employees furloughed or on alternative work status and 475 locomotives in storage.
While we still have some work left to do we are now getting closer to having our resources aligned with demand.
But as always we'll continue to monitor and adjust our work force levels and equipment fleet as volume dictates.
Moving to network productivity.
Even in the face of less than optimal operating conditions and lower volumes we're able to generate some efficiencies during the quarter.
We ran record train lengths in nearly all major categories remaining agile and adapting our transportation plan to current demand.
We were also able to generate efficiency gains within terminals as productivity initiatives led to record terminal productivity despite a decline in the number of cars switched.
Growth capacity investments whether it be in the form of sidings double track or terminal infrastructure have enhanced our ability to generate productivity and have increased the fluid capabilities of our network.
However as was also the case in the prior quarter the associated time lag in adjusting resources to lower volumes continue to lead to inefficiencies in other areas.
This was particularly evident in efficiency metrics such as locomotive productivity which is measured for gross ton miles per horsepower day.
While lower coal and grain volumes did create a mix headwind this suite productivity metric was down 8% versus the second quarter of 2014.
To wrap up as we move into the back half of the year we expect our safety strategy will continue yielding record results on our way to an incident-free environment.
We will continue making operational improvements by leveraging the strengths of our franchise to improve operational performance.
While our resources are now more closely in line with demand we will continue our focus on other productivity initiatives to reduce costs.
Ultimately safety and service will drive our ability to run an efficient network all of which creates value for our customers and increases returns for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks good morning.
Let's start with a recap of our second quarter results.
Operating revenue was just over $5.4 billion in the quarter down 10% versus last year.
A significant decline in volume and lower fuel surcharge revenue along with a negative shift in business mix more than offset another quarter of solid core pricing.
Operating expenses totaled just under $3.5 billion decreasing 9% when compared to last year.
Drivers of this expense reduction where significantly lower fuel expense along with volume-related reductions and cost-saving initiatives.
The net result was an 11% decrease in operating income to $1.9 billion.
Below the line other income totaled $142 million up from $22 million in 2014.
Included in this amount is the previously announced Fremont California land sale which contributed $113 million to pretax income or $0.08 per share to total earnings.
Interest expense of $153 million was up 11% compared to the previous year driven by increased debt issuance during the last 12 months.
Income tax expense decreased 7% to $734 million driven primarily by reduced pretax earnings.
Net income decreased 7% versus last year while the outstanding share balance declined 3% as a result of our continued share repurchase activity.
These results combine to produce a quarterly earnings of $1.38 per share down 3% versus last year.
Now turning to our top line freight revenue of about $5.1 billion was down 10% versus last year.
In addition to a 6% volume decline fuel surcharge revenue was down about $400 million when compared to 2014.
All in we estimate the net impact of fuel price was a $0.06 headwind to earnings in the second quarter versus last year.
This includes the net impact from both fuel surcharges and lower diesel fuel costs.
Of course this is a turnaround from the first quarter where we had the benefit of surcharge lag and more favorable spreads.
Assuming fuel prices and associated spreads remain at current levels we estimate that fuel will be a slight headwind to earnings for the remainder of the year.
Business mix as we guided on our first quarter earnings call was a negative contributor to freight revenue for the second quarter.
The primary drivers of this mix shift were significant declines in bulk grains Frac sand and steel shipments along with an increase in intermodal volumes.
Looking ahead business mix will likely continue to be a headwind to freight revenue for the remainder of the year.
A 4% core price increase was a positive contributor to freight revenue in the quarter.
Slide 21 provides more detail on our core pricing trends.
Core pricing continued at levels that are above inflation and reflects the value proposition that we offer in the marketplace.
Of the 4% this quarter just under a half percent can be attributed to the benefit of the legacy business we renewed earlier this year and this includes both the 2015 and 2016 legacy contract renewals.
Moving on to the expense side slide 22 provides a summary of our compensation and benefits expense which increased 5% versus 2014.
Lower volumes were more than offset by labor inflation increased training expense and operating inefficiencies.
Looking at our total workforce levels our employee count was up 4% when compared to 2014.
About half of this increase was in our capital-related workforce.
Excluding our capital-related employees our force level grew by about 2.5% but is down 500 sequentially from the first quarter.
As Cam just discussed we are continuing to adjust our TE&amp;Y workforce levels to better align with current demand.
While we have made progress we continue to look for every opportunity to right size our workforce and focus on labor productivity.
By year end we now expect our net overall workforce levels to come in somewhat lower than the 48 000 that we reported at the end of last year.
Labor inflation was about 6% for the second quarter driven primarily by agreement wage inflation.
Remember the first two quarters of this year include the 3% agreement wage increase effective the first of this year on top of the 3.5% wage increase from last July.
For the full year we still expect labor inflation to be about 5% including slightly higher pension costs.
Turning to the next slide fuel expense totaled $541 million down 41% when compared to 2014.
Lower diesel fuel prices along with a 10% decline in gross ton miles drove the decrease in fuel expense for the quarter.
Compared to the second quarter of last year our fuel consumption rate deteriorated 2% largely driven by the decline in coal volumes while our average fuel price declined 36% to $1.99 per gallon.
Moving on to the other expense categories.
Purchased services and materials expense decreased 6% to $600 million.
Reduced contract service expenses associated with our subsidiaries was partially offset by an increase in locomotive material expenses.
Depreciation expense was $497 million up 6% compared to 2014.
We still expect depreciation to increase about 6% for the full year.
Slide 25 summarizes the remaining two expense categories.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $312 million which is down 1% when compared to 2014.
Lower locomotive lease and freight car rental expense were the primary drivers.
Other expenses came in at $225 million down 1% versus last year.
Lower personal injury expense was somewhat offset by higher state and local taxes.
Year-to-date other expense is up 7% consistent with our full-year expectation of a 5% to 10% increase excluding any large unusual items.
Turning now to our operating ratio performance the quarterly operating ratio came in at 64.1% an increase of 0.6 points when compared to the second quarter of 2014.
The operating ratio benefited just under a point from the net impact of lower fuel prices in the quarter.
Turning now to our cash flow cash from operations for the first half increased to just under $3.8 billion.
This is up 17% compared to 2014 primarily driven by the timing of tax payments and changes in working capital.
We also invested more than $2.1 billion this half in cash capital investments.
Taking a look at the balance sheet our adjusted debt balance grew to $16.6 billion at quarter end up from $14.9 billion at year end.
This takes our adjusted debt to capital ratio to 44.2% up from 41.3% at year-end 2014.
We continue to target an adjusted debt to cap ratio in the low-to-mid 40% range and an adjusted debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5 plus.
We have made meaningful progress towards our targets as we continue to execute our cash allocation strategies.
Our profitability and cash generation enable to us to continue to fund both our capital program and cash returns to shareholders.
Since the first of the year we have bought back about 15 million shares totaling $1.6 billion.
Between the first and second quarter dividends along with our share repurchases we returned $2.6 billion to our shareholders in the first half of 2015.
This represents roughly a 15% increase over 2014 demonstrating our commitment to increasing shareholder value.
So that's a recap of our second quarter results.
As we look towards the back half of the year we will continue to focus on achieving solid core pricing gains.
However we expect volumes to be down somewhat year over year in the second half given the market dynamics we are experiencing in many of our business segments.
Also as we discussed earlier business mix will continue to be a head wind on freight revenue.
On the expense side we noted on our first quarter earnings call that inefficiencies cost us as much as 2 points on the operating ratio.
We've made good progress since then.
We estimate that these extra costs added just under a point in the second quarter.
In the third quarter we expect to reduce these costs even further.
While we continue to improve it is not likely at this point that we will achieve record earnings on a full year basis given this year's challenges.
Longer term however we expect to be on track to achieve our long term financial guidance.
As always we remain committed to providing our customers with safe efficient service and our shareholders with strong financial returns.
So with that I'll turn it back over to Lance.
Thanks Rob.
With the challenges of the first half now behind us our focus is on the remainder of the year and beyond.
Clearly there are still a lot of moving parts.
We'll keep a close eye on crude oil and natural gas prices the upcoming grain harvest the strong dollar impact on balance of trade as well as the continued demand for autos and the outlook for the consumer economy.
All of this leads to a fluid demand picture across many of our business segments.
While the volume outlook is uncertain we remain laser focused on operating safely and efficiently no matter what the market environment.
We will continue to reduce costs and productivity as we further align resources with demand.
While we've made some progress there is more to be done.
Longer term we continue to be optimistic about the strengths of our diverse rail franchise.
We remain committed to providing excellent service for our customers and strong returns to our shareholders in the years ahead.
So with that let's open up the lines for your questions.
Lance if I can make one comment before we take the first question? Sure.
We just understand here recently that some of you have had trouble accessing the slides on our web site.
They are back up and running now.
So if you have any difficulty we suggest you log out and log back in and they should be up and available for you.
We apologize for that.
Thanks Rob.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Chris Wetherbee with Citigroup.
Good morning.
I wanted to touch on Rob what you wrapped up there with.
When you think about earnings progression as we go through the rest of the year clearly we had the pinch point here in the second quarter with resources relative to volume.
Volume gets better a little bit sequentially and resources are still adjusting.
Do you feel like getting back to year-over-year earnings growth is something that can be achieved by the fourth quarter of this year? I don't want to get too specific in terms of guidance but I just want to get a rough sense of the puts and takes about trying to get back up to a positive trajectory and then thinking out into 2016? We're focused on obviously improving earnings as best we can.
You're exactly right we're going to be laser focused on continuing to align the resources and be as efficient as we can on the costs.
But what we're calling out in my comment to suggesting that it's not likely that we will beat last year's record earnings is the reality of what we're seeing in the business mix particularly the coal volumes.
We're not calling for any dramatic turnaround in our coal volumes.
As Eric pointed out while we are seeing some sequential improvement as we speak right now we are anticipating that that will be a challenge.
The other thing I would just point out Chris in the way you're looking at it is recall last year actually is a very tough comp for the fourth quarter in particular.
So we've got that headwind if you will in terms of getting back above that level.
So we're focused on taking advantage of every opportunity we can but we just see some continuing softness in some of our key markets and that's going to be the key driver.
That's helpful.
Just a quick follow-up on the coal that you mentioned there.
As you see that sequential improvement into 3Q any sense you can give us on how to think about that specific commodity group in the back half or just maybe the third quarter? And maybe where stockpiles are so we can get some rough sense there? Thank you.
Eric can you take care of that for us? It all depends Chris as we always say depending on weather.
Inventory levels are still higher than the 5-year average.
They have come down about three or four days.
The burn is increasing but they are still higher.
The volumes will depend on whether; it will depend a lot on natural gas pricing.
At current natural gas levels it remains a difficult comparison for coal to remain coal.
It's about a 30% 32% market share today versus the 39% 40% last year.
A big change in that is natural gas pricing.
Thanks for your time.
Our next question is coming from the line of Allison Landry with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Thanks good morning.
So I just wanted to talk a little bit about the mix head wind that you mentioned going forward.
So based on some of your comments if grain volumes do end up materializing you do see a rebound in construction products and potentially some muted growth on the intermodal side.
Is there a scenario where mix could be flattish? I'm just trying to understand maybe some of the puts and takes and the magnitude of the negative mix in the back half.
Rob do you want to take that? If what you just outlined Allison came true those would certainly be positive contributors to the mix.
As you know I don't give guidance on mix.
It's rare that we do.
This year is unique in that we are confident that the mix head winds are in front of us.
So we're giving that directional guidance.
I would just remind everyone that because of the great diversity of our business mix which is a strong attribute of the Union Pacific franchise we tend to have a lot of mix swings in our business from quarter to quarter.
So the points that you are making would certainly contribute.
Would they be enough to overcome some of the other head winds like the coal the shale the sand et cetera? Perhaps not but every opportunity we have to you know narrow the gap if you will and improve on the mix we'll certainly take advantage of it.
I'd like to add to that.
This is Lance our commercial team has a robust business development pipeline.
They're pursuing business opportunity that presents itself to us because of our wonderful diverse franchise.
So to Rob's point it's hard to be precise in making a future call.
There are opportunities and puts and takes.
The guidance we've given you is what we think is our best guess.
Okay.
Just a follow-up question.
Could you give us a sense of how much the inefficiencies cost you in the second quarter? Yes Allison just to rephrase that remember we said it was up to about - call that $100 million in the first quarter.
It was closer to just under a point in the second quarter.
From a dollar standpoint we'll call that a $50 million improvement from first to second quarter in those efficiencies.
Again we're focused on continuing aggressively to remove those efficiencies as quickly as we can.
Sorry I missed that last part.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Group with Wolfe research.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
Just want to clarify one quick thing first.
Rob your comments about earnings growth what are you assuming for the second quarter? Is that based on $1.30 or $1.38? In the second quarter $1.38.
I guess what you are getting at is the land sale.
Yes all in.
Okay.
So a question on coal.
We understand some of the pressures but seeing so much more weakness in your volumes relative to BNSF is there any color you can provide on - maybe there is a big market share loss or customer loss that we should be thinking about and when that began? Are you starting to see any pressure from the utilities on a pricing standpoint? I'm going to let Eric answer that question.
As we mentioned at last quarter Scott we do think we came into this year a different place than our western competitor in terms of inventory levels of our key customer utilities and we do think that that has had an impact.
We also think as we mentioned in our comments that some of the flooding and track outages that we experienced particularly in June had an impact that you probably won't see in the numbers of our western competitor.
One of the other impacts that we have seen is that there are probably a couple of specific customers that have had outages that have had challenges in their energy markets in terms of them competing that are probably disproportionately impacting us than our competitor.
We think over time that kind of works its way out.
Certainly in the second quarter it had an impact.
We always compete for business.
We think we have a market value.
We are continuing to focus on the strong price in terms of the second part of your question.
You know we feel good about the market value and the price for our services and that is reflected in our results in the second quarter.
Thanks.
The last question I want to ask about share buybacks.
It seems to me for the past several years you have had this really unique story with the legacy pricing.
That's behind us now but it seems to me you still have a unique opportunity in terms of having by far the least leverage of any of the rails.
Given the weakness in the stock and maybe tougher to grow earnings.
Do you start to think about using that optionality more aggressively? And why not? Scott you know the guidance we've given in terms of the metrics that we're comfortable with.
To your point on the share buyback if you look at the first half of this year compared to last year's first half we're up about 10% in terms of our share buyback and we will continue to be opportunistic and at the prices that we're seeing right now we think those are nice entry points.
So we will - we are certainly as we always have buy more when it's down less when it's up.
Your longer term question I think is answered in our comfort with our longer term metrics that we've given.
Scott this is Lance.
I want to react to something that was in your question which said tougher to grow earnings going forward.
I want to reemphasize what we've constantly focused on with our investors and that is we've got an industry best franchise.
It's got plenty of opportunity for a growth and business development.
We've got plenty of opportunity to continue to improve the productivity and efficiency of operations.
For the very long term we feel very good about our long-term guidance.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Hoexter with Merrill Lynch.
Please go with your question.
Great.
Good morning.
Just a little follow-up on the coal just for a second.
I want to go back to last quarter you thought coal was going to be down 5%.
At that point it was already running down in the mid-teens.
I just want to think back to the inefficiencies as you noted.
Have you been slower to cut costs in addition to the inefficiencies? Lance the question would be what gets to you move quicker? Thinking about how to balance cutting costs and staying ahead of that but then if you get that inflection on volumes at some point to still be prepared? How do you think about how quickly you want to cut out some of those additional costs? Sure.
So Ken putting this all in context right? This time last year second quarter last year we were behind in resources experiencing substantial growth and as rapidly as we could filling our pipeline with new employees.
We came into this quarter or this year and then in the first quarter as you note declined 2% which was not our expectation and then further declined in the second quarter.
So as soon as we recognized this year that we need to make adjustments we've been doing so.
The big thing that has us mismatched right now is really two parts and Rob hit both.
One is our capital program and the type of capital we're spending is demanding that we have more capital head count.
So there's a head count imbalance there that grew year-over-year and our training pipeline where we were just filling it up in the second quarter last year and we're now emptying it out in the second quarter this year.
As we move into the third quarter all of that is happening at a rapid pace and will continue to happen.
I expect by the end of the third quarter much more balance as regards to training and as regards overall head count and resources targeted on the transportation product.
You know answering your question could we do things faster? Hindsight is a luxury we typically don't have in planning the business.
I certainly wish we had better clarity in what our markets would be doing what the mix would look like.
We certainly would be making adjustments more rapidly if we did.
However in the pragmatic world we're in right now there is an opportunity for us to be better.
We're working very hard right now in trying to figure out ways to be more agile with our resources to be quicker in recognizing market shifts and being quicker and being able to take those actions.
So I think it's a fair question.
I appreciate that seems tough to see with some more volatility on the volume side.
On the follow up maybe just throwing it to Eric.
On I think the question before was talking about more on the coal side and the competition.
If you are seeing that impacting pricing? It seems like with your positive 4% pure pricing.
But I want to understand are you seeing across the other commodities as Burlington has improved their service levels are you seeing increased competition on the volume side? And any thoughts on pricing and what that may do outside of your legacy renewals.
Ken we always say we have a tough competitor.
They always have been.
Always will be.
Not only is the Burlington a tough competitor but we compete with other railroads and other markets.
We also compete with trucks.
Trucks are also a tough competitor and lower fuel prices are helping them.
That being said we feel good about our value proposition we're continuing to focus on the strategies and initiatives to improve our value proposition.
It's our goal to have the best service and value proposition in the industry.
If we do that we think we'll be able to price appropriately for our value.
Thanks for the time and insight.
The next question is from the line of Brandon Oglenski with Barclays.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Rob can I follow up on this line of questions here? Just thinking about your OR or your margins in the back half of the year.
I think if we look back the last couple of years you've had quite a bit of sequential improvement and profitability.
We're talking a lot of pluses and minuses here.
Business mix should be negative still lower volumes year on year but sequentially improving.
Still getting price.
Then you talked a lot about the fuel impact in the second quarter and how that could be incremental headwind.
You have wage inflation but head count reduction.
So as you balance all of this out with the best view right now how do you feel about the operating ratio heading into the second half of the year? Yes.
There's a lot of moving parts as you point out.
Fuel being a big one in terms of the impact that that has on the operating ratio itself.
But our focus would be that that is an opportunity still for to us make year-over-year improvement.
The way things look at this point in time fuel would probably help in that regard unless it dramatically changes and spikes up.
We are focused on for all of the efficiencies that we plan on taking the continued focus on price the diverse opportunities that still will present themselves.
We are focused on still improving the operating ratio year-over-year.
That's helpful.
Eric can you comment a little bit on grain markets? There is a big discussion that if we have another big harvest or relatively large harvest which I think the government is calling for right now how much of that can we actually store if folks decide they don't want to sell into a lower commodity price environment? Or is there just not that much storage? Are we going to end up having to move the volume anyways? The outlook right now is that the yields look strong.
Still relatively early in the growing season so anything could happen from a weather standpoint.
Right now the projections are while it may not be a record crop like the last two years it still will be a pretty strong corn and bean crop.
As you suggest storage of crops are relatively high because US grain has not been able to compete as effectively because there have been strong world grain crops and the strong US dollar.
So there is a speculation that says if it is a strong crop there will have to have the current products or the crop move and so that would be a positive for us in the second half of the year.
You know there's always uncertainty in our markets but that is one of the scenarios that could be positive for the transportation system.
Next question is coming from the line of David Vernon with Bernstein research.
Rob with the weather events that we had this year being a lot worse than last year is there any estimate for the costs that you may be incurred this quarter that wouldn't be there if weather would have been a little more favorable or is that too hard to call? I think it's just too hard to call David to be honest.
It would be rolled up in those inefficiencies that I called out.
From a mix perspective the revenue tonne mile was - tonne miles were down 14% relative to the car load decline of mid-single digit.
Where in the business Eric do you see the biggest negative mix on the length of haul right now? As Rob said there's a lot of ins and outs in terms of mix and we actually have had ins and outs in terms of mix across the business line.
Coal certainly is a negative mix item as you might imagine but we have grown our intermodal business which is a longer haul so that would be positive.
There's always lots of ins and outs.
Is the fall off in Frac sand for example - were those sort of longer length of haul than your average industrial product shipment? Frac sand is right around the average length of haul for industrial products.
Certainly the fall off from that has had a revenue mix impact as Rob talked about.
Alright.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Tom Wadewitz with UBS.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask you about volumes in second half and I know that you know it's a directional question.
I know it's hard to have tons of granularity on this stuff but volumes are down 6% year-over-year in second quarter.
I think the comparison's maybe just a touch easier in third.
The way we should look at this is less worse year-over-year in third quarter.
Is that a pretty reasonable assumption? When you look at fourth quarter a little bit less worse? And how would you - any broad comments on just thinking about modeling volumes year over year third quarter and fourth quarter? Before I let Rob speak to it in perhaps more detail the way we're thinking about volumes in the second half and we said it is - We're expecting a normal seasonal pattern so seasonally we see a peak in the second half and the third quarter.
But there's a lot of reason for to us think that it's a muted peak.
So I think that's sequentially better but there's head winds against the year-over-year.
Rob? I would just reiterate what we said earlier.
And that is we expect them to be down somewhat in the back half.
We're not giving quarterly guidance on the volume but the thing I would just point out is that I'd like to think that the sequential improvement that we're starting to see that Eric pointed out in coal will help in that third quarter year-over-year look.
Then the fourth quarter is a little more of a challenge for us.
So we're not calling it.
But we're certainly focused and hopeful that things from a year-over-year perspective don't look like a 6% down kind of number but we're not giving precise guidance on that.
That's good.
I appreciate the comments.
Then the follow-up question on the expenses.
Obviously there's a lag on some of these items so I suppose training expense and maybe in some of your materials expense and some others.
How would I look sequentially at some of these categories where you have seen improvement.
You know if I look at purchased services you are down quite a bit sequentially.
Is that down more in third quarter versus second? Another category rents was kind of flat sequentially.
Are some of those categories down more in absolute terms in third quarter versus second? Rob? Thank you.
This probably won't shock you but you're going to stump me in terms of trying to get into individual expense categories.
But I would just say that all of the categories are stones that we are uncovering and looking for opportunities.
Labor of course shows up across the board and that I would say as a large position is what we're really focused on.
That might show up of course in multiple expense categories.
As I pointed out remember we took the $100 million of inefficiency or misalignment in the first quarter down to let's call it $50 million-ish in the second quarter and we're focused on going after that $50 million and then some.
Our focus is to not just stop there but continue to achieve as efficient of operations as we possibly can matching against demand.
So long answer to your short question but would I say it's across the board that we are going to expect ourselves to make improvements.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Bascome Majors with Susquehanna.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes thanks for taking my question here.
So clearly there were a lot of volatility and low visibility in the second quarter relative to where you thought you were in earning the quarter from a demand perspective.
I'm curious now versus two or three months ago what's your sense from your customers? Are they seeing more stability and low visibility? Is there any conviction that things have stabilized on top of the comments you made on coal earlier? Let me start with that and then we'll get it to the expert in Eric.
When you look at our top line the story that we talked about in the first quarter really is the same in the second quarter just more acute.
That is there are areas of the economy that feel pretty stable and pretty good.
It's reflected in the consumer side of the economy and specifically in things like our automotive shipments in the domestic intermodal product a couple of things like that.
This acute impact in the energy side of our business specifically coal and shale energy-related product is largely driving that top line problem.
Eric? That's right.
I'm not sure there's much to add but the economy feels pretty good.
Most of the macroeconomic indicators are going in the right direction.
You know them as well as I do and we're seeing that in our business.
The issue we have is a significant shortfall on coal driven by natural gas mild weather and some episodic issues with some large customers of ours.
And frankly the falloff in our share-related business.
But aside from that the economic indicators and the economy - customers are feeling pretty good.
Trend's already up the correct direction.
Thank you for that.
If I could just get one more in on the margin front.
You mentioned that the headwinds from operational inefficiencies were about a point less in 2Q versus 1Q.
But if I net out the impact of fuel surcharge you'd have to go back quite a ways to see the net year-over-year margin decline as steep as you saw this quarter.
As we try to directionally understand the drivers here.
Can you rank order; mix demand related and simply a function of what the marketplace is giving you versus you know whether it's a timing lag between the shifts you've seen in the marketplace and you have addressed the resource resizing already to some extent? How significant is the net fuel headwind for the year that you alluded to in your prepared remarks earlier? So Rob you want to take this one? Let me try to answer that simply by saying they're all contributors and they're all challenges that we deal with in our delay daily lives.
But I would say if you look at the second quarter the biggest hit if you would would start with volume driven by coal.
Second on the list is the mix impact which obviously is impacted by the coal fall-off as well.
But the mix impact of changing within our business mix the sand etcetera; the grains etcetera those would be the big drivers.
What's part disappointing and part encouraging - and Cameron walked us through this.
We had areas of real productivity improvement that our team drove both the commercial and the operating team from the standpoint of train size improvement to near record levels on almost every product.
Continued improvement and switching efficiency and it was overwhelmed by this mismatch this imbalance in resources.
We're aggressively going after that we'll get that right.
Thanks for that color.
I really appreciate it.
Our next question is Brian Ossenbeck with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your questions.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
Clearly a lot going on in the volume aspect.
I wanted to talk more about the regulatory front where there's also a lot going on.
I got two transportation spending bills in congress.
When you look in the senate version which may or may not make it there's actually a whole lot of stuff about rail PTC hazardous materials recording devices etcetera.
So with that and the recent challenge put on the - [Technical Difficulty] standards - if you could give us a high level view - [Technical Difficulty] it's always there; that's always something to look at and be cognizant of but anything that you are especially focused on for the remainder of the 2015 into next year? Brian you broke up a little bit when you were asking the detail of your question.
Let me tell you what I think I heard and you tell me if that's right.
You are asking broadly there's a lot going on in the regulatory environment and what do we see coming out of that in the rest of the year and next year? Yes that's good.
Thanks.
Okay.
Our first primary focus in Washington is an extension on positive train control or PTC.
We've been crystal clear with our regulators and elected officials that we need that that Union Pacific is not going to make the deadline.
There is really no railroad that will make that deadline.
The industry needs an extension.
I believe everybody understands that.
It looks like there's an opportunity to have that happen as maybe part of a highway bill or some other vehicle.
The hard part of that is we've got to start making plans in case a PTC extension does not occur.
And we'll then have to start communicating to our affected customers and commuter agencies what those plans are and what the timing is.
That probably starts up sometime in September.
There is a bit of a clock ticking on that.
The second thing we're focused on intently is HAZMAT regulation as you pointed out.
We are in that dialogue.
We think the regulation as published by the DOT has a couple of flaws.
More broadly we're very supportive of a new tank car standard.
We've been asking for it both as a company and as an industry for years.
We are working diligently to get that standard right to make it more safe than it currently is.
The last thing we're working pretty hard on is different issues in front of the STB which is our commercial regulator.
We're active in that dialogue and trying to navigate that for the best of our company.
Okay thanks.
That was a good overview.
Hopefully I've found a better spot for cell signal for the quick follow-up.
I was wondering with all of the stuff going on with coal as you look into next year anything - this is another regulatory question with the Mets ruling being kicked down to the circuit court by the Supreme Court a couple of weeks ago.
Do you think that - one every really had any impact in your service area.
And two if it did you see any potential benefit from that rule being thrown back for reconsideration.
I'm going to let Eric answer that specific question on coal emissions regulation.
I'll just start with a broad statement.
We believe coal needs to continue to be a robust part of electricity generation in the United States.
It's low cost it's abundant and it can be clean in terms of its emissions.
That's very important for the US economy and for the US manufactures to be competitive on a global scale.
Eric? In terms of the specific question we don't think that the - while we applaud the ruling we don't think it's going to have a significant impact.
Either entities were already planning for it and/or they might still plan for it just because they don't know what might happen on the inevitable appeal that will occur.
Or it wasn't going to have a significant issue anyway.
So the fact that it was remanded I don't think is going to have a significant impact one way or the other.
Alright Lance and Eric thank you for your time.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Bill Greene with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Lance and Rob I want to just explore a little bit the relationship between OR and the coal franchise.
As you know a lot of investors think of coal as being highly profitable.
If coal weren't to come back or even to go down further from here - in a longer term sense like a secular decline does it impede your ability to achieve your long term OR? Or do you feel like productivity and price alone can allow you to achieve that even if the coal franchise ends up much smaller than it is today? I'll let Rob answer more specifically.
I'll give you an overarching reaction and that is there are lots of puts and takes in our business over the long term.
Our franchise is such that we've always been able to find growth opportunities and take advantage of them and I'll remind you that our overall business strategy is predicated on an industry best - a demonstrably better service product and pricing for that value.
Along with productivity all of that tells me I am confident in our long-term OR guidance.
Rob? I would reiterate what you just said.
First of all we're not calling for the death of coal as a business unit for us.
We're experiencing a bit of a hiccup here.
But I would say first of all obviously that size of a business is a positive contributor to our OR.
As it shrinks or any business shrinks we have as we've talked and as you know we have a lot of diverse opportunities in front of us that give us a lot of confidence.
That's what keeps us as confident as ever that we could still meet our long-term OR guidance.
If we were to see it take a step down any business unit take a step down we would have to do the things that we have done over the last decade.
That is right size our organization and make sure we are being smart about adjusting our costs accordingly so that we can continue to make progress on our financial results.
Okay fair enough.
A follow-up question is on the dollar.
A lot of investors sort of ask me about whether rails were really sort of pseudo commodity plays and a weak dollar effectively caused a lot of stuff in North America to move not just sort of by rail but a broader industrial implication.
So do you feel like a strong dollar impedes your ability to get the car loads back to let's say over $180 000 a week? Is this sort of a real risk factor that we need to keep in mind when we think about longer term volumes? I don't think so.
You know certainly as you know when you have strong currency moves one way or the other it could affect commodity flows.
We see that in all of our commodity markets.
But long term North America is still kind of a strong productive secure relatively low cost place of production.
It's also a huge consumption market.
Those things will continue to drive us being in the sweet spot for our transportation services whether it's export or import.
Long term it doesn't move the needle.
Thanks for the time.
Our next question is with Rob Salmon with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your questions.
If I could shift it back to the core pricing I was a little bit surprised that it actually was stable sequentially at that up 4% with half a point coming from the legacy with weaker coal volumes.
Robert could you talk more about what drove that? I would have thought with less coal it would have been a head wind to core pricing.
So any additional color if it's coming from the 2016 renewal that you got a little bit more of a benefit this quarter and you are just getting stronger pricing across the franchise? I'm going to throw it to Eric but I'm very proud of the team for their results in the second quarter and a very difficult environment.
The effectively priced for the value of the product and that was a good outcome.
Rob can talk about the legacy impact.
But we are doing what we said.
We have a value product and we're pricing for it.
Specifically to the legacy question I would say that was comparable to what we saw in the first quarter where we said about a half point of the four was legacy roughly.
But you are also pointing out and again I'm as confident as Lance and Eric and pleased with that performance.
I think it shows that we're getting value in the marketplace.
As you are also pointing out and just to reiterate for others the way we calculate our core price is if it doesn't move we don't count it.
We're hopeful that if and when coal resumes some of the volume pick up that some of those repriced contracts will be positive contributors to our margins as we move forward.
Rob can you give us a sense had coal either been flat or the decline in line with Q1 in terms of overall car loads what core pricing would have looked like this past quarter? I really can't give you that size.
And there's a big mix even within the coal line.
I'm not giving that level of specificity but suffice it to say there was some value left there by not moving it.
Fair enough.
Appreciate the time.
Our next question is from the line of Jason Seidl of Cowen and Company.
Good morning.
I want to talk a little bit about the intermodal franchise.
Can you focus on going forward just how much you think the competition has increased from the truckload side as some capacity has crept back into the marketplace? And also longer term given the issues that the west coast ports have had do you feel there's a chance that the west coast could lose some permanent market share to the east coast? Jason in terms of the first question clearly lower fuel prices will incrementally nominally make truckers more competitive and clearly as the shale play has gone down there appears to be what we think is a temporary alleviation with some of the driver shortages or a temporary reduction I should say.
There still are long-term driver shortages out there but some of the move of labor from that to truck drivers has alleviated some of the shortage.
So trucks continue to be a competitive option.
I would point out in the second quarter we set again another all-time domestic intermodal record.
Our volumes set another record.
We continue to see huge conversion opportunities and we think as we have the service value proposition we'll continue to be able to penetrate and take advantage of that.
In terms of the west coast port clearly that had an impact.
Certainly in the first quarter and the second quarter as some of the backlogs were cleaned up that had a positive impact.
But as we said we had a tough comp year-over-year because of the free shipping that occurred the previous year.
I think one of the things that are instructive is kind of the spread rates the ocean spread rates between east coast and west coast.
The east coast ocean rates have actually increased about $250 on a spot basis over the last couple of months which basically is making the west coast ports even more competitive than what they were before the strikes.
So we think that there's some risk that there might be some nominal temporary rerouting as a supply chain risk management approach.
I think there's some surveys out there that says companies might move 5% of the supply chain risk management.
We're not really seeing that and we still think the west coast ports have an economic and a time value for product going pretty deep into the east.
Thank you for the details.
For a follow up Rob maybe this is for you.
Looking at all of the puts and takes in 2Q and looking forward barring any other volume unexpected volume shocks do you view 2Q as sort of the low water mark for your margins? There's a lot of moving parts.
I would answer that by saying we're focused on making that statement true.
Of course we're going to go after and we are making progress as we pointed out the inefficiency misalignment but what we'll have to wait and see is exactly how the volumes play out and all those variables and what fuel does et cetera.
But I'd like to believe that that statement will become true.
Okay fair enough.
Gentlemen thank you for your time as always.
Our next question is from Tom Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
With regard to domestic coal were you impacted at all by coal fire utility plant retirements in the second quarter? Then also if Nat gases remain stable would you expect any further coal-to-gas switching for the second half of the year? There's no impact from coal plant retirements.
There's still significant surplus capacity.
Both coal and other sources.
So there was no impact on the retirement.
We do not expect significant incremental switching.
I think all of that can switch is switching given current natural gas pricing.
That's helpful.
Then just on the intermodal yields.
Can you talk about what drove the sequential Q-and-Q and then year-on-year deterioration in your average intermodal ARPU's? ARC.
Intermodal ARC.
Yes.
As for all of our businesses in the second quarter the ARC was really dominated by the fuel surcharge reduction.
I would also say Tom and mix - mix within each commodity group can also show up in there.
There was no other marquee driver of that change.
Okay.
So no change of length of haul or anything like that.
Just mostly that surcharge part.
Right.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Justin Long with Stephens.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks and good morning.
Good morning.
With your coal volumes down substantially right now I was curious does that change your approach to pricing in your non-coal businesses? In other words do you have the thought process that non-coal pricing now needs to move higher to maintain the return profile of the consolidated business or do you view the pricing dynamics between coal and non-coal completely separately? I'm going to let Eric answer in more detail but our team prices every single move on the value of that move to the customer.
Eric? Nothing else that's it.
As a follow up as we look into next year if coal does continue to weaken and you are losing that high margin business how are you thinking about where CapEx as a percentage of revenue needs to go in order to maintain or improve the current return profile of the business? This is Rob.
As you know the long-term guidance that we've given on our capital spending is in that 16% to 17% of revenue and we're not calling for the fall off or significant further declination in coal.
But if it did we would - as we always do with our costs we would right size.
I would also just point out your question reminds me that given what we're seeing this year we expect that metric of capital spending versus revenue to be a little bit higher this year given what we're seeing in this fall off.
But if you look longer term we would right size the organization both from an OE and from a capital standpoint.
But that's not the guidance I'm giving because that's not where we are at this point in time.
But we would take those steps.
Something else to keep in mind Justin is we've got plenty of capital capacity already built for the coal network.
It's not really driving CapEx today.
Thanks.
Appreciate the time today.
Our next question is from the line of Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham research group.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Thank you very much.
You know a lot of my questions have been asked but let me come back to the capital question.
Just given the realignment of resources how are your capital priorities changing ex-PTC? Ex-PTC we do our capital planning in a similar fashion year after year after year.
We take a long term view of what we think markets are going to look like; we see how that lays in the existing network; we find where the hot spots exist from the standpoint of line of road constraint or terminal constraint and then we target capital on that.
There is a little bit of capital that gets spent on things like a specific project or a specific piece of business development and then of course there is a very large piece of capital that gets spent on consuming the existing network and maintaining it.
And of course that's driven by volumes and consumption.
Cameron is there - what else do you want to add to that? I think you covered it all Lance.
Our focus continues to be on the southern region with a lot of our capacity CapEx.
That's being driven by Eric's forecast.
Alright.
A little follow-up to that.
An unusual outage on the I-10 freight corridor with the rains in Southern California.
Is this an opportunity for the intermodal franchise? Is this forcing a lot of trucking capacity from LA to Phoenix to find alternatives? That is one of our franchise corridors as you know.
It has been.
We've invested in that corridor over time.
We are growing and will continue to grow.
The temporary flooding that is happening out there because of the rains - As you know trucks always have lots of ways to reroute.
So there would be no significant incremental impact due to that.
That is an area and a market that we're going after with our franchise.
We have and we'll continue.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Cherilyn Radbourne with TD Securities.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Thanks very much and good morning.
Most of my questions have been asked.
I was just curious in terms of the resource imbalance can you just give a bit of color as to how much of that is head count and how much is locomotives and other equipment? Yes so we are balancing locomotives real-time to match the transportation plan which matches what demand is telling us.
So local motives from a storage count are very close to being about the right size.
Right now we have something like 900 locomotives in storage.
The head count issue again is a little bit part capital which is all about whatever our capital plan is and part we have too many in the training pipeline and too many kind of coming out of the training pipeline.
That furlough count which I think we said was about 1200 at the end of the quarter.
You know depending on what happens with attrition and demand that will continue to ebb and flow.
Right now it's growing.
So we can make the fungible side of headcount the individuals that are actually working and productive match real-time.
It's the mechanism to get qualified trained employees that are taking us a little bit more time to get right.
Okay that's helpful.
That's all for me thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of John Larkin with Stifel.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Thanks gentlemen for taking my question.
I wanted to bore into intermodal a little bit more one of your shining stars in the quarter volume wise.
The truckload carriers on the contract side of their business at least are getting in quite a few cases 6% 6.5% yield improvement and anecdotally I've heard from a number of mostly privately held IMC's that you all are putting in some pretty aggressive price actions also that would in theory still maintain that cost advantage vis-a-vis truckload.
The pricing is obscured by that fuel surcharge that Eric talked about a minute ago which depresses the ARC.
Can you talk a little bit about whether this is one of your strong initiatives on pricing and whether you are really getting a lot of follow through with that or pushback from customers and whether that has moved the profitability of intermodal so that it is on par with the other commodity groups? No customer ever wants to take a price increase.
They are always very tough discussions.
We are taking market price increases across our book of business every segment of our business based on our value proposition.
And we're going to continue to do that.
Are the price increases in the vicinity of what the truckload carriers are getting or are you not going to share that with us? We reported the 4% core price increase and we're focused on getting appropriate price increases.
You know we don't break it out by individual commodity group but as Eric and the team - they are laser focused on improving the profitability in the intermodal group as they are across the board.
We're going to continue to do that.
As a follow on can you talk a little about intermodal service which had a lot of hiccups in 2014 due to weather congestion in Chicago growth in the new energy markets at least.
How is intermodal service tracking this year and when would you expect it to be back at say 2012 or early 2013 levels? Once it reaches that level do you think there's some latent demand out there that will come back onto the railroad once you have more of a truckload-like service product.
Our first OS - that's our on-time origin departure for intermodal product continues to increase.
We're not quite back to 2013 or 2012 levels but we're making very good progress.
Particularly in Los Angeles and in Chicago.
Over the road performance we're still looking as you can tell by our AAR velocity metric.
We're still looking for a mile an hour.
We're properly resourced we've got great initiatives to go find that mile an hour and deliver it.
We just don't have a stake in the ground as to when that will be achieved.
We expect to make that improvement throughout the course of the year.
I would say our goal was to be the best.
So we're clearly not satisfied with where our service is and we're going to focus where Cam and his team my team we're working on.
How do we improve the overall customer experience? And it's an intense focus and I think as we go into the future our goal is continuous improvement to improve what we take to the market.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Matt Troy with Nomura Asset Management.
Please go ahead with your question.
Just given the time of year typically from an accounting perspective people revisit incentive comp and stock based accruals in second and fourth quarter.
I was wondering on a run rate basis was that a help during the quarter as we've seen at other railroads as everyone struggled with the lower volume environment and stock prices which have declined.
If not when might we expect in light of the guidance for the lack of earnings growth this year that that might flow through and help the comp line? I just want to make sure we avoid some of the lumpiness we've seen in other railroads.
I would say that it's a little bit in the second quarter.
I'm not calling out or guiding that you are going to see anything lumpy in our numbers.
I would say there was a little bit of an impact that showed up actually in our second quarter.
The second piece would be to revisit it in the fourth quarter? Is that typically how it runs? Or how does it go? Yes we always look at - each quarter we look at what is the performance? So we'll stay tuned in terms of what impact that has in the back half.
I don't envision it being lumpy as you are citing.
Okay.
And my follow-up - thank you for that Rob.
In light of the $0.01 rally in natural gas today could you just refresh us in terms of the switching friction or switching capability of your utility customers? Obviously there's not a singular point or price in Nat gas let's say $3.50 where everyone just cuts back.
It's more gradated than that.
Just wondering if we buck the consensus that gas is going to stay low and vision or dream that one day gas prices might start to march north? Could you just help us understand what is the band at which people begin to contemplate going back to coal and where coal might take some share back on the grid relative to your customer base? Matt as you say it is a wide continuum.
There are probably utilities that Coal looks favorable as low as $3 some $3.50 some $4.
It is a wide continuum.
Our next question is from Cleo Zagrean with Macquarie.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Good morning and thank you.
I will follow up on prior questions in terms of pricing for coal and intermodal.
Could you help us explain if maybe fuel is a better headwind such that overall in terms of coal price performance was close to the average of 4% for the company? Any insight you could help us with would be appreciated.
This is Rob.
Let me reiterate that we don't break it out what pricing we're actually getting within each commodity group.
But I would just point out that to your point on the impact that fuel might have had we have some 60-plus different fuel surcharge mechanisms.
So they do vary from group to group and the timing of those can be different and can impact from quarter to quarter what the recorded ARC number looks at.
Again our overall pricing success was 4% core price.
We're confident that we're doing all of the right things in all of the commodity groups to improve that.
Okay.
Then my follow-up relates to the outlook for coal and your network longer term.
You were saying that it's tough to adjust the network from one quarter to the next understandably so.
But are you seeing any significant challenges to coal volumes from upcoming gas capacities in 2017 2018? And since you would have time to prepare for that how can you adjust the networks to mitigate that potential negative impact? And you are saying also the diversity of the franchise allows for your long-term goals to be maintained.
What would be the one main positive offset to a decline? So a continued secular decline in coal? Thank you.
As we said before the big factors for coal again will be the cost of natural gas and weather.
Today there is surplus capacity on coal; there's surplus capacity on natural gas today.
The capacity isn't really as much as a driver as it is the point at which one dispatches versus another.
It's different for different utilities.
Again I think $3 to $4 depending on utilities is probably the range that most utilities see today.
Okay.
So you're not seeing the need to significantly adjust resources longer term on account of what you see in coal? We are adjusting our resources constantly to match both what near-term demand looks like and what we think long-term demand looks like.
We'll make those adjustments as the marketplace dictates.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Ben Hartford with Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
Quick question Eric.
If I look within industrial products and the 35% of the volume that is construction what is the split between res and non-res construction within that? Do you know? Yes so I don't have it in terms of the overall construction number.
If you want to just split out lumber historically lumber was two-thirds one-third.
Right now it's probably closer to half to half.
But again housing starts are improving sequentially.
The housing start number for June just came up that was significantly improved I think 10% improved over the previous month.
There's still more multi-family than single family but the split here recently has probably been more 60%-40% versus 65%-35% or 55%-45%.
So if I look at the 5% volume contraction within construction can you help me rectify that in the context of some of the improvement that we have seen as it relates to housing starts recently? As I said in my prepared comments the majority of that was in our rock and our cement most of which goes on the commercial side.
That was really weather-related.
The demand is really really strong.
We're seeing that sequentially here even in the recent weeks.
The second quarter there were some heavy rains that impacted the volumes that we saw.
Okay that's helpful.
Thanks.
Our next question is from the line of John Barnes with RBC.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Hey on the resource side is there anything in the labor contracts that prevents you from right sizing the labor force faster or more aggressively than what you've done already? And are there any prohibitions about shifting that labor around to spots where it might be in more need? So I'm going to start and then I'll pass it to Cam.
The short answer is not really.
Our collective bargaining agreements dictate things like rates of pay what exactly the work needs to look like.
Some work environment issues.
Typically doesn't have much headwind to us when it comes to right sizing.
When we talk about again having the training pipeline fatter if you will than it was second quarter last year that's about us making decisions about continuing to train because we will graduate them into work either immediately or in the near term and it would be just more disruptive and more costly to take them out of training and then start over again from scratch two or three or four months from now.
Cam? I think you answered that perfectly.
There is great flexibility to answer your second question on flexing appropriate resources to the network as required.
So no issue there.
To go back to the intermodal question earlier.
If I go back to my notes on your last analyst meeting you were already talking about the potential for a couple of more percentage points of market share movement from the west coast to the east coast.
I understand what you are saying about ocean shipping rates and that kind of thing but the ILA is already out talking about doing a ten-year labor deal in order to provide you know labor certainty to the east coast ports where the west coast laborer contract is a year shorter still leaves some very large issues like the Cadillac tax out there left unnegotiated as of yet.
Is there any concern that the severity of the downturn this last time has more permanently impaired the west coast ability to attract that volume back and is some of that volume shift we've seen more permanent than maybe you would originally have expected it to be? Yes so it's always a concern.
It's in our franchise interest to have the proportion of business go through the west coast.
So that's always something we look at.
At the end of the day we do believe economics win out and today and we believe in the future unless there's some substantial change a difference between east coast west coast.
Today the west coast option is the economically better option to go deep into the east.
We've historically said that the Appalachian mountain chain was a crossover point.
Things west of that typically it's clear.
The west coast is a better economic option.
Things east of that the east coast is a better competitor.
You know we'll always look at that.
We do not believe anything substantial or significant has changed economically from the historical equation.
There may be some minor adjustments for supply chain risk management issues in the short term but we're not seeing anything significant or sustainable.
Okay.
All right.
Just a follow up on that.
If there's any pressure on your international intermodal volumes are you in a position to more aggressively grow the domestic intermodal piece as a means of offsetting any of that weakness? Thanks for your time.
I'm not sure I would connect the two.
The domestic market is where we have been growing.
I mean if you look at it the international market has been - has had a much smaller slope.
The domestic market shares huge truck conversion.
You're still going to have a huge investment needed for highways.
You can talk about we're not really investing in the highway trust fund.
You can talk to getting agreement.
You can talk about the driver shortages.
You can talk about the economic and the environmental benefit of intermodal versus over-the-road trucks.
It's a story that we've been talking about for the last half dozen years.
We still think that there's a growth opportunity story there on the domestic intermodal side.
Again the second quarter was an all-time record for us on the domestic intermodal side.
We think that on a volume basis we think that there is still opportunities.
Okay.
Thanks for your time.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Keith Schoonmaker with Morningstar.
Please go ahead with your questions.
I'd like to ask about a sector I believe there is a little more cause for optimism.
And Chemicals are material high ARC segments in the franchise.
Excluding crude I think some classes of chemical carloads do nicely maybe even double digits in the period.
So while natural gas hurts coal but could you look a little further out comment on the flip side of cheap natural gas and share some of your expectations for chemical product manufacturing development? We've talked in the past and continue to talk about the huge plastic expansion that we're going to see in this country with the low natural gas prices.
We think that you are going to see it even with natural gas going up to as much as $5 - $4.50 $5 we think that's still the sweet spot for the expansion that's happening in the Gulf.
We have a great franchise.
It's a franchise strength of ours to take advantage of it.
There's billion multi-billion dollars of investments going on.
And I think we've said publicly that we think we'll see the benefit of a lot of that starting in 2017 and 2018.
But we think that is a franchise strength of ours.
I'd like to ask a question about operations on the subject of right-sizing the locomotive fleet.
Could you discuss how you think about the value of removing one locomotive from the fleet? Are most of these removed assets going to surge capacity storage rather than being sold or divested or do they show up in lower lease expense? So just the value of removing a single locomotive please? This is Rob.
Let me jump in.
If Cam wants to add he certainly can.
Keith I'm not going to break that out but I would just say that of course when we get a new locomotive and we have an opportunity to put another locomotive in storage or just through efficient operations we have an opportunity to put a unit in storage we're putting the least efficient of the fleet in.
We're always looking at - are there opportunities? For the most part those go into our storage and they are there available for surge.
Where there are opportunities for us to discontinue an existing lease or something we'll do that but that's not a big driver at this point in time.
I think it's safe to assume that as we free up a locomotive it's going to be our least efficient from a fuel standpoint from a maintenance standpoint and from a DPU standpoint that goes into that surge category.
There's an aggregate benefit that the fewer locomotives we have active in the fleet the less maintenance we have to do in aggregate.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes the question and answer session.
I will now turn the call back over to Lance Fritz for closing comments.
Thank you all for your questions and your interest in Union Pacific today.
We look forward to talking with you again in October.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to Union Pacific's Third Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Lance Fritz Chairman President and CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you Mr.
Fritz.
You may now begin.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
Welcome to Union Pacific's third quarter earnings conference call.
With me here today in Omaha are Eric Butler Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; Cameron Scott Executive Vice President of Operations; and Rob Knight our Chief Financial Officer.
This morning Union Pacific is reporting net income of $1.3 billion for the third quarter of 2015.
This equates to $1.50 per share which is down 2% compared to the third quarter of 2014.
Total volumes decreased about 6% in the quarter more than offsetting another quarter of solid core pricing gains.
Carload volume declined in five of our six commodity groups with coal down the most at 15%.
Automotive was the one commodity group with a year-over-year increase in the quarter with carloads up 5% versus 2014.
On the cost side we made significant progress aligning our resources to current demand.
And I am pleased to report a quarterly record operating ratio of 60.3%.
Going forward we will be intently focused on generating further productivity improvements.
In addition developing new business remains an important part of our strategy whether we grow existing markets develop new business with existing customers or find new market opportunities our commercial team is constantly filling the business development pipeline.
I'm encouraged with the progress we have made as the men and women of Union Pacific worked tirelessly and safely to serve our customers and deliver value to our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it over to Eric.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
In the third quarter our volume was down 6.5% with gains in automotive more than offset by declines in the other business groups.
We generated core pricing gains of 3.5% but it was not enough to offset decreased fuel surcharge and mix headwinds as average revenue per car declined 4% in the quarter.
Overall the declines in volume and lower average revenue per car drove a 10% reduction in freight revenue.
Let's take a closer look at each of the six business groups.
Ag products revenue was down 4% on a 3% volume reduction and a 1% decrease in average revenue per car.
Grain volume was down 11% in the third quarter.
The strong US dollar and high worldwide inventories reduced grain exports by 32%.
Slightly stronger domestic grain shipments partially offset the export decline.
Grain products volume increased 1% for the quarter.
July and August saw the largest domestic soybean meal crush on record resulting in a 17% increase in soybean meal shipments.
Partially offsetting this was a 4% decline in ethanol shipments driven by strong 2014 comps of higher production and shipments.
Food and refrigerator product volumes were flat for the quarter as strength in import sugar and barley were offset by declines in frozen meat and potato shipments.
Automotive revenue was flat in the third quarter as a 5% increase in volume was offset by a 5% reduction in average revenue per car.
Finished vehicle shipments were up 5% this quarter driven by continued strength in consumer demand.
The seasonally adjusted annual rate for North American automotive sales was 17.8 million vehicles in the third quarter up 6% from last year.
In auto parts volume grew 5% driven primarily by increased vehicle production.
Chemicals revenue was down 6% for the quarter on a 3% reduction in both volume and average revenue per car.
We continue to see strength in plastics shipments which were up 7% in the third quarter due to stable resin pricing and strong export volume.
However our volume gains were more than offset by declines in shipments of both fertilizer and crude oil.
Lower grain commodity prices and market uncertainty resulted in farmers delaying fertilizer purchases.
This resulted in a 10% decline in our fertilizer volume.
Crude oil volume which was down 40% in the quarter continues to be impacted by lower crude oil prices and unfavorable price spreads.
Coal revenue declined 18% in the third quarter on a 15% volume decline and 4% decrease in average revenue per car.
Southern Powder River Basin tonnage was down 12% in the quarter.
Low natural gas prices continue to put downward pressure on coal demand as coal share of electricity generation declined from 38% in the third quarter of last year to 35% this year.
Coal inventories which are currently 20 days above the five-year average contributed to the sluggish demand.
Colorado Utah tonnage was down 32% driven again by soft domestic demand and reduced export shipments.
Industrial products revenue was down 16% on a 12% decline in volume and 4% decrease in average revenue per car during the quarter.
Our reduction in shale drilling resulted in a 31% decline in minerals volume primarily driven by a 36% decrease in frac sand car loadings.
Metals volume was down 26% as lower crude oil prices suppressed drilling related shipments and the strong US dollar drove increased imports.
Demand for construction products resulted in a 1% volume increase in the third quarter driven by continued demand in road and construction projects in our Texas [Rock] region.
Intermodal revenue was down 11% in the third quarter on a 4% lower volume and a 7% decrease in average revenue per unit.
Domestic intermodal volume was up 1% in the third quarter.
Even though retail sales were down slightly year-over-year we still achieved a best ever third quarter of domestic intermodal volume.
International intermodal volume was down 9% in the quarter as compared to a strong third quarter of 2014 when cargo owners advanced peak season shipments in anticipation of port labor strikes.
With relatively high inventories some international intermodal customers have reduced orders and not all east coast diversions have migrated back to the West Coast.
I will update you on peak season in just a minute.
To wrap up let's take a look at our outlook for the rest of the year.
In Ag products although we have had another strong crop year low commodity prices and abundant global supply created uncertainty in our volume outlook for grain.
In food and refrigerator we expect continued strength in beer but we are facing headwinds in other markets from increased truck availability year-over-year.
We expect automotive sales to remain strong for the rest of the year driving growth in finished vehicles and part shipments.
We continue to expect coal demand to remain below year ago levels due to low natural gas prices higher than average coal inventories and headwinds in the export coal market.
As always a key factor in demand will be weather conditions.
Most chemical markets should remain steady for the remainder of the year with strength expected in LPG.
We continue to expect that weak oil prices reduced production and unfavorable spreads will remain a significant headwind for crude-by-rail shipments.
In industrial products lower crude oil prices will also continue to challenge our minerals and metals volume through the rest of 2015.
While the housing market is slowly strengthening the strong dollar and relatively weak China lumber import market are driving more imports of Canadian lumber to the US.
We continue to expect demand for construction products to remain strong particularly in the southern part of our franchise.
Finally in intermodal we continue to see highway conversions and we expect this to be the seventh consecutive year of record domestic intermodal volumes.
We expect that relatively soft retail sales will cause headwinds in our international intermodal volumes.
Overall we will continue to focus on solid core pricing gains strengthening our customer value proposition and developing new business across our diverse franchise.
With that I'll turn it over to Cameron.
Thank you Eric and good morning.
Starting with our safety performance our year-to-date reportable personal injury rates improved 12% versus 2014 to a record low of 0.92.
While we continue to make significant improvements we wont be satisfied until we reach our goal of 0% incidents getting everyone of our employees home safely at the end of each day.
With respect to rail equipment incidents or derailments our reportable rate increased 17% to 3.56 driven by an increase in yard and industry reportables.
While our reportable rate has taken a step back this year we are confident that our strategy aimed at eliminating human factor incidents and hardening our infrastructure will put us back on a path of long-term improvement.
In public safety our grade crossing incident rate increased slightly versus 2014 to 2.25.
We continue to focus on driving improvement by reinforcing public awareness through channels including public safety campaigns and community partnerships.
Moving onto network performance our operating metrics showed a step function improvement in the third quarter with net work velocity reaching levels not achieved since 2013.
While weather conditions in the quarter were more favorable from an operating standpoint year-over-year volume swings and business mix shifts continue to create a dynamic operating environment.
However the men and women at Union Pacific proved up to the challenge diligently leveraging the strength of our franchise that serve our customers proudly.
In regards to service one of the key metrics we use to track our performance is our service delivery index.
The measure which gauges how well we are meeting overall customer commitments improved 8% versus the third quarter of last year.
We also generated improvement in our local service product to customers with a 95.3% industry [Indiscernible] which measures the delivery or [polling] of a car to or from a customer.
Though we know there is still more work to do and we are working hard everyday to further improve service and reduce cost.
Adjusting resources to current demand continued to be a key focus area for us in the third quarter.
While we noted back in July that we had our locomotive fleet close to being right sized we have made meaningful progress adjusting our TE&amp;Y workforce over the past couple of months.
By the end of September we had around 2700 TE&amp;Y employees either furloughed or in alternative work status compared with 1200 at the end of the second quarter.
In addition to adjusting the lower volumes our improvement in network performance has translated into fewer [Indiscernible] resource demands of our network.
Overall our total TE&amp;Y workforce was down 10% in September versus June.
Around half of this decrease was driven by fewer employees in the training pipeline.
Our active locomotive fleet is down 140 units from the end of the second quarter.
As we currently sit we still have some work left to do when our resources at the end of the third quarter were more closely aligned with current demand.
While resource alignment has been a key focus throughout the year we have not lost sight of other initiatives which also drive productivity.
We ran record train lengths in nearly all major categories remaining agile and adapting our transportation plan to current demand.
We were also able to generate efficiency gains within terminals as productivity initiatives led to record terminal productivity even with 4% decline in the number of cars switched.
Growth capacity investments alongside process improvements have enhanced our ability to generate productivity and have increased the fluid capabilities of our networks.
In addition our progress in adjusting resources to demand has helped enable gains in asset utilization including locomotive productivity.
While the mix headwind from running lower coal volumes largely drove the 1% decline versus the third quarter of 2014 this fleet productivity metric has improved 6% sequentially from the second quarter levels.
To wrap up as we move forward we expect our safety strategy will yield record results on our way to an incident-free environment.
And while we gained significant traction throughout the quarter we continue making operational improvements by leveraging the strengths of our diverse franchise to deliver service products our customers have come to expect.
With our resources now closely in line with demand we will continue our focus on other productivity initiatives to further reduce costs.
Ultimately running a safe reliable and efficient railroad creates value for our customers and increases returns for our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks and good morning.
Let's start with a recap of our third quarter results.
Operating revenue was just under $5.6 billion in the quarter down 10% versus last year.
A decline in volume and lower fuel surcharge revenue along with negative business mix more than offset another quarter of solid core pricing.
Operating expenses totaled just under $3.4 billion decreasing 13% when compared to last year.
Drivers of this expense decline were significantly lower fuel expense along with volume-related reductions and productivity improvements.
The net result was a 5% decrease in operating income to $2.2 billion.
Below the line other income totaled $30 million up from $20 million in 2014.
Interest expense of $157 million was up 9% compared to the previous year driven by increased debt issuance during the last 12 months.
Income tax expense decreased about 7% to $781 million driven primarily by reduced pretax earnings.
Net income decreased 5% versus last year while the outstanding share balance declined 3% as a result of our continued share repurchase activity.
These results combined to produce quarterly earnings of $1.50 per share down 2% versus last year.
Now turning to our top line freight revenue of $5.2 billion was down 10% versus last year.
Volume declined about 6% and fuel surcharge revenue was down $407 million when compared to 2014.
All in we estimate the net impact of lower fuel price was a $0.05 headwind to earnings in the third quarter versus last year and this includes the net impact from both the fuel surcharges and lower diesel fuel costs.
And as we expected on our last earnings call business mix was a negative contributor to freight revenue for the third quarter.
The primary drivers of this mix shift were significant declines in Frac sand steel shipments and bulk grains partially offset by a decline in international intermodal volumes.
Looking ahead business mix will continue to be a headwind to freight revenue for the remainder of the year.
A 3.5% core price increase was a positive contributor to freight revenue in the quarter.
Slide 21 provides more detail on our core pricing trends.
While down slightly from first half levels core pricing continued at levels that are above inflation and reflects the value proposition that we offer in the marketplace.
Of the 3.5% this quarter about 0.5% can be attributed to the benefit of the legacy business that we renewed earlier this year and this includes both the 2015 and 2016 legacy contract renewals.
Moving onto the expense side Slide 22 provides a summary of our compensation and benefits expense which decreased 2% versus 2014.
The decrease was primarily driven by lower volumes and improved labor efficiency as we continued to realign our workforce.
Labor inflation was about 4% for the third quarter driven by agreement wage inflation as well as high pension and other benefit expense.
For the fourth quarter we expect labor inflation to also be about 4%.
Looking at our total workforce levels our employee count was flat when compared to 2014.
And excluding our capital related employees however our workforce level declined about 3% and as Cam just mentioned we made significant TE&amp;Y reductions in the third quarter and we are more closely in line with current demand.
For the fourth quarter we now expect our total force levels to be down 1% or so when compared with the fourth quarter of 2014.
Turning to the next slide fuel expense totaled $484 million down 45% when compared to 2014.
Lower diesel fuel prices along with an 8% decline in gross ton miles drove the decrease in fuel expense for the quarter.
Compared to the third quarter of last year our fuel consumption rate increased 1% driven by negative mix while our average fuel price declined 40% to $1.81 per gallon.
Moving on to the other expense categories.
Purchased services and materials expense decreased 9% to $589 million.
The reduction was primarily driven by lower volume related expense and reduced repair cost associated with our locomotive and car fleet.
Depreciation expense was $507 million up 5% compared to 2014.
We still expect depreciation to increase about 6% for the full year.
Slide 25 summarizes the remaining two expense categories.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $302 million which is down 3% when compared to 2014.
Lower locomotive lease and volume related expenses were the primary drivers.
Other expenses came in at $205 million down 15% versus last year.
Decreased freight equipment and property damage costs along with a reduction in general expenses were the primary drivers.
We now expect other expense to be close to flat on a full year basis excluding any large unusual items.
Turning now to our operating ratio performance the third quarter operating ratio came in at a record 60.3% an improvement of 2 points when compared to the third quarter of 2014.
The operating ratio did benefit about 1.5 points from the net impact of lower fuel prices in the quarter.
Earlier in the year we challenged the organization to safely and efficiently right size our resources and reduce cost and I am pleased with the results that we have been able to achieve.
Ongoing productivity initiatives along with pricing above inflation have been key drivers to improving our overall margins.
Turning now to our cash flow year-to-date cash from operations increased to just over $5.6 billion and we invested around $3.3 billion in cash capital investments through the first three quarters.
Taking a look at the balance sheet we continue our efforts to rebalance our capital structure while maintaining a strong investment grade credit rating.
Our adjusted debt balance grew about $1.6 billion through the first three quarters of this year taking our adjusted debt to cap ratio to 44.5% up from 41.3% at year-end 2014.
Our adjusted debt to EBITDA has increased from 1.4 times at year-end to 1.6 times at September 30 on a trailing twelve-month basis.
This is consistent with our target ratio of 1.5 plus.
Longer term we define that to mean less than two times.
Our profitability and cash generation enable us to continue to fund both our capital program and cash returns to shareholders.
Year-to-date we have repurchased more than 28 million shares.
Almost half of these shares were repurchased in the third quarter.
Year-to-date spending totaled $2.9 billion.
The third quarter alone was up 45% versus last year to over $1.2 billion.
This demonstrates our opportunistic approach in the marketplace and should not be considered a new quarterly run rate.
Adding our dividend payments and our share repurchases we returned $4.3 billion to our shareholders through the first three quarters of 2015.
This represents roughly a 22% increase over 2014.
Why we have made good progress in the third quarter we do expect to see some difficult year-over-year comparisons as we close out 2015.
In the current demand environment continued lower volumes versus last year and an even more challenging business mix will bothnegatively impact fourth quarter results.
And when we compare it to last year fuel prices will also continue to have a negative impact on earnings for the fourth quarter.
Keep in mind we did report a $0.05 positive fuel benefit in the fourth quarter of last year making the fuel comparison more challenging year-over-year.
On the plus side we will continue to focus on achieving solid core pricing gains and building on the progress that we have made with our cost reduction and productivity initiatives.
And when you add it all up we will fall short of last years fourth quarter and full year earnings per share records.
As for next year we are still early in the planning process.
It looks like we may have opportunities in many of our business segments but it also appears that our energy related volumes will continue to be challenged.
Given the uncertain environment we are taking a hard look at our capital spending for next year.
We haven't finalized our plans so it too early to tell how it will relate to our long-term guidance of 16% to 17% of revenue.
But from an absolute dollar perspective we do currently expect that it will be somewhat less than this years $4.2 billion and the plan does include the acquisition of around 200 locomotives as part of a long-term purchase commitment.
Overall we will remain intently focused on running a safe cost efficient and productive operation and we remain committed to providing our customers with excellent service and our shareholders with strong financial returns.
So with that I'll turn it back over to Lance.
Thanks Rob.
As you have heard from the team we have made great progress in meeting this year's challenges.
Our operating metrics have improved to more efficient levels and our resources are now more closely in line with demand.
We will continue our unrelenting focus on operating safely and providing a quality service product for our customers.
We will also continue to grow existing business and to establish new markets.
Even so as Rob said there are some question marks as we finish 2015 and head towards next year.
One uncertainty of course is the extension of the positive train control deadline.
We continue to believe that Congress will do the right thing for our country and our customers and will vote to extend the deadline.
Beyond that energy prices the consumer economy grain markets the strength of the US dollar all will be key to future demand.
Over the long term we are well positioned to safely provide our customers with excellent service while delivering strong value to our shareholders.
So with that let's open up the line for your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of David Vernon with Bernstein Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning and thanks for taking the question.
Rob or Eric could you help us frame the  how challenging coal could be next year from a volume outlook if we were to assume kind of normal demand patterns gas prices kind of staying where they are are we looking at similar declines as we saw this year or something smaller than that? As we said David coal demand really depends on a couple of major factors.
One the competitiveness against natural gas and so what the outlook for natural gas pricing is and certainly the weather and certainly export markets will have an impact on the coal market.
Now at this point if you look at natural gas futures there is no discernible improvement in that natural gas pricing.
So you would assume natural gas will remain very competitive versus coal.
I don't think you would project any improvement of coal market share against natural gas pricing and the weather is always an open factor.
But deterioration would you expect  are there things that about your retirements on your fleet or new builds anywhere in the network that will give you some cause for saying that there is going to be material deterioration assuming the competitiveness remains unchanged? So again the main driver is kind of the competitiveness of coal.
I think you should also look at the current inventories.
The inventories as we mentioned are about 20 days above historical five-year average levels.
They are actually about 30 days above last year third quarter levels.
So you can assume that there would be some desire of utilities to manage those inventories down to a more normal level.
Okay great.
And then maybe just one quick follow-up on the pricing obviously we heard a little bit from one of your interchange partners down in the Central South making some discussions on rates to maybe incentivize some coal burn.
How do you guys think about that are you guys changing your thinking about that given the change in competitiveness right now of coal and natural gas? We don't about specific customer issues or specific commercial issues with customers.
Our strategy has not changed.
We think we have a strong value proposition.
We are going to price to the value proposition to generate a return for our company.
Our strategy has not changed.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Hoexter with Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead with your question.
Great.
Good morning.
Lance and team great job on the operating ratio but now that you are kind of at this 60 level you maybe talk a little bit about what projects you still have that can improve obviously we saw tremendous improvement in the velocity during the quarter is that something that you still see can return to even a couple of year ago levels and there is more room to get that into the 50s and maybe just talk about what projects you have underway that can keep improving that into the next few years? Sure Ken.
Before I turn it over to Cameron for a little more technicolor like we have answered historically there are just almost limitless opportunities for us to continue to improve the business.
What you saw in the quarter and what we have reported for an average quarterly fluidity reflected in velocity has been accelerating through the quarter.
So as we are stepping into the fourth quarter we feel pretty bullish about the ability to continue to make gain.
And the other thing to think aboutfrom a service perspective is while the fluidity of the network at this moment in time looks like it has that any previous period from the standpoint of very good.
There are still opportunities in specific service products that we can continue to make strides on.
So Cameron I will give it to you to talk a little bit more specifically about projects for productivity.
We continue to see opportunities in a number of different areas including variable cost control train length growth terminal productivity see greater fuel efficiency and engineering and mechanically  efficiency initiative to help squeeze out as much productivity as possible.
And we are gaining traction in all of these areas as Rob mentioned.
Great.
I appreciate the insight.
If I could just have a quick follow-up on the [fuel] pricing you mentioned that it decelerated to 3.5% from 4% is that due to more truck competition I dont know Eric if you mentioned it I dont know if their pricing contract's down or what's driving that but maybe you can dwell into that a little bit.
Ken this is Rob.
Let me jump on that.
A couple of points.
One how we calculate price very proud of it.
That is we only count what actually moves.
So we calculate the yield the price.
So the point being volume has an impact clearly on our reported price.
Anything I would say is our attitude.
Our focus has not changed at all in terms of our commitment and understanding to drive price as a key contributor to what we've been able to achieve up to this point and it will be a key contributor as we move forward continuing to get that solid core pricing.
And I wouldnt read too much frankly into the change from the second quarter to third quarter because there is volume issues there is the legacy that we called out.
And there is some round we always round the numbers in terms of what we report here.
So there's not as big of a gap if you will from the second to third as you might otherwise think.
Again our commitment and our focus on pricing is unchanged.
I appreciate the comment and insight.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Ken.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Jason Seidl with Cowen and Company.
Please go ahead with your question.
Now thank you and good morning everyone.
You guys talked a little bit about some of the east coast business not falling back to not all there at least flowing back to the west coast ports.
Do you think it's now permanently based on the east now do you think peoples change their supply their supply chains? This is Eric Jason.
Now we do not.
Frankly as we said last quarter and I think the previous quarter we do think that ultimately the cheapest best fastest supply chain will win and that still is west coast ports.
There are still probably a couple 3% points of share that migrated over to the east coast ports during the port strike that has not migrated back.
We think some of that is just some short term risk management some hedging for the market and retail inventories.
But we fully expect that the shortest quickest most economic supply chain wins in the end and that's the west coast.
Okay.
Now that's great color.
And Rob just a quick question on pricing.
I think you mentioned that about half a point was due to the legacy mix brought forward just had.
So as we certain looking out to 16 should start just basing our assumptions on about 3% core pricing? Nice try.
You can't [blame the guy]? No I get it.
I mean clearly we are saying that you can assume that the legacy is not going to continue but in terms of what happens underneath or beyond legacy we havent given a precise number of guidance other than our commitment to core real core pricing gains above inflation.
And we're not changing our attitude or focus there.
What the number actually ends up being stay tuned.
Sounds good.
Guys I appreciate the time as always.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Wadewitz with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes good morning.
You been I was going to ask a couple of questions on price and I guess is understanding you are saying you're not changing your approach but the market can change.
And so I'm wondering whether you perceive that what we heard about from just you and presumably another competitor taking a rate down on call.
Do you think that the market is changing in terms of more broadly than that or would you say look there are targeted action that you really shouldnt read into broadly.
Because I think you're clear on what you're doing but the market matters as well.
I just want to -- what do we think on whether the market is really going to change or not? Tom this is Lance.
Historically we've always focused on providing an excellent product and then charging for the value that that product represents to our customer base.
We faced markets that are very difficult different headwinds and we faced very robust markets and that philosophy doesn't change.
So we are in a very competitive business.
We compete aggressively for the business that we enjoy.
And at the same time we expect to receive a price that represents the value that we provide and it has to be reinvestable.
All that's real and all that continues to be real as we look into the future.
Is it fair I guess if we look at you versus the market or competitor how you want to characterize that? Over the last several years it's probably you've been a little bit willing to give up some volume I think there were some contract moved away from you in coal in 20 -- I think 2013 and 2014.
And so you say well that's an example of being formant pricing being willing to give up a little volume.
Is it fair to say that then your behavior and that willingness to give up a little volume to keep prices is that way we should view you saying we're continuing with the same thing? Tom I wouldnt change my answer to you at all.
We expect to be paid for the value that we represent and we expect to be able to reinvest in our business.
Right okay.
Thanks for the time.
Our next question is coming from the line of Rob Salmon with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
To get back off of Kens' earlier question on the productivity front.
It was very impressive that you guys were able to pretty much extent train length across the network and environment where volumes were down about 6%.
Can you give us a sense of what sort of siding constraints you guys are have across the network and the opportunity to expand that further? Both of the train side as you saw there equates at about 6000 feet and almost 90% of our network is 7200 feet capable.
So we really dont have any siding constraints and it is up to us to maximize train length and meet customer commitments.
So well we have a lot of opportunity in that category going forward.
Yes.
I would add it's very dependent on the lanes around the network.
We still do have targeted capital investment that's oriented towards siding length extensions and being able to increase maximum train length on a particular route over and above what you see as average train length here.
So there are always or right now there are opportunities for us to continue to invest targeted capital to make that happen but we're a far way away from being at our average train length threatening our current siding length.
Thanks really.
I appreciate that color.
With regard to PTC Lance you had briefly alluded to it in the prepared comments.
Can you give us a sense of what the impact across the network would be if Congress doesn't extend it and any lessons that you learned from the massive uptick in volume we saw on 2014 that you could deploy.
Because to me reading the announcement the press release you guys had put out on the topic it would impact a substantial amount of the network.
Yes.
So Rob what we've announced well we said that we would do is there is not an extension.
And again I'm very optimistic that Congress will be prudent and well has an extension before we have to take any action.
But what we've said is around Thanksgiving in order to remove TIH from our railroad we would have to start imposing an embargo.
And that would be impactful.
That means we'd have to stop allowing interchange product onto us of those commodities as well as start working with customers try to figure out a way for them to ship it an alternative lines.
Also we said as we approached the end of the year we would start working with our Amtrak as well as the commuter agencies that we host to stop passenger traffic.
Both of them would be very bad for the U.S.
economy and for commuters.
The TIH includes commodities like chlorine that's used to clean drinking water.
It includes products that go into fertilizer and other manufacturing processes.
So that would all have an impact on the U.S.
economy.
And then you can imagine in a place like Chicago if the commuter lines were to stop running January 1 what commutes would be like for the 300 000 people a day that rely on those commuter lines.
Thanks so much for the time.
Our next question is from the line of Tom Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning guys.
Nice quarter.
With regard to the cost side obviously we're seeing them come down year-and-year but also importantly sequentially.
I'm trying to get a sense of like the pace of declines we should be anticipating for the -- the fourth quarter? Do you think the run rate we've seen in Q3 is it a reasonable Q-on-Q? Rob.
Yes.
Tom.
I wouldn't take the run rate because we're satisfied that we make great progress but that was a pretty steep successful decline from the second quarter which we're very proud of.
And all I would say to you is we are going to control the things that we can control and as Cam has mentioned we got continuing opportunities while we make great progress right sizing and realigning the organization; we are not done yet.
We're going to continue to take initiatives to squeeze that out and be as effective as we possibly can.
So the run rate probably will be different but the success of our -- continue to be realigned and look for every opportunities we can to further that productivity initiative will continue.
Okay that's helpful thank you.
And then -- hearing.
And that chuck is our increasingly competitive with the rails.
And there is the common suggesting with pricing down for the TL that are potentially conceiving less share.
Obviously that's more of a certainly a remote open.
But I'm just wondering with regard to the rest of your book of business how much could you sort of size up would be potentially at risk of diversion to trucking.
I mean my sense to that be relatively limited but I just would love to hear your thoughts on that.
Yes.
I think if you look at what's going on currently in the trucking environment the lower fuel cost is allowing trucks to be more competitive vis-a-vis rail just by virtue of that fact.
Long term trucks still have the same systemic long term issue that they've always had in terms of driver shortages some of the productivity headwinds that they have with some of the CSA regulations the road congestion etcetera.
So we are still very confident of our ability to drive truck conversions which we demonstrated even in the third quarter in earning a model business.
Certainly trucks are great competitor and there is some competitive impact that we always [indiscernible] and effort.
We are still positive about the position that we are in as a rail and driving conversions from truck to rail.
And case and point you grew domestic intermodal in the third quarter by 1%.
Right.
Outside of intermodal is it much of a threat or something we should be thinking about? Trucks are always a competitor.
We feel very good about our value proposition and our ability to compete.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Group with Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
So Rob why dont you just follow-up your comment about head count in the fourth quarter being down about 1%.
Could that imply a slight sequential increase from the third quarter average even though ended the third quarter a lot lower than the average.
I guess I'm just not throughout follow the down 1%.
Are you adding head count back in the fourth quarter? No.
Scott I just got to take you back.
Remember we had previously guided that we thought we would finish the year flattish with 2014 I think was roughly 48 000 number.
What we're saying now given the confidence we have in the progress we've made today is we expect to end the year with the number being down a percent or so.
So I think compared to where we are now it's flattish but a good volume and other initiatives will dictate exactly where that number lands but okay that's the map.
Yes.
Our job going forward Scott is -- Cameron continued stay focused on getting the housing order from an operating craft head count.
We are also in the process of getting our housing order on a non-agreement perspective.
Right we talked about that in an announcement late in the third quarter.
And we've got an opportunity in capital head count particularly in light of Rob's discussion that capital is likely to be down next year.
As we exit this year we got an opportunity to make adjustments there.
Okay.
And then Rob you said a couple of times I think 4% labor inflation.
What does next year look like? We haven't finished our planning first next year Scott on a number of initiatives.
But I think it's safe to say that the labor inflation will be lower than it was this year.
Remember this year we had the double wage we had other issues that push the labor inflation full year up closer to that we had 5% to 6% in the first half of the year.
So I think it's competent we're competent says it's going to be lower than that.
Exactly where that number lands at this point in time again stay tuned.
Okay great.
And just last just a quick thing on the CapEx.
Is your comment that it's going to come down but we may not be able to get it down all the way to 16% of revenue or a lots on table we could get it even lower than 16% we just don't know.
Yes.
What I'm saying there is the absolute number we would expect to come down but it may not be in that 16 to 17 guidance range yet because remember this year because of the fall-off in the revenue driven largely by the fall-off in the fuel surcharge revenue.
And as you know and others know we don't set our capital plan based on revenue.
It's just the kind of guiding marker that we provide to you.
So it's possible that we'll quite make it all the way down to that 16 to 17 depending on how the revenue number looks as we work through our planning process and that's what I am suggesting.
Okay great.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Allison Landry with Credit Suisse group.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
So I know there has been a lot of questions on price but thinking about core prices of inflation I was wondering if you could give us the sense of what overall rail inflation is currently running at? Yes.
Allison this Rob.
I mean this year overall inflation again largely driven by that discussion I just had with the labor line is probably in the above three'ish so maybe slightly higher than three full year this year.
Again Allison as you know we don't set again that's another marker similar to my discussion on capital.
We don't set our pricing based on any one particular period inflation expectation.
That's just a marker that we expect to continue to achieve above that can be lumpy from one quarter to the next or one period to the next.
But to answer your question inflation overall was three-plus'ish this year.
Okay that's helpful.
And then thinking about intermodal how much of the decline in the segment stems from your main competitor taking some share back as its network recovers and do you expect a further bleed in the fourth quarter given that the end has opened the northern region and added some new expedited intermodal service from Chicago to the PNW? Yes.
So Allison as we mentioned the decline in our intermodal space was really in the international and the mobile space.
And there is really a number of different dynamics that are going on in that.
One is not to complete remigration if you will from east coast to west coast so that that is progressing.
One is as you know in the liner steam ship business there is a number of different dynamics going on there with the different alliances and different entities deciding what lanes they're going to put their ships in.
And certainly kind of the suggested softness in China and other parts of the Asian and them all having the impact on that.
So those are really the drivers in terms of our domestic intermodal franchise.
As we mentioned we grew.
This will be the seventh consecutive year of record of volumes.
We feel great about our franchise the position of our franchise and the strength of our franchise.
Okay.
So just to be clear on your answer BN has not taken any of the share back that you may have gained last year or that's just not a significant factor? So as we talked at earlier earnings releases we did have I think Rob said a percent to 2% share benefit last year from business with the difficulties at our competitors we fully expected that to migrate back and elsewhere in a couple of areas those were intermodal those were in grain those were in coal and we have NRC and those migrate back and backwards aligned with our expectations.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Justin Long with Stephens.
Please go proceed with your question.
Thanks and good morning.
Good morning.
Maybe just a follow up on intermodal again.
I know right now you're facing headwind from tough international comps there is uncertainty in the retail space.
So I was just wondering bigger picture when do you feel this business can get back to more of a GDP or a GDP plus growth environment versus the declines we've seen year-to-date? Eric.
Let me take a stab at that.
The longer term we feel very strong very bullish on the intermodal product in general that in the long run is going to be driven in large part by U.S.
consumers and consuming both international product as well as domestic product.
It's also predicated on our ability to have a service product that can penetrate against a truck.
And all of those secular dynamics are set up positively for the long run.
In terms of dislocations that are happening in the short term it's hard to time things out.
It is very dependent on what happens in the U.S.
economy what the jobs pictures look like what the earning picture for consumers look like what the U.S.
dollar is doing.
Adds then to all that we're focused on controlling what we can control which is an excellent service product.
We got the best franchise from a domestic and international intermodal perspective in the U.S.
and that will serve us well over the long run.
Okay great.
And maybe then just follow-up on that.
Looking at your intermodal business today I know it varies by lane but what's the average discount for intermodal versus truck in your network today.
And longer term where do you think that percentage could go without causing a significant slowdown in intermodal volume growth? Yes.
We've said historically a 15% to 20% as a rough we look on would be part of our core strategy of course to minimize that as we increase our value proposition.
Okay great.
I will leave it to that.
Thanks for the time.
Yes thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Alex Saraci with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your questions.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
So you guys have obviously made a lot of progress on aligning the resources in light of the softer volumes.
And I know the volume outlook is uncertain in a lot of areas right now and it's tough to actually point to where and what might drive an acceleration.
But should volumes actually start beginning to surprise to the upside in 2016 for whatever reason? How do we think about your ability to kind of leverage the resources you have right now and do you feel like there is a lot of operating leverage in the business in where your resources are currently or would you anticipate you have to kind of add back pretty aggressively.
I know it's kind of depends on what the volumes actually translate but how do we just sort of think about the operating leverage intermodal if volumes actually do surprise the upside? Alex we would welcome nothing more than a surprise on the upside in terms of volume next year.
And we are well positioned to be able to absorb that into the existing network.
Cameron has got adequate locomotives and crews ready all around the network to be able to handle an uptick.
The fluidity in the network would be able to absorb it rapidly.
He and the operating team have done a great job in terms of getting the terminal and yard productivity up and we will be able to bring in cars readily into that environment and handle it fluidly.
And between Eric and Cameron and the rest of the team they've done a stupendous job on stabilizing our train plan and making sure that it's robust enough to be able to handle some incremental growth.
So that would have significant leverage for us and we'd welcome it.
Okay that makes sense.
And then just my second question here on you suggested that there are some headwinds in the fourth quarter and that earnings per share would probably be down on a year-over-year basis.
Can we kind of can you help us think directionally relative to the kind of 2% decline you saw in the third quarter? Can we expect another similar low single digit decline in the fourth quarter or probably a bit of a worse year-over-year move there given some of the puts and takes? Alex this is Rob.
What I am calling out there I mean we'll see how the world actually plays out in terms of volume.
But as we look at this point we're not giving precise earnings guidance.
It does look like we're going to have a bigger headwind in the fourth quarter on mix year-over-year and the reason for that is last year's mix actually was quite favorable.
And if you look at the business we were running sand fairly strong coal was relatively strong Ag was a pretty positive mix player.
And those are things that we just don't see repeating in the fourth quarter.
In addition as I called out we see a headwind year-over-year in fuel because last year's fourth quarter we got the benefit of about a nickel of the timing of fuel the fourth quarter last year which we don't see that reporting repeating again this year.
So I am calling out that year-over-year it does look to us like the fourth quarter does have some bigger challenges than frankly the third quarter did.
Okay that makes sense.
Thanks very much for the time.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Wetherbee with Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey thanks good morning.
I want to talk a little bit about the coal network and the outlook for next year.
Obviously still some challenges particularly market share relative to natural gas.
When you think about the network one of your eastern competitors has started to make some changes in terms of the network that's a little bit more structural in nature.
I guess I'm just curious from your perspective how you think about that as you look out to 2016 and maybe beyond given the coal outlook.
Are there things that need to be done there or things you could do to potentially improve that the value proposition there? Chris before I hand it over to Cameron for a little more technic color the thing to note about our coal network is it's largely run on a shared network.
So we have made fundamental adjustments in resources that reflect coal being down.
You see that in our adjustment to [T&amp;Y] craft the locomotives it's also embedded in some of the cars that we've stored.
And we're constantly looking at our assets as they are currently deployed to make sure they fit the demand profile for commodity like coal.
Cameron? You are exactly right Lance.
And our coal network is truly built out.
So for us it's really more of how we manage the tangible assets around locomotives and crews and we'll continue to do that.
Having said that we'll continue to study the assets around our coal network and react appropriately.
Okay that's helpful color I appreciate it.
And then Rob just coming back to you on the buyback just for a second.
Obviously you talked about it not being a run rate in the third quarter and that makes complete sense to me I guess.
If you could help us maybe think about how you might be opportunistic going forward I guess I just want to get maybe a rough sense of maybe how you view that proposition as you think about this quarter and next is in terms of the buyback and the run rate we should be expecting? Yes.
I mean Chris I mean you probably could.
Right my answer here and everyone would say I mean we're not giving precise guidance because in terms of what we're in buyback.
Because if we don't do that I mean we certainly value and understand the value of a continued buyback program.
And we kind of walked our talk there.
And as we've always said we will be opportunistic in the marketplace based on factors like the price of the stock.
So all those are factors in terms of how it will look as we play out into the next several quarters.
We will continue to take the same mindset if you will in terms of how we approach the opportunity and approach how many shares we actually do buyback.
Okay that makes sense.
Thanks very much guys I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Bascome Majors with Susquehanna.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes good morning guys.
I want to ask another one on the coal here.
How much of the mid team's volume decline that you're tracking towards for this year? Would you attribute to the year-over-year decline in natural gas prices? Bascome this is Eric.
It varies.
I would say the vast majority of the decline is in some way or the other attributable to natural gas prices.
As you know they are different high sell regions that we operate in and the impact of natural gas is different in those regions.
But I would say vast majority is attributable at the end of the day to the competitiveness of coal with natural gas with one other factor and that's being our export coal market just the worldwide export coal prices that's also a factor.
Understood I appreciate that.
And just to follow-up I know there is a lot of significant moving parts here but say natural gas prices are flat next year so you don't have that magnitude of a year-over-year headwind on that front and winter is normal.
Just roughly speaking what kind of 2016 coal volume outcome are you looking at here? I mean is this the situation where you could be down double-digits again or is kind of mid-single digits more of what you guys are planning for? Hey Bascome as I mentioned earlier one of the other factors that is a factor is the current level of coal inventories that now at the end of the third quarter there are 30 days higher than where they were last year and 20 days higher than the average five year average.
So I would say is their expectation to assume utilities would work those down not only maybe even to the averages or below the averages but they're trying to be in inventory management mode.
Understood.
I appreciate the time this morning.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brandon Oglenski with Barclays.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes good morning everyone and congrats on the good quarter here.
I know cutting budget can be pretty difficult.
So Lance by my calculation has been about 12 minutes since you got a question on pricing.
So I'm going to come back to it because I honestly think that's probably the biggest concern for your shareholders right now.
But I just want to ask a more general question about the industry right now because it's kind of two parts here.
If you look across the industrial landscape we are definitely seeing deflationary pressure for a lot of your companies.
Energy CapEx is likely to be down again next year and obviously commodity prices are a lot lower.
So it's just less value to extract from that supply chain when you think about it holistically.
But then secondly I mean the industry obviously has an issue here at PTC we're late relative to while that was probably poorly written but none the less in this environment where your customers are facing a lot challenges and we do have regulatory issues how do we balance the reinvestment to service and the price equation such that we try to keep all the constituents happy? That's an excellent question Brandon; one that we are constantly working on.
Our primary focus first and foremost is a robust reliable excellent service product and in that context it's making that service product better than the alternatives.
That puts us in a position to be able to secure a price premium.
And that represents the value of that service product.
So long as we're in that position then we can handle the rest of the pressure points appropriately.
And when it comes to a regulation our best defense in a regulatory environment is happy customers and customers that are getting an excellent service product.
That won't stop the conflict around the pricing discussions that we have it won't stop regulators from wanting to find ways to regulate us.
But it will stop some of the pressure and that's our biggest defense when we focus on those.
I appreciate that.
And is there risk here though that if we face further declines which it feels like we are in the fourth quarter that this whole process just takes a little bit slower pace in terms of where our margin improvement return improvement just understanding that we have a lot of other pressures across the industrial landscape? We are keenly focused on making sure we generate a really attractive return on our investing capital.
Embedded in that is trying to make sure we continue to improve our margins.
I think we've outlined today that there are ample opportunities to continue to make that happen.
One of them is price but it's only one of the mechanisms and that's what we're focused on.
I appreciate it.
Our next question's from the line of Cherilyn Radbourne with TD Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks very much and good morning.
So you cited a high retail inventory levels the volume impediment for the last couple of quarters and I'm just curious how far along you think we are in drawing down those inventories and putting the inventory correction behind us? Yes.
We've actually only mentioned it this quarter and little bit last quarter.
So it really depends on the consumer.
Consumer confidence does appear to be strong it does appear to be a trend where consumers are paying down debt and spending on non-product things like data internet healthcare services etcetera.
I do think if you talk to a lot of the BCO's and the retailers they do have an expectation that with consumer confidence remaining strong there should be a pickup during the holiday season of sales but time will determine whether or not that happens.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just a very quick one on cost.
You called out $50 million of inefficiencies last quarter which is down from a $100 million in the first quarter.
And wondering what fell in the third quarter if anything? Cherilyn this is Rob.
Yes we made good progress on that.
Remember that marker that I was sharing with you in the first and second quarter was against the previous year and we feel very good about as Cam walked through.
We feel very good about the quarter progress we made in better aligning our resources.
Having said that we are not done.
I mean that's last year it wasn't the end of the game.
So we still see opportunities for us to continue to squeeze out productivity initiatives on multiple fronts and we are going to continue to do that.
But in answer to your direct question of compared to what I showed you last quarter on the year-over-year we made very good progress in taking out those inefficiencies that we showed you in the second quarter.
Okay thank you.
That's my two.
Thank you Cherilyn.
Our next question is coming from the line of John Barnes RBC Capital Markets.
Please go with your question.
Hey thank you.
And looking at the couple of the kind of car load outlooks on the positive side that you provided I need the one they are starting to get a little bit of attention is the auto side.
I know right now autos' continues to be very strong but with a soar that is at the historical kind of upper end of the range any concern there that if you see a bit of a correction maybe a normalize level of production.
And especially given the case you mentioned we got retooling going on at a couple of Mexican facilities for GM and Chrysler.
Is there any concern that you start to see maybe some of that growth in the auto sector slack off as we go into the new year? Yes John.
I think that's a great question.
Certainly as you mentioned the SAAR's rate is kind of at a barn burner rate.
The amount of debt associated with auto loans is that.
I think the auto manufacturers would still be pretty bullish because of the features that they think they're providing to the consumer and the average age of automobiles out there.
But the sales rate is at a high number and so that by definition would indicate a little caution and concern.
We dont have too much concern about model changeovers.
There is always model changeovers.
We see that year-in year-out.
We have the benefit of a very broad diverse autos franchise and somewhere theres always that happening.
So we dont see that as too big an issue but certainly the sales rate the amount debt associated with sales you could say something there to watch out for.
Hey John.
Regardless of what SAAR is.
What we really are pleased with is the UP Automotive franchise.
Its outstanding it gives us great access to Mexico products produced in Mexico gives us great access to the ports of products produced over season imported.
And we have an excellent distribution system for finished vehicles on in the Western United States.
We're in a very good place when it comes to the automotive franchise.
Yes no doubt.
Im glad to see you taking advantage of that now.
I just with a couple of the other pressure points out there and although having been kind of one of the bright spots I was getting a little nervous about.
You need time to see a turnaround maybe begin to return to normalization.
Thats just the reason for the question.
One follow-up on the buyback Rob you talked about opportunistic in and Im just kind of curious have you done buybacks overtime? Have you ever gone back in and you done a look at the success of your buyback program as maybe a program done a little bit more ratable per quarter a little bit kind of more consistent in terms of the absolute dollar spend or the absolute shares bought back versus maybe timing it a little bit and being more opportunistic in and if you ever looked at that and doesn't that guide you at all in terms of how you approach your buyback effort? John this probably will shock you but we look at it every day and feel are very comfortable that what we have done to-date works for us.
And we're not changing our approach or that how we look at it but I understand the point of your question but rest assured we look at whats the right way to deal with this and were confident that we are doing the right thing.
Very good.
All right thanks for your time today.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Troy with Nomura.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Thank you.
Just a housekeeping question.
I noticed in your commentary about expenses specifically on comp and benefits.
You did not reference and sent it comping crew.
The other railroad its been about tailwind to a two and a $0.2 to $0.6 per quarter.
Im just trying to think about forward modeling in fourth quarter was there a positive impact that you just didnt call out or is there potentially a larger crew up that wed expect to see in the fourth quarter as we round the quarter in the yearend? Yes Matt this is Rob.
Yes.
I mean I dont see any general -- not calling out that there would be any change in terms of the direction we've been and we havent changed our approach.
And so I dont anticipate of being any big swing in that.
Okay thank you for that.
And then just the second question would be on coal longer term.
Obviously the eastern rails have had to or and will have to continue to live under the threat of environmental regulations which basically coin the question of viability of some of their sourcing basins as well as their customers.
Some of the pushback we get from investors and union specific is hey those guys are kind of have to live through it to the next five years.
Its a long time ahead of us but just wanted to get a sense have you at very high level looked at whether its plants being decommissioned shutting down or new gas-fired turbines coming online with your system.
What potentially just could be vulnerable of your existing business as we look at over let's call it three to five years basis in terms of just sourcings which is just the viability of certain customers? Thanks.
Hey Matt this is Eric.
We look at that in depth continuously as part of our strategic and tactical analysis of our market.
I would say that at a high level coal continues to represent ongoing forward probably and necessary minimum third of electrical generation in the U.S.
short of some new technology I'll call it Star Trek technology just for short hand purposes.
Coal of necessity is going to be a part of the electrical generation of this country for the foreseeable future.
And so I think you could perhaps the coal get to a minimum I'll call it a 30% market share but short of some really new generational technology and I think you'll right now for the foreseeable future thats probably the minimum that will be.
Matt this is Lance.
So I want to provide a little editorial comment as well.
I think United States is blessed with the coal reserves that we are and our ability to generate electricity with coal relatively cleanly and its never been as clean as it is today.
It would be a mistake from the U.S.
economy perspective our competitiveness globally to continue to regulate that out artificially.
I think we have to work on continuous improvement with the emissions from coal fuel generation but it would be a mistake to artificially retard that too much.
Understood.
Thanks for the detail everyone.
The next question is from the line of Cleo Zagrean with Macquarie.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning and thank you for your time.
My first question also on price.
Against very strong yield that fuelled this quarter the relative weakness in automotive and intermodal; could you please comment on the driver there whether it is mainly mix or comparative dynamics and how you expect them to play out into next year? And specifically do you expect domestic intermodal to grow more strongly than international with potentially positive impact on price? Thank you.
Hey Cleo.
The numbers that you see in autos and intermodal from kind of in our yield standpoint is really hindered by the fuel cost surcharge reduction.
That's more than a 100% of that impact.
And then your second question was Mexico versus international on intermodal? No.
Just [indiscernible].
I simply added back an estimated 4% to 5% fuel impact through each of the price boat of ton-mile numbers that we see there and I appreciate that fuel impact would be different across safe categories.
But so maybe then you could comment is that are we missing something by seeing auto and intermodal as weakest in terms of yield but for mile year-on-year? And then my second question was whether domestic should grow faster domestic overall than international next year and that's get some help to pricing overall from mix perspective.
Thank you.
Quick -- Cleo this is Rob.
Let me take that first question.
I would caution you not to just use straight line numbers on it because I think the piece to answer to your question what you're missing I think what you're missing in that analysis is mix.
Mix has an impact within each of the commodity groups in terms of what ends up being reported as average revenue per car on top of each of their individual impacts from the fuel surcharge.
So I would just caution you that there are differences within each commodity group.
Yes.
And as you know we are not going to give guidance in terms of pricing in the future.
We do think that the domestic intermodal market should continue to have strong pricing opportunities in 2000 and as we go into the future.
Okay but faster or slower than international with all the noise we had this year? There is a lot of input a lot of ins and outs that happen.
There are lots of dynamics as you know going on in the international intermodal market that are dynamics being driven by other countries and steam ship liner carriers.
We feel good about our value proposition.
We feel very good about our domestic intermodal franchise and our ability to get price on that.
Okay I appreciate that.
And the second question relates to CapEx.
Can you please remind us of the share that you consider discretionary versus maintenance or require renditions given shifts in the geography of demand and highlight for us those discretionary areas in which it appears prudent with step back this time? Thank you very much.
Cleo we've historically said and I don't think it's changed much to kind of maintain what we've currently got is about $2 billion plus minus number and after that it's things like technology PTC capacity additions commercial facilities new equipment etcetera.
Okay.
And would you be willing to share any as if you're speaking to an engineer what areas would you like to you think you see maybe prudent for as best candidate for retrenching next year? As we are making our capital plans next year we're just constantly evaluating both capital productivity in terms of dollar per unit that we put in the ground or buy and where exactly we're putting it.
So I won't make any commentary on exactly what those plans look like.
Okay thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Ben Hartford with Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks good morning.
Rob a quick question.
I just wanted to use your perspective on the risks to continue to return on asset improvement for the rail line.
You've done a great job doubling it over the past seven years.
We talked a lot about pricing on this call but if you think about just the three simple factors to drive that higher going forward pricing volume growth and service improvement.
In your mind what is the biggest risk or a point of concern from your perspective as it relates to inhibiting continued ROA improvement for the rail lines of those three kind of fundamental inputs? Yes.
I mean you're exactly right Ben.
That the lever says you've heard us talking as you fully understand the levers that draw this from where we once where to where we are today are productivity which is driven by the service.
That sort of has also enabled us to get the right place in the marketplace and volume is always our friend in that calculus.
We are going to control those that we can best control.
So I would say frankly the biggest risk I see at this point is that which we have less control on and that's the economy and what that then gives us in terms of volume to play with.
But as I've said many times and you've heard us say we're not going to use the lack there of volume to slow us down on our initiatives to continue to make progress on that which we can control but that's what we are going to continue to do as we have over the last decade.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
The next question is from the line of Jeff Kauffman with Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Boy you guys are popular.
Congratulations.
Question for Eric kind of broader picture.
As we look at the four areas that are kind of the biggest areas of the volume decline right now so I will throw coal in there metals crude and frac when are you hopeful that you will start to see positive year-to-year comparisons and then I have a follow-on related to that.
I think as we've been saying throughout the call there is uncertainty about the going forward outlook in all of those and I am not sure our prediction will predict us any better than anyone else.
Certainly the strong dollar is impacting our metal steel business our domestic metal steel business oil prices will be a direct factor in terms of the amount of drilling the amount of crude by rail and then the natural gas will be a direct driver in terms of the amount of coal.
So at those points an ability to predict those items and thats right have any better ability than anybody else in the marketplace to do that.
Yes.
I was just curious in your view yes.
All right.
Let me just follow-up on that.
The question was asked earlier you're attacking the variable cost and you are getting a lot more momentum with that.
And I think you mentioned we're not going to do much with the fixed cost in the coal network but as you look at the railroad and how these business units have changed just over the last 12 months where do you think there are opportunities to attack the fixed cost infrastructure beyond just taking down employees and taking down locomotives and assets dedicated to it? Jeff this is Lance.
Yes.
I don't think we said we're not going after fixed cost.
We focused the commentary on some of the variable cost but where we have opportunity to for instance reduce our CapEx or for instance reduce the physical footprint of shops that maintain locomotives or other areas like that.
We're going to take advantage of those as well.
I think what we were trying to impart is that our coal network is not isolated and independent from our overall network.
And so it would be very hard to tease out individual physical assets hard assets that are completely dedicated to coal and isolated on their own.
Okay.
So hence the shared network term.
Lance thank you.
Okay.
Our next question is from the line of Don Brown with Avondale Partners.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning everyone.
Real quick and I kind of just trying to do some back of the envelope math here in -- look at what has been a 40% decline in fuel and as translated into essentially what is a 7.9% headwind in pricing if I look at your reduction and yield realized and the core pricing of 3.5% that you stated.
Would that imply that you would even if you were to go flat from the current levels that at least in the early part of next year you would have to -- he was looking at a 16% decline.
I feel you'd have to achieve it essentially at 3.2% or higher core pricing in order for pricing realized to be flat? Rob? Don you may have stumped me in terms of the actual numbers that you just worked through because I frankly wasnt probably --.
Relatively speaking.
Yes.
But I would just say that mix is clearly a factor in that so just be careful in your analysis to factor that in.
Sure.
And again all I would say about the pricing is we are going to continue to focus on driving value to our customers continue to drive productivity and continue to drive price where we can in the marketplace.
And we know that the underlying value of our service product to customers is a key component to that and it all kind of hangs together there.
So we're going to continue to focus on driving as much as we can on it.
Well so even with the best service available are you going to be able to go to customers whose volumes are down in the high single digit low double-digit range and as far and receive better than 3% pricing? Don this is Lance.
There is never a conversation at our commercial team enters into with the customer on price; that's easy.
It doesn't matter if their volumes' up or the volumes' down.
So clearly Eric and his team into the environment that we are in right now have secured what in the third quarter 3.5% coal price and then in the previous quarters as much as 4% coal price.
Though none of that came easy or was a layout and I expect them to continue that good hard work into next year's securing an appropriate price for the value that we represent to our customers.
Fair enough good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I will turn the floor back over to Mr.
Lance Fritz for closing comments.
Thank you very much Rob.
And thank you all for your questions and interest in Union Pacific this morning.
We look forward to talking with you again in January.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This does conclude todays teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Union Pacific's Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded and the slides for today's presentation are available on Union Pacific's website.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Lance Fritz Chairman President and CEO for Union Pacific.
Thank you Mr.
Fritz.
You may now begin.
Good morning everybody and welcome to Union Pacific's fourth quarter earnings conference call.
With me here today in Omaha are Eric Butler Executive Vice President of Marketing and Sales; Cameron Scott our Executive Vice President of Operations; and Rob Knight Chief Financial Officer.
This morning Union Pacific is reporting net income of $1.1 billion for the fourth quarter of 2015.
This equates to $1.31 per share which compares to $1.61 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Another quarter of solid pricing gains were not enough to offset the 9% decrease in total volumes.
Carload volume declined in five of our six commodity groups with coal and industrial products down 22% and 16% respectively.
Automotive continued to be a bright spot for us in the quarter with the volume up 8% versus 2014.
On the cost side we continued to adjust resources throughout the quarter and also made solid progress with our productivity initiatives.
We will hear the team talk about some of the highlights here this morning.
As a result of these efforts we achieved a quarterly operating ratio of 63.2%.
We continue to be laser focused on running a fluid and efficient network while safely providing value added service to our customers and delivering solid returns for our shareholders.
So with that Ill turn it over to Eric.
Thanks Lance and good morning.
In the fourth quarter our volume was down 9% with continued gains in automotive more than offset by declines in the other business groups.
While we generated core pricing gains of 3.5% but it was not enough to offset decreased fuel surcharge and significant mix headwinds as average revenue per car declined 8% in the quarter.
Overall the decline in volume and lower average revenue per car drove a 16% reduction in freight revenue.
Let's take a closer look at each of the six business groups.
Ag products revenue was down 12% on a 5% reduction and a 7% decrease in average revenue per car.
Grain was down 12% in the fourth quarter.
High worldwide production and a strong U.S.
dollar reduced grain exports by 23%.
Solid growth in domestic grain shipments partially offset the export decline.
Grain products decreased 4% for the quarter driven primarily by softer export of soybean meal and DDG [ph] demand.
Ethanol shipments were down 3% driven by lower exports.
These declines more than offset a 14% increase that canola meal shipments due to another strong canola crop.
Food and refrigerator product volumes were down 1% for the quarter as strength in the year was offset by declines in fresh and frozen food shipments.
Automotive revenue was up 1% in the fourth quarter as an 8% increase in volume was largely offset by a 6% reduction in average revenue per car.
Finished vehicle shipments were up 8% this quarter driven by continued strength in consumer demand.
2015 annual sales of the U.S.
were 17.5 million vehicles levels last reached 15 years ago.
This seasonally adjusted annual rate for the fourth quarter was 17.8 million vehicles the fourth highest quarterly sales pace on record.
On the parts side strong vehicle production increases and a continued focus on over the row conversions to over 8% increase in volume.
Chemicals revenue was down 7% for the quarter on a 2% reduction in volume and a 5% decrease in average revenue per car.
Lower crude oil prices and unfavorable price spreads continued to impact our crude oil shipments which were down 42% in the fourth quarter.
Partially offsetting this decline was continued strength in the LPG markets including Propolene Propane and Bueten demand.
Finally petroleum products volume was down 6% primarily due to weaker residual fuel oil shipments as a result of a slowing in Chinas production and export sectors.
Coal revenue declined 31% in the fourth quarter on a 22% volume decline and 11% decrease in average revenue per car.
Southern Powder River Basin tonnage was down 24% in the quarter as mild weather and low natural gas prices dampened coal demand.
Temperatures in the fall was 3.3 degrees warmer than average and set a record for the lower 48 states.
Coal inventory levels are 105 days through December 39 days above normal and 43 days above last December.
Colorado Utah tonnage was down 40% driven again by soft domestic demand and reduced export shipments.
Nationwide electricity generation by coal dropped from 37% market share in the fourth quarter of 2014 to 32% in 2015 as natural gas captured to share loss from coal.
Industrial products revenue was down 23% and a 16% decline in volume and 8% decrease in average revenue per car during the quarter.
Reduced rig counts and shale drilling resulted in a 42% decline in minerals volume primarily driven by a 52% decrease in frac sand car loadings.
Metal shipments were down 27% from softening industrial production reduced drilling activity and a strong U.S.
dollar.
Specialized markets were up 7% in the quarter driven by increased waste shipments.
Intermodal revenue was down 14% in the fourth quarter and a 7% lower volume and an 8% decrease in average revenue per unit.
Full year 2015 domestic intermodal achieved its seventh consecutive year of record volume.
However our fourth quarter results were down slightly as continued highway conversions were offset by the discontinuation of Triple Crown business and sourcing shifts.
International intermodal volume was down 12% in the quarter in a challenging market environment primarily due to market volume headwinds for several of our ocean carrier customers.
Imports in the Trans Pacific strait remained sluggish due to weaker than expected domestic U.S.
retail sales.
Let's move to how we see our business shaping up for 2016.
In Ag products we expect high global grain inventories and the strong U.S.
dollar to have a continued impact on the export environment.
Food and refrigerator should continue to see growth in import beer.
We expect soybean meal to have another strong export year but we will likely fall short of the record level reached in 2015.
Turning to autos we expect low interest rates and gasoline prices to continue to positively impact demand driving both finished vehicles and part shipments.
However we are cautious as the auto sales sustaining these record levels.
We expect the coal market will continue to be dampened by low natural gas prices and high inventory levels.
As always weather conditions will continue to influence demand.
In chemicals we expect most of our markets to remain solid in 2016 with particular strength in LPG markets.
Low crude oil prices and unfavorable spreads will continue to present significant headwinds for crude by rail shipments.
Fertilizer shipments will also be impacted by grain export headwinds.
In industrial products low crude oil prices will also challenge our minerals and metals volumes.
We expect our lumber franchise to grow with demand from the slowly strengthening housing market and demand for construction products in specialized markets should be solid.
In intermodal we anticipate highway conversions will continue to drive domestic intermodal volumes.
However high retail inventories and sluggish retail demand are expected to mute growth in our international intermodal volumes.
Wrapping up while the strong U.S.
dollar low energy prices and sluggish retail sales will continue to drive headwinds and uncertainty in some of our markets we are optimistic in others.
Mexico continues to be an opportunity driven by energy reform and Mexico's autos manufacturing market.
With our growth depending on both the national and global economy we will continue to strengthen our customer value proposition and develop new business opportunities across our diverse franchise.
With that I will turn it over to Cameron.
Thanks Eric and good morning.
Starting with our safety performance of our full year reportable personal injury rate improved 11% versus 2014 to a record low of 0.87.
Successfully finding and addressing risk in the work place is clearly having a positive impact as we achieve annual records on our way to an incident free environment.
With respect to rail equipments incidents or derailments our reportable rate increased 14% to 3.42 driven by an increase in yard and industrial reportables.
While our reportable rate took a step backwards in 2015 we are confident that our strategy aimed at eliminating human factor incidents and hardening our infrastructure will lead to improved results going forward.
In public safety our grade crossing incident rate improved 3% versus 2014 to 2.28.
We continue to focus on reinforcing public awareness through community partnerships and public safety campaigns to drive improvements in the future.
Moving onto network performance after making a step function improvement in our operating metrics during the third quarter we have continued to make solid incremental progress.
As reported to the AAR velocity and terminal dwell improved 13% and 5% respectively when compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
Record fourth quarter velocity of 27 miles per hour was at the best ever at a level of volume handled during the quarter.
In fact the last quarter we ran at this velocity was six years ago when our network was handling 7% fewer car loads.
The strength and resiliency of our network allowed us to mitigate the impact from flooding events in the Eastern portion of our network during late December thereby minimizing service delays to our customers.
But while we have made significant improvement in our metrics we know there is still more work to do as the team continues a relentless approach to further improve service and reduce cost.
While we noted back in October that our resources were more closely in line with demand at that time further declines in volume prompted us to make additional resource adjustments in the fourth quarter.
In addition to adjusting to lower volumes our improvement in network performance has translated into fewer recruits lessening resource demands of our network.
By the end of the year we had around 3 900 TE&amp;Y employees either furloughed or an alternative work status compared with 2 700 at the end of the third quarter.
Overall our total TE&amp;Y workforce was down 18% in the fourth quarter versus the same period in 2014.
Around half of this decrease was driven by fewer employees in the training pipeline.
Our active locomotive fleet was down 13% from the fourth quarter of 2014.
As always we'll continue to adjust our workforce levels and equipment fleet as volume and network performance dictates.
In addition to efficiently rightsizing our resource base we also realized gains on other productivity initiatives such as train length.
While we are unable to overcome the volume decline within intermodal we ran record train lengths in all other major categories.
We were also able to generate efficiency gains within terminals as productivity initiatives led to record terminal productivity even with an 8% decline in the number of cars switched.
In addition to process improvements capital investments have also enhanced our ability to generate productivity and increased the fluid capabilities of our network.
In total we invested $4.3 billion in our 2015 capital program.
For 2016 we are targeting around $3.75 billion pending final approval by our Board of Directors.
More than half of our planned 2016 capital investment is replacement spending to harden our infrastructure replace older assets and to improve the safety and resiliency of the network.
The plan includes 230 locomotives as part of a previous purchase commitment.
This commitment wraps up with the acquisition of an additional 70 units in 2017.
We also plan to invest an additional $375 million in positive train control during 2016.
In summary we finished 2015 on a solid note.
In 2016 we are carrying that momentum forward as we continue to focus on those critical initiatives that would drive future improvement.
Above all this includes safety where we expect once again to yield record results on a way towards zero incidents.
In the face of uncertain volume environment we will continue to adjust our resources to demand while also focusing on other productivity initiatives to further reduce costs.
And where growth opportunities arise we will leverage that growth to the bottom line to increase utilization of existing assets.
As a result we will create value for our customers with an excellent customer experience.
With that I will turn it over to Rob.
Jr</strong> Thanks and good morning.
Let's start with a recap of our fourth quarter results.
Operating revenue was just over $5.2 billion in the quarter down 15% versus last year.
Significantly lower volumes and even more challenging business mix and a negative fuel comparison more than offset solid core pricing gains achieved in the quarter.
Operating expenses totaled just under $3.3 billion decreasing 13% compared to last year.
Significantly lower fuel expense along with volume related reductions and productivity improvements drove the expense reduction.
The net result was a 19% decrease in operating income to $1.9 billion.
Below the line other income totaled $28 million down $43 million versus the previous year primarily driven by 2014's real estate gains.
Interest expense of $164 million was up 12% compared to the previous year driven by increased debt issuance during the year.
Income tax expense decreased 23% to $665 million driven primarily by lower pretax earnings.
Net income decreased 22% versus 2014 while the outstanding share balance declined 4% as a result of our continued share repurchase activity.
These results combined to produce quarterly earnings of $1.31 per share which fell well short of last year's record $1.61 per share.
Now turning to our top line freight revenue of approximately $4.9 billion was down 16% versus last year.
Volume declined 9% and fuel surcharge revenue was down $438 million when compared to 2014.
All in we estimate the net impact of lower fuel price was $0.11 headwind to earnings in the fourth quarter versus last year.
And keep in mind we did report a $0.05 positive fuel benefit in the fourth quarter of 2014.
This includes the net impact from both fuel surcharges and lower diesel fuel costs.
As we expected a challenging business mix did have a negative impact on freight revenue in the fourth quarter.
The primary drivers of this mix shift were significant declines in frac sand steel shipments and bulk grains partially offset by a decline in international intermodal volumes.
A 3.5% core price increase was a positive contributor to freight revenue in the quarter.
Slide 22 provides more detail on our pricing trends.
Pricing continued to be solid throughout 2015 and represents the strong value proposition that we provide our customers in the marketplace.
Of the 3.5% this quarter about 0.5% can be attributed to the benefit of the legacy business that we renewed in 2015.
With the exception of a few smaller contracts in the out years 2015 marks an end to any further legacy re-pricing opportunities.
Moving on to the expense side slide 23 provides a summary of our compensation and benefits expense which decreased 5% versus 2014.
The decrease was primarily driven by lower volumes and improved labor efficiencies.
Labor inflation was around 4% in the fourth quarter driven primarily by agreement wage inflation.
Looking at our total workforce levels our employee headcount declined 7% when compared to 2014.
Reductions in TE&amp;Y training related activities as well as employees associated with capital projects all contributed to the workforce decline.
At this point in time given current volume levels we are being very cautious with our hiring plans for 2016.
On average for the year we would expect overall force levels to be down somewhat depending of course on how volume ultimately plays out for the year.
Labor inflation is expected to come in around 2% for the full year.
This is driven primarily by agreement wage inflation partially offset by lower pension expense.
This is also consistent with our all in inflation expectations in the 2% range for the full year.
Turning to the next slide fuel expense totaled $424 million down 48% when compared to 2014.
Lower diesel fuel prices along with a 14% decline in gross ton miles drove the decrease in fuel expense for the quarter.
Compared to the fourth quarter of last year our fuel consumption rate increased 1% driven by negative mix while our average diesel price declined 39% to $1.61 per gallon.
Moving onto to our other expense categories purchase services and material expense decreased 11% to $589 million.
The reduction was primarily driven by lower volume related expense and reduced repair cost associated with our locomotive and car fleets.
Depreciation expense was $517 million up 6% compared to 2014.
In 2016 depreciation expense is expected to increase slightly compared to last year.
Slide 26 summarizes the remaining two expense categories.
Equipment and other rents expense totaled $305 million which is up 3% compared to 2014.
Lower volumes and improved cycle times were more than offset by a favorable one time item in 2014.
Other expenses came in at $235 million up 3% versus last year.
Higher state and local taxes and increased personal injury expense were partially offset by a reduction in general expenses.
Other expenses for the full year were flat when compared to 2014 consistent with our full year guidance.
For 2016 we expect the other expense line to increase between 5% and 10% excluding any large unusual items.
Turning to our operating ratio performance the fourth quarter operating ratio came in at 63.2% and 1.8 points unfavorable when compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
For the full year I am pleased to report an operating ratio of 63.1 which is 0.4 points improvement from 2014.
Even with the sharp decline in volumes right sizing our resources to current demand ongoing productivity initiatives and solid core pricing have all been key drivers to improving our overall margins.
Slide 28 provides a summary of our 2015 earnings with a full year income statement.
Operating revenue declined about $2.2 billion to $21.8 billion.
Operating income totaled almost $8.1 billion a decrease of 8% compared to 2014.
And net income was just under $4.8 billion while earnings per share were down 5% to $5.49 per share.
Turning now to our cash flow in 2015 cash from operations totaled more than $7.3 billion down slightly when compared to 2014.
After dividends our free cash flow totaled $524 million for the year.
This was down just under $1 billion from 2014 primarily driven by lower earnings along with higher cash capital and dividend payments.
This includes the two dividends that we incurred in the first quarter of 2015 resulting from the timing change in our dividend payments.
As expected the net impact of bonus depreciation on 2015 cash flow was close to neutral as the benefit from 2014 bonus depreciation offset cash tax payments associated with prior years.
Taking a closer look at 2016 we will see the benefit from both 2015 and 2016 bonus depreciation since the legislation was passed just before year end.
We are factoring in the two years worth of benefit in 2016 against payments from prior years the expected net impact from bonus depreciation will be a tailwind of roughly $400 million on this years cash flow.
Slide 30 shows our 2015 capital program of $4.3 billion.
And as Cam just mentioned we are targeting a capital plan in 2016 of about $3.75 billion pending final approval from our Board of Directors in February.
This would be a reduction of over $500 million from last years capital program.
The chart on the right shows the returns on these investments over the last few years.
Return on invested capital was 14.3% in 2015 down 1.9 points from 2014 driven primarily by lower earnings.
Taking a look at the balance sheet while cash from operations was down slightly year-over-year we increased our balance sheet debt by 24% resulting in an all in adjusted debt balance of about $17.4 billion at year end 2015.
We also finished the year with an adjusted debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.7 which increased from 1.4 at year end 2014.
Longer term we are continuing to target a debt to EBITDA ratio of less than 2 times.
While we did increase our debt levels to reward shareholders we also maintained a strong balance sheet which is a valuable asset particularly in the face of economic and strategic uncertainties.
In 2015 share repurchases exceeded 35 million shares and totaled about $3.5 billion up 7% from 2014.
Over the past five years we have repurchased 15% of our outstanding shares.
Adding our dividend payments and are share repurchases we returned more than $5.8 billion to our shareholders in 2015.
This represents roughly a 20% increase over 2014 continuing our strong commitment to shareholder value.
So thats a recap of our fourth quarter and full year results.
Looking ahead to 2016 we do have some significant hurdles.
Our energy related volumes will continue to be a challenge.
Compared to last year's strong first quarter we expect this year's first quarter coal volumes to decline around 20% or so.
And given the headwind we currently see with coal it is likely that total volumes for the first quarter will be down in the mid single digits.
For the full year we currently expect total volumes to be slightly negative depending on coal and the strength of the overall economy as the year plays out.
Fuel prices will have a negative impact on earnings at least in the first quarter given the $0.08 positive fuel benefit that we reported in the first quarter of 2015.
While it is still early we are preparing ourselves for volume and mix pressures particularly in the first quarter and likely throughout March of 2016.
We are counting on record productivity and solid pricing to drive an improved operating ratio again this year as we work towards our longer term operating ratio target of 60% plus or minus on a full year basis by 2019.
And as always no matter what the environment we remain committed to running a safe efficient productive railroad for our customers while generating strong returns for our shareholders.
So with that I will turn it back over to Lance.
Thanks Rob and as we discussed today this past year was a difficult one in many respects.
But our team did outstanding work in the face of dramatic declines in volumes and shifts in our business mix.
Overall economic conditions uncertainty in the energy markets commodity prices and the strength of U.S.
dollar will continue to have a major impact on our business this year.
However our velocity is at an all-time best for the current level of demand.
The network is fluid and we are driving towards further improvement.
We are well positioned to efficiently serve customers in existing markets as they rebound.
The strength and the diversity of the Union Pacific franchise also will provide tremendous opportunities for new business development as both domestic and global markets evolve.
When combined with our unrelenting focus on safety productivity and service these opportunities will translate into an excellent experience for our customers and strong value for our shareholders in the years ahead.
So with that let's open up the line for your questions.
Hey good morning and thanks for taking the question.
Rob with regard to your comments about the legacy pricing further we saw about half a point in the fourth quarter.
When you re-priced some of the legacy contracts you had pulled forward some from 2016 should we still be considering some sort of incremental benefit in 2016 to the core pricing metric as we look out or should that effectively be zero for next year? Jr</span></strong> Yeah I would say basically effectively zero.
I mean there might be a tad bit of little carryover but I think for your modeling purposes those are pretty much behind us.
Got it.
And then I guess shifting gears Eric to the intermodal segment you had called out some headwinds in the fourth quarter related to Triple Crown and some sourcing ships.
Can you kind of quantify how we should be thinking about that Triple Crown headwind for 2016 or your quad specifically the volume challenge that you guys saw and should those sourcing ships that we saw in the fourth quarter continue to weigh on intermodal load growth for the domestic volumes as we look out? Yeah Rob.
As we indicated we still we always expect our highway conversion strategy which we are firmly focused on to continue to drive growing domestic intermodal volumes.
And so we continue to see growing domestic intermodal volumes despite headwinds from Triple Crown and other things that occur all the time.
We do expect as I called out to see headwinds on the international intermodal side just because of all of what's going on with the trends in simple [ph] trade in the China markets.
But on the domestic intermodal side we continue to see our strategy working which is growing volumes through highway conversions.
Got it appreciate the color.
Yeah good morning everyone and thanks for taking my question.
Lance or Eric I mean can you guys just give us some context here because I have only been covering the industry for about a decade but the volumes seem pretty bad right now.
I mean maybe not quite as bad as 2009 and yet we are still getting jobs growth in the U.S.
So how do you look at the environment right now? Is the U.S.
headed into a broader recession or is this just limited to energy and industrial and other specifics in your business that maybe look worse than the broader economy? Brandon this is Lance.
The impact on all railroad has been acute as you point out in energy in commodities affected by the strong dollar like export grains steel markets and those are not necessarily indicative of a broader U.S.
reality.
I will share with you though there is also questions that we have about U.S.
consumers.
There are indicators that the consumers are healthy like the unemployment rate is at a comfortable 5% level the consumers are buying automobiles as Eric outlined.
But labor participation rate isnt that great and fourth quarter retail sales for goods was not that great.
So I will let Eric give you a little more technicolor.
Yes I am not sure there is much else I would add to that.
I would say the consumer is spending there is consumer confidence household income is going up.
There appear to be a shift between consuming on products or goods spending on services.
There does appear to be that shift so it does some of the changes is impacting our business and the industrial space.
Yes Brandon one last thing early in the year we talked about the impact on energy from low natural gas prices and the effect on coal the effect on crude oil and natural gas exploration to development and we said ultimately that should be a benefit to other industries we serve like plastics manufacturing and consumers.
And we just haven't seen yet the offset the positive offset from the headwinds that weve experienced.
Well I know its difficult for a lot of investors on the line here too.
Well Rob can you talk a little bit about the outlook for an improving operating ratio? What are the big drivers here especially with the uncertainty in volume? Jr</span></strong> Yes the big driver I mean volume obviously is our friend and I guided as you picked up that we expect full year volume to be slightly down.
Wed obviously like to see that improve from there but given that slightly down sort of view of the world and a positive improving operating ratio is our conviction around our ability and our focus on continuing to drive productivity and our ability to continue to provide quality service to our customers enables us to get price in the marketplace.
Okay appreciate it.
Hi there good morning.
Want to touch a little bit on the outlook or stay on the outlook for 2016.
Rob I know you dont give earnings guidance specifically but if you can get sort of slightly down volumes you have an improving OR mix is going to be negative certainly in the first quarter or so of the year I mean how do we think about the other puts and takes that potentially sort of impact that whether you are sort of flat to down or flat to up I am just trying to make sure I understand how much you can control on the expense side to maybe offset some of this negative mix that we are expecting? Jr</span></strong> Chris I mean and the reason that I am not giving earnings guidance is because of all those unknowns.
We are confident we can control what we can control which again is the productivity quality of service continue to drive positive price but there is so much uncertainty at this point in time in terms of what the absolute volumes will be and what the mix of those volumes will play out.
So thats why we are not at a position right now to give earnings guidance but I assure you we are focused on driving improvement on every aspect that we can and we certainly would like to see as positive results as we can drive.
Okay and then maybe just to follow up on that in terms of the expense side what you can control you talked about headcount a little bit in the outlook and I think you said it would be down a bit I guess you are entering the year with it down little bit more than that and kind of trying to chase that volume number down I mean how do we think about sort of headcount for the full year in a little bit more detail? Jr</span></strong> I mean Chris as weve said all along and Ill say it here again for 2016 is that volume will drive what our headcount ultimately is although there is still productivity.
So volumes are slightly down.
I would expect that we would have down headcount driven by volume and layering on our expectation of driving further productivity.
So it will flow with directionally with what volume is but we are very focused getting to see what the mix actually plays out very focused on driving productivity in those numbers and being as efficient as we can.
Chris we outlined for you the expectations for volumes in the first quarter in a few specific areas.
I would say we are in a much better posture entering 2016 from a realizing productivity in a headcount perspective getting the resources right for the volumes than we were entering 2015.
We are just in a very different place.
Thats helpful thanks for the time appreciate it? Good morning thanks.
So following up on the previous question how much of a volume decline do you think that you can handle while still generating positive earnings growth.
You did mentioned expectations for a slight decline but if car load has tracked down 5% 6% 7% is that sort of where you are thinking about the tipping point? Jr</span></strong> Allison this is Rob.
I mean I cant give you and not giving guidance on the earnings.
So I mean I get the point of your question but really the driver will be what's the mix what volumes actually move and etc.
But I can just assure you that there is obviously a tipping point at some point if that were to go so negative it would flip the other -- flip negative.
But we are going to squeeze out productivity and continue to drive price where we can and so I cant give you a direct answer as to where that tipping point is.
But we are focused on regardless of what the volume is on controlling what we can and driving positive OR and earnings.
Understood thanks.
And then my second question would be what your expectations for overall cost inflation are for 2016? Thank you.
Jr</span></strong> Yeah as I said Allison overall inflation assumptions for us in 2016 are around 2%.
Okay excellent.
Thank you.
Jr</span></strong> Yeah.
Hey thanks good morning guys.
Good morning Scott.
Rob just wanted to clarify a few things that you said.
In terms of headcount down slightly or something like that I mean we're going to be starting the year down 9% or so year-over-year.
Are we talking about down slightly from kind of where you are ending the year at that 44 45 level? Jr</span></strong> Basically that guidance or that view of the world Scott that where I say its slightly down is a year-over-year assumption at this point in time.
And again full year.
And again what will drive that is what the ultimate volumes end up being.
Scott just a little point of detail.
At the tail end of many years there is a lot of moving parts that affect headcount the absolute headcount number.
But the average is the one thats most useful.
Are you thinking about adding headcount from where you are right now because if you take where you are right now I mean it should imply pretty meaningful drop in headcount? We are going to continue to match headcount to whatever the volume situation is.
The other thing to note is headcount comes in and out on capital programs as for instance in the winter time we start shutting down capital spend because of the weather and spooling it backup in the spring.
There is just a lot of moving parts quarter-to-quarter sequentially.
Okay.
In terms of pricing wanted to ask so I think BN has talked about giving up some price to incent some coal demand.
Are you guys doing anything similar like that and maybe if you can talk overall on pricing it sounds like you expect solid pricing in 2016.
Is it reasonable to expect some kind of deceleration in the pricing environment just given what the volumes are doing or can we -- do you think we can hold steady around this 3% range actual legacy? Hey Scott this is Eric.
So I cannot speak to what the BN does with pricing strategy.
They do their own independent strategy and I cannot speak to what they do.
We continue to hold on our strategy of pricings for our value.
We are driving a value proposition that we want to be an industry superior value proposition and we are going to price accordingly for that.
We do think that there are places in the market and the economy that are growing and we think that those provide value for us to continue to price according to our long held strategy.
Okay alright.
Thank you guys.
Good morning and thanks for taking the questions.
Rob I know you didnt give explicit earnings guidance but in the past two years you had noted in your slide deck record earnings and that was note -- that kind of was notably absent this time around.
So I just want to confirm that we should interpret the lack of that expectation for record earnings to be what it is that you wont at this point you do not expect to achieve at least the $5.75 in earnings per share that you achieved in 2014 which was the last record.
I just want to confirm you are essentially expecting this year to be below that figure? Jr</span></strong> That is correct.
Now nothing would please us more than to see the economy turn and things are going to go favorable.
So we are going to fight like heck to do the best we can.
But yes you are correct.
At this point in time we do not see record earnings.
Okay thats helpful.
And then just to touch back on the pricing discussion you noted that you expect inflation to be 2% in 2016.
In the past you've always kind of suggested nominal pricing above inflation.
Is that still your expectation for 2016 to achieve pricing above that 2% inflation level? Jr</span></strong> Yes.
But as you know we dont set our prices based on what current year inflation numbers are.
And as has been pointed out weve discussed here today we priced the market.
Every market is a little bit different.
We clearly dont have the benefit of the calling half point legacy renewal that wed enjoyed in 2016 but having said all of that yes we are still focused on pricing above inflation.
Okay thats helpful.
Thanks very much for the time.
Yes good morning.
I wanted to ask you a little bit about the volume side.
So you commented on first quarter and I think Eric in his slide with the 2016 outlook gave us the view by segment.
If I look at that view by a segment it is either kind of plus and minus or I guess for coal it is minus minus.
But it seems like by segment it is pretty negative but on a full year basis you are saying it is down only slightly.
So I assume slightly is not down 3 or 4 its maybe down 1 or 2.
What -- how do you kind of bridge those two together? Is it just the function of the comps get so much easier in second quarter or are you expecting kind of adjusted for seasonality improvement in demand later in the year or how do you put those two together because it kind of by segment looked a little more negative than the comment about a slight decline on a full year basis? Jr</span></strong> Let me just start off and Eric may want to comment further and to maybe more specific but this is Rob.
I would just say that Tom to your point we clearly are highlighting and as you know that the comps particularly the first quarter is particularly challenging and thats why we are calling out the down volume in the first quarter in coal clearly you know 20% or so range.
So the comps do change throughout the year but our view of the world right now is that the energy environment which impacts our coal impacts our shale impacts our metals.
It supports the shale activity on top of the continuing strong dollar.
Those are going to continue to be hurdles and pressures for us.
But the comps do change as the year plays out and I think thats what's driving sort of maybe the math that you are wrestling with.
Eric you got anything else to add? No thats it.
So you would say it is more comps than anticipation of improved market later in the year? Jr</span></strong> Id say thats a bigger driver.
Okay I appreciate that.
What about mix? If I look at your slides in third quarter mix I think it was a 1% year-over-year headwind and that got a lot more challenging in fourth quarter which I think was the big thing we missed in our assumptions for fourth quarter with that 4% mix headwind.
I know its a tough one to forecast but do you think mix in 2016 is more like the 4% or more like 1% thats a pretty material consideration? Jr</span></strong> Tom this is Rob again.
I would say again as you know we dont and is very difficult in fact frankly impossible to precisely predict exactly what mix is going to be.
But I would say just sort of directionally if you look at the full year mix impact in 2015 it was about 1.5 negative and you are right the fourth quarter was particularly bad at down at 4.
We do expect to still see mix headwinds as 2016 plays out.
I dont anticipate that it would be for the full year as bad as we saw in the fourth quarter.
We do have a comp challenge in the first quarter but as the year plays out things should get easier and while mix will be headwinds for the full year it should sort of get better than what we saw in the first quarter well see in the first quarter and what we saw in the fourth quarter of last year.
Recall Tom first quarter of 2015 we grew frac sand shipments coal was still relatively healthy grain was healthier than what we saw as the year progressed into later quarters.
So markets have really changed pretty dramatically from the first quarter of 2015.
So the mix comps might be similar to the volume comps that they get to be used your beyond first quarter.
Maybe what Jr</span></strong> Well see.
Okay thank you for the time.
I appreciate it.
Thank you hey Lance Rob Eric Cameron how is everyone doing.
Jason.
I want to go back on the pricing side and focus on intermodal and any of the truck competitive merchandise traffic that you are hauling.
Clearly right now it seems that there is excess trucking capacity and all the data points at least we track are pointing to truck pricing going down both contractually and on the spot basis how should we look at your ability to not only price but grow the intermodal business ex under the headwinds that we talked about with Triple Crown as we move throughout 2016? Yes this Eric Jason.
So a big reason as you know for kind of the shrinkage in truck pricing is fuel is coming down which is a major cause.
So our customers are also seeing a cost reduction benefit as fuel goes down because of the fuel surcharge going down.
So they are seeing that natural cost reduction benefit.
So the gap if you will between the value proposition for intermodal rail service versus truck I think that that gap is still there in terms of intermodal providing a value proposition to manufacturers.
We have talked in the past about just by laws of physics steel wheel on steel rail is a lower costing rubber tire on asphalt or concrete.
So there still is a value proposition there that we think gives us a leverage to continue to drive highway conversions which we demonstrated in 2015 and we are going to continue to focus on in 2016.
And Eric your team continually works with trucking companies themselves in terms of helping them with their cost structures and they look at intermodal conversions as an opportunity to modify their own cost structures as they compete in that marketplace and those opportunities continue as well.
Okay now that is good color.
As I look on the Ag side it seemed like there was a couple of puts and takes but net net for the year would you guys say you were positive or slightly negative for Ag? Eric.
I am not sure I understand the question.
In terms of your outlook for 2016? Oh we dont give volume guidance for 2016.
I think if you look at the Ag markets overall I think the Ag producers are expecting pretty good yields for 2016 of course depending on weather and number of acres planned in all of that.
Maybe not record levels but pretty good levels.
I think a large factor will depend on worldwide Ag production strong dollar and how competitive U.S.
Ag is.
In worldwide market there is a lot of corn a lot of wheat in storage right now.
And presumably as U.S.
Ag becomes more competitive pricing wise in worldwide markets that's got to move and when that does move presumably we as a transportation provider will have a benefit in moving in.
Okay gentlemen thank you for the timing as always.
Great good morning.
Lance I want to revisit one of the earlier questions in terms of looking back in market downturns and looking at the volumes how do you figure out how to stay ahead of that in terms of furloughing employees and cutting -- dropping locomotives in terms of them being not -- I guess not overdoing it so you can catch that rebound.
How have you acted differently this time versus whether it was at the end of 2014 and beginning of 2015 when we ramped up maybe too much and then versus what you saw in 2008-2009 maybe can you give us a little feedback in terms of how you prepped for that.
Sure Ken.
We have been clear historically about time lags in decisions that are just the nature of our business in terms of hiring somebody to operate a train.
That is about a six month process.
So we have to by nature when we are planning crews look out 6 12 18 months.
And when we are talking about capital planning or locomotive acquisitions those lead times get longer.
So it all begins with our business planning process and making sure that we have tight connectivity between what Eric and the commercial team are seeing and then how we are boiling that into a transportation plan and the resources necessary to run it.
Every time we see a significant shift in volume whether it is significant growth or significant shrink we try to learn from that situation.
As we are going into 2016 we think our business planning process is tighter we think our connectivity between what Eric sees in the marketplace and secondary and tertiary indicators of demand more of that is being absorbed into our estimating process.
And so I shouldnt miss the opportunity to talk about also doing a better job of shrinking some of the timelines let's say in terms of hiring and bringing a crew on board or acquiring equipment.
We are also better candidly at when we have to store equipments storing it quickly and efficiently and we are also better at trying to find the right mix of the right employee base where they are located and training them for alternative jobs.
So we are just getting a little better in all those ways and that adds up I think into a better posture overall.
And to clarify that you dont see that as rounding into like of 2008-2009 not that deep of a recession but into I guess so far what you seen doesnt seem a recession environment to you? Ken it is hard for me to speak and predict on whether the economy is going into a recession.
Certainly our volume drop off as the 2015 year progressed quarter to quarter and as we are entering 2016 is dramatic and it is dramatic in historical reference but it is nothing it is not approaching what we experienced in 2008 to 2009.
I will tell again a 6% decrease year-over-year and a quarterly 6% 7% 8% 9% decrease year-over-year is pretty dramatic volume change.
Great if I could do a follow up just a quickly comment I guess yesterday or a couple of days ago one of the other rails noted your quotes on M&amp;A and said that I guess prior you had talked about how it impacted Union Pacific and you are opposed to that.
Maybe can you clarify your comments -- on your thoughts on industry M&amp;A why it would or would not matter to you given your operating in your own region and does it -- in industry change impact Union Pacific? Ken we do not support mergers or consolidation in the current environment.
We think that the regulatory outcomes the regulatory impact would be substantial.
The Service Transportation Board has been clear.
That in the next merger that they consider it has to enhance competition not just maintain it.
It has to improve operations for customers and they also have to consider downstream impacts whether one merger triggers a string of consolidations.
Weve shared with you we are focused on safety we are focused on efficiency we are focused on an excellent customer experience.
We dont think a merger enhances those efforts.
Matter of fact we think it would have a negative impact on service and be a headwind disincentive to capital investment.
Thanks for the time and thought appreciate it.
Yes hi good morning thanks for taking the question.
So obviously one area of growth year-over-year looks like it is going to continue into next year but how much of that is attributable to Mexico and what type of impact do you see when it comes to we are seeing it is from reported first half be tooling and change over staff of the border and do you think this should really have an impact on your length of hall or mix of business in that vertical? Brian before I hand it over to Eric I just want to say we are very bullish on Mexico in general in the long term.
Its a vibrant economy it has got a vibrant middle class and our access to the six primary rail gateways to and from Mexico give us a real great opportunity to participate in that economy.
Eric? Brian historically Mexico produced about 1.7 million vehicles.
I think full year 2015 the number is probably closer to about 2.9 million vehicles.
Ill call it 17.5 that were sold with all of the plant expansions and new plants I think it is on its way to 4 million or 4.5 million in the next call it year and a half to two years.
As it has been said we have a great franchise for Mexico and we think that that will be a strong part of our business portfolio going into the future.
As always the issue is when the sales drive total volume and so our total volume will be aligned with whatever sales are.
And our strategy is to have a franchise to move it wherever it is manufactured.
Okay then just quick on that was it about 60% of your auto comes from -- is attributable to Mexico I am remembering correctly? Historically we've said that yes.
And thats about what it was yes.
Okay.
And then just one another quick one on train lengths.
I think in the last call you mentioned you have about 90% about 70 000 foot capable I guess in terms of sidings.
Third quarter is around 6000 foot average train lengths.
So include you are highlighting some of the best ever lengths in three of the five areas.
How much further and I guess how much faster do you think you can take that up and when would you hit the upper limit? I know it's different in every market and I guess the intermodals clearly got some headwinds here.
But I think thats really the one for good economics to really work thats when you really need to get the longer trains so you might be simply focused on that and just some general comments about train lengths? Cam you want to talk a little bit about the productivity opportunity in train lengths? Coal is about the only program that is nearly optimized although there is opportunities still within coal.
Every other commodity group has plenty of train size productivity opportunity and you will see us continuing to make progress balancing customer needs along the way.
Okay thanks for your time guys.
Thanks Brian.
Yeah good morning everybody.
I have a quick question about coal specifically a lot of pushback we get from investors with respect to UNP specifically as you have a competitor who due to some service issues and perhaps much larger portfolio strategy has invested significant amount of CAPEX out West and there is concern given the structural market share loss in coal and the competitive dynamic has structurally changed in their favor.
If I look at a 20-year market share chart of coal you and the BN used to swap share and were about 50% each every year.
And then in 2011 we saw a split and then again in 2014.
So there has been roughly a 10% shift where what used to be 50-50 is now 60-40.
I was wondering if you could just put some color around that.
I know that there were service issues in your line last year but even if I normalize for that spike the line and the trend is pretty consistent over a five year basis.
I am just wondering how you can address structurally the investor concerns that something hasnt changed in the West as it relates to coal? Yeah Matt I think if you go back historically and go back to the '80s when really the Powder River Basin franchise was developed for us certainly in addition to our competitor I think its been roughly call it a 55-45 split over time and as opposed to the 50-50.
But we dont look at markets in terms of what share we have in a market.
We look at it in terms of what's the value of that market what's the value of that franchise where we think we have value a value proposition to offer the market and we sell our value proposition and we are comfortable with the outcome in terms of the business that we win or lose based on the value proposition that we sell.
Right.
So I guess again in the context of people choosing to invest or not invest in your stock if I look at the economy and volumes Burlington Northern positive on volumes last year in coal.
Union Pacific down double-digit in coal.
You are saying you are comfortable with that? What we are comfortable with Matt is the diversity of our franchise.
Coal remains a nice book of business for us generates an attractive return thats how we look at all of our book of business in terms of can we generate an attractive return and we invest for that and we price for that.
And I think our track record speaks for itself.
Weve done a pretty fair job of making that happen.
Okay understood.
My quick follow up would be then if I look at down cash flow you yourself said I mean reducing the CAPEX budget by North of 500 million you have got some other tailwind you talked about bonus appreciations pretty material number as in terms of incremental cash flow potential.
You slowed the pacing of share repurchases in the fourth quarter.
Just wondering with that excess potential cash flow in 2016 is there an opportunity to step up share repurchases what are the guiding factors in terms of either debt ratios or what not in terms of how aggressively you are willing to use what should be some surplus cash flow in 2016? Thank you.
Rob do you want to take that.
Jr</span></strong> Yes Matt you are right.
I mean our expectation coming off of certainly with last year's low number from cash flow that we will hopefully positively generate increase in cash flow.
And yes well continue our philosophy of being opportunistic in the marketplace as it relates to shares.
So I would expect that we will continue to do that.
And as I called out by the way in the third quarter that was a high watermark if you will that weve seen at least in modern times of the rate of which we were buying back shares and that clearly was not our ratable rate in terms of shares.
But we were opportunistic in terms of when we buy and how much we buy and that attitude and that philosophy will continue in 2016.
But if we can generate stronger levels of cash that gives us greater opportunities and as we continue to walk up our debt to EBITDA as we said and as we have it gives us further opportunity.
Job one is generating cash from operations it all starts there and we are laser focused on that.
Understood thank you for the time.
Hey thank you for taking my questions.
So following up on that question around cap or cash flow I hear what you are saying in terms of your opposition to M&amp;A but if it were to take place Burlington Northern has already said that they are going to be involved if there is a waiver consolidation.
Given the cash flow that you are looking at generating in 2016 do you feel the need to maintain some of that is dry powder in the event that you were forced to react to a consolidation wave in the sector? John in addition to saying we dont support rail mergers at this time weve also said were paying close attention to the situation were monitoring it and as things evolve well do what is in the best interest of our shareholders and our stakeholders.
If you look at our capital structure we are in a solid position strategically if we had to do anything.
But what we are focused on right now is that in the current environment we think mergers are not in the interest of our customers and just monitoring that and keeping close tabs on it.
Okay alright.
And then my follow up is look I hate to ask you a such a short term type of question but Eric you mentioned in your commentary from intermodal risk perspective record high inventories and you talked a little bit about your thoughts on the consumer.
We got the Chinese New Year kind of right around the corner.
Normally there is typically kind of a surge in activity ahead of that do you anticipate or are you hearing from your shipper base customer base yet that there may be some intention to use that period as an opportunity to kind of clear the desk a little bit maybe clear the baffles on inventory and so you come out of maybe 1Q in a little bit better inventory situation or do you anticipate that you will still see maybe that normal pre Chinese New Year type of surge in intermodal volumes? We are hearing nothing specific from our shippers surrounding the Chinese New Year to disclose here.
I would say that every BCO is looking at rationalizing their inventories because they expect the holiday season higher than I think expected on inventories with sluggish retail sales.
I think across the Board you hear every customer talking about trying to right size their inventories.
Very good alright thanks for your time guys appreciate it.
Thank you John.
Thanks and good morning.
I was wondering if you could provide more color on the magnitude of the record productivity you noted in your comments and how much of that is predicated on a slightly down volume environment in other words if volumes end up being worse than you expect this year is record productivity still achievable? I will make one quick comment and that is what we saw in 2015 was both cost coming out because of volume getting the structure right and a much more fluid network in the second half of the year generating excellent productivity opportunities.
Jr</span></strong> Justin I would just add this is Rob I would just add that kind of what gives us the confidence that marker that I would point you to is our improvement in our operating ratio throughout the full year and I am confident that we will continue to do that.
In terms of at what pace we can do it when they were all about doing it as quickly and as efficiently and safely as we can but what will drive sort of the timing of that productivity as we move with volumes is going to be the mix of factors and the timing of when do our volume changes.
And as you know throughout 2015 the first half we are kind of chasing volume down and then we were able to sort of take advantage as things neutralize or straighten out a little bit in the back half.
And so that will be a factor too in terms of what volume swings may or may not occur.
But we are focused on squeezing out productivity as on everything we do and that's all I can point you to is that we will look at every stone and uncover it and look for opportunities.
Okay great.
And I know you are not giving specific EPS guidance for 2016 but just putting together the pieces here slightly down volumes core price increases record productivity better OR the benefit of share repurchases just from a directional standpoint would it be correct to say that your thinking about EPS being up year-over-year? Jr</span></strong> Rob the reason I am not giving guidance on the earnings is because there are so many uncertainties of which mix by the way is another headwind I would remind you of that.
I did call out and that will dictate I think in large part exactly how this year plays out.
So with all the uncertainties out there we are going to certainly focus and fight like heck to take advantage of whatever the economy plays us to turn in as positive of earnings and returns and cash generation as we can.
But we are not giving guidance as to exactly what the earnings will end up being for the year.
Okay fair enough.
Thanks for the time.
Sure thing Justin.
Thank you very much.
Lot of my questions have been answered but let me come back to the cash flow question if I can could you remind us of where you ideally want to have your debt levels whether you think about them as a debt to cap or debt to EBITDA and when I think about the positives to your 2016 cash flow you mentioned about 400 million bonus depreciation about 500 million less spend on CAPEX and for better or for worse with the shares down the way they are you can buy back shares that won't cost as much to still get your numbers on the share repo.
When you look at 2016 given the increased uncertainty are you more likely to say okay we are going to buyback whatever shares we are going to buyback but with the excess cash flow we just may not need as much debt to fund it or is your view that you are still under levered and you are willing to go to higher debt to cap levels? Rob? Jr</span></strong> Yes Jeff I would just remind you that guidance that we have given which we are comfortable with is working towards that debt to EBITDA of 2x and we have said sort of that is marker out there.
I think we still have a little bit of a room from the improvement we made on that metric in 2015.
So I would expect that we will continue to march forward if you will and as I pointed out we do expect largely because of a reduction in and we hope to generate stronger cash on the front end but we also have the benefit of lower CAPEX and the benefit of the bonus depreciation that I outlined.
So and we may do debt this year.
When we look at that that would not be an unrealistic expectation that you will see us take on additional debt this year.
All of that gives us additional -- gives us opportunities to generate stronger free cash flow and gives us opportunities to continue to be opportunistic in the marketplace.
Okay and so basically you were saying we have -- I think you are at 1.7 times debt to EBITDA and you are saying we can go to 2x so we can take on a little more debt but more likely we would use the cash flow just to fulfill our obligations? I dont think Rob said that.
I think he said we are going to generate cash we have got room in our balance sheet and we will see how the year plays out.
Okay thank you.
Thank you very much sir.
That's all I have.
Thank you.
Thanks Eric could you remind us what your percent of car loads yields are tied to the underlying price of a commodity that it holds? I am not quite sure what you are asking.
If you are asking about our pricing strategy and we dont really talk publically about our pricing strategy.
We have historically said we dont think philosophically that need to tie transportation to slings in commodity markets you have said that philosophically but we dont talk about our pricing strategy publically.
Id say I guess I am not interested in the strategy specifically is there a percentage that you provide of car loads that have the yield component that is specifically tied to the price of the underlying commodity? Yes again that we dont talk publically about our pricing strategy.
We dont talk about what are -- how our prices developed.
Okay thank you.
Good morning and thank you.
I wanted to talk about mix in terms of length of haul.
Ive seen lengths of haul getting shorter this quarter not just for coal but also chemicals and industrials is there a structural change going on what are the drivers of that and where do you see that trend? Thank you very much.
Eric do you want to talk about that? Our length of haul is down slightly this year and again it is other things that we have been talking about in terms of the mix headwinds with our coal business some of the mix headwinds with our frac sand business our long haul grain export business those are all mixed factors that has impacted our length of haul which was down slightly this year.
And I dont think we see anything structural thats some kind of long term trend.
Okay appreciate that.
And then my follow up is tied to one of your comments earlier that you haven't seen the benefit from low oil prices that not just you but many of us were talking about some kind of silver lining so what are you hiding from your customers do you get the sense or that they are postponing decisions just due to uncertainty or they are signaling to you that there is simply lower demand and what do you think might trigger both of the industrial economy that would reflect in your volumes and I know thats a long question but maybe tied to that if you could discuss the way you focus your business development as a result? Thanks very much.
Cleo Ill focus the answer on your question about not seeing the benefits of low oil.
There is multiple moving parts in there.
We are seeing capital investment occurring specifically along the Gulf Coast in our chemical franchise.
Those investments just haven't yet turned over into operating units and so thats a matter of time.
Thats an end of this year 2017-2018 kind of impact.
We are still hopeful for that impact.
The other part of it is consumers doing something with the windfall of lower energy cost and thats where it is really hard to see that showing through in the goods that we shipped for retailers.
And their feedback is while maybe services consumption is relatively healthy goods consumption isn't necessarily showing that.
Okay so then your business development remains focused in the chemical Gulf Coast footprint? Our business has a wonderful franchise that weve talked about.
One of the wonderful parts of that is this Gulf Coast franchise.
And with low natural gas as a feedstock to many of those manufacturers thats a benefit to them and we think ultimately will be something we can participate when they increase production.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Good morning thank you for taking my question and I apologize in advance if any of these questions have been asked I missed part of the call.
With respect to the headcount reduction I see that its principally and obviously within the running trades of the TE&amp;Y.
Taking that a level above are there any plans to review the support and/or indirect headcount as a consequence of the volume environment and I have a couple of other questions with specific volume things? Sami this is Lance.
We in the third quarter of last year and into the fourth quarter we announced and executed an involuntary force reduction on our non-agreement to our management ranks and that has been executed.
And then as we look forward we continue to look for opportunity to get our overall structure sized right for the markets that we are serving.
Attrition is our friend in that effort.
We typically get an attrition rate of 7% or 8% a year and we will use that to our advantage as and if we need to continue to adjust our overall structural cost.
Thanks for that Lance.
On the industrial side with respect to frac sand did you call out exactly how much of that was down and how much it now composes as a percentage of revenues? Eric? Unidentified Company Representative We did in both the prepared remarks and I think in the materials that were sent out we So I just take minerals as mostly frac sand? Yes the minerals is down 52% and the majority of that is frac sand.
Alright thank you very much gentlemen.
Thank you Sami.
Hey good morning.
Rob I think you called out $0.11 headwind from fuel in the fourth quarter have you guys thought about -- I am trying to range what we can expect from the fuel headwind for next year I mean obviously there is a lot of moving parts to that as well but if you just assume that oil prices kind of stabilize here and we move forward could you talk a little bit about how big the absolute steel headwind could be in 2016? Jr</span></strong> Yeah I didnt put a number on the full year but it could well be a headwind.
I did call out that the first quarter remember that we had about $0.08 of positive last year.
So we clearly have that as a hurdle facing us as the first quarter continues to play out.
Of course how fuel and the timing within an quarter will dictate exactly what that number ends up being year-over-year.
But we do see that as a headwind certainly in the first quarter and could continue at some pace throughout the year.
But similar to the volume comp issue you would say that if oil pricing were to stabilize then worst than the fuel impact would be front-end loaded? Jr</span></strong> Depending on what mix is and where the volumes actually are that's a fair assumption yes.
Okay and then I guess just as a general question it seems like on some of the published surcharge tariff tables fuel prices are getting to the point where surcharges actually zero out is that kind of a correct read to those tables or do you think that the fuel revenue will still got to be positive as we get through most of 2016? Rob? Jr</span></strong> Well as I said those are publically seen and the calculations for those you probably have an accurate calculation.
David I am with Rob I would just remind you and others that remember we have some 60 plus different surcharge mechanisms that have different starting points different components different timing mechanism around them so it is very difficult to draw any kind of a straight line conclusion.
But clearly at these low prices some of them are totally new edge.
Alright excellent.
Well thanks a lot for your time.
It has been a long call and good luck through the next couple of tough quarters on the volume side.
Thank you David.
Thank you Rob and thank you all for your questions and interest in Union Pacific.
We look forward to talking with you again in April.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!