Welcome to the U.S.
Bancorp's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Judy Murphy Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Deshante.
Good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorp's first quarter 2011 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our website at www.usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risks and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Judy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I'd like to begin on Page 3 of the presentation and point out a few highlights from our first quarter results.
U.S.
Bank reported net income of $1.046 billion for the first quarter of 2011 or $0.52 per diluted common share.
Our earnings were $0.18 higher than the same quarter of last year and $0.03 higher than the fourth quarter of 2010.
Included in this quarter's results was a gain related to the acquisition of the First Community Bank of New Mexico that positively impacted earnings per diluted common share by $0.02.
We achieved total net revenue of $4.5 billion this quarter which represented a 4.6% increase over the same quarter of 2010 with a 4.3% decline from the prior quarter which primarily reflected our company's normal first quarter seasonality.
Total average loans grew year-over-year by 2.4% or 2.1% excluding acquisitions.
Importantly for the third quarter in a row we achieved linked quarter loan growth as total loans grew by 1.1% over the fourth quarter or 0.7% adjusted for acquisitions.
Deposit growth was exceptionally strong this quarter with average low-cost deposit balances increasing by 15.3% year-over-year and 6.7% linked quarter.
Excluding acquisitions the year-over-year growth rate was a strong 10.2% and a linked quarter growth was 2.1%.
As expected credit quality improved as net charge-offs declined by 14.1% and non-performing assets excluding covered assets of the First Community Bank of New Mexico acquisition which you may recall that not include a loss share agreement declined by 4.7% from the fourth quarter.
Further this improvement in our credit quality supported a reduction in the allowance for credit losses and the company recorded a provision for credit losses that was $15 million less than the net charge-offs in the first quarter.
Our company continues to generate significant capital each quarter and our capital position remains strong with the Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios increasing to 8.2% and 10.8% respectively at quarter's end.
Slide 4 displays our consistent performance metrics over the past 5 quarters.
Return on average assets in the first quarter was 1.38% and return on average common equity was 14.5%.
The 5 quarter trends of our net interest margin and efficiency ratio are shown in the graph on the right-hand side of Slide 4.
As expected this quarter's net interest margin of 3.69% was lower than the same quarter last year and the prior quarter and Andy will discuss the factors that led to this change in a few minutes.
Our first quarter efficiency ratio was 51.1% lower than the prior quarter but above the same quarter of last year.
We remain the best among our peers in terms of efficiency and see this ratio continuing to average in the low 50s reflecting both revenue growth and cost associated with ongoing investments as well as the impact of recent legislative and regulatory actions on our revenue and on our expense.
Turning to Slide 5 as I previously noted our capital position remains strong and continues to grow.
In fact our Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III guidelines at March 31 was 7.7% well above the 7% Basel III level required in 2019.
Turning to Slide 6.
We were pleased to announce the long anticipated increase in our dividend on March 18 after receiving word from the regulators that they did not object to our proposed increase or other capital actions.
We announced a 150% increase in our dividend raising the annual rate from $0.20 to $0.50.
In addition the Board of Directors authorized the $50 million share repurchase program.
We believe the ability to buy back stock is important allowing flexibility and returning capital to shareholders over time.
In 2011 however buybacks are not expected to be meaningful until the final Basel III guidelines are established later this year.
Moving to Slide 7.
Average total loans outstanding increased by $4.7 billion or 2.4% year-over-year.
And in total new loan originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments were over $35 billion this quarter compared with approximately $27 billion in the first quarter of last year representing a 28% increase in new activity.
Importantly total corporate and commercial commitments outstanding increased by 9.6% year-over-year and 2.3% linked quarter positioning us to quickly fulfill our customers' lending needs as confidence returns and recovery takes a firm hold.
Total average deposits increased by $21.8 billion or 11.9% over the same quarter of last year.
As you can see from the slide a portion of that increase came from acquisitions most notably the December acquisition of the Securitization Trust business.
Total average deposits grew by $14 billion on a linked quarter basis or 7.4% primarily due to higher corporate trust balances which included the impact of the Securitization Trust business as well as growth in Consumer and Small Business Banking and the Wholesale and Commercial Real Estate business lines.
Turning to Slide 8.
The company reported total net revenue in the first quarter of $4.5 billion.
The increase in revenue year-over-year was driven by earning asset growth strength in our Fee businesses organic growth initiatives and acquisitions and tempered somewhat by the impact of recent legislative actions.
This was a record first quarter in terms of total revenue for our company demonstrating the positive impact that the investments we have made over the past few years are having on our results.
Turning to Slide 9 and credit quality.
First quarter total net charge-offs of $805 million were 14.1% lower than the fourth quarter of 2010.
Non-performing assets excluding covered assets and assets acquired through the recent First Community Bank of New Mexico transaction decreased by $159 million or 4.7%.
As you can see from the charts this represents the fourth consecutive quarter of declining net charge-offs and non-performing assets giving us further confidence that these trends will continue.
On Slide 10 the graph on the left shows continued improvement in the early and late stage delinquencies excluding covered assets in the first quarter.
On the right-hand side of Slide 10 the trends in criticized assets again gives us another indication that we have reached the inflection point in credit quality.
Accordingly we expect the level of both net charge-offs and non-performing assets excluding covered assets to trend lower in the second quarter of 2011.
Turning to Slide 11 you can see that for the second time since this credit cycle began we recorded a provision for credit losses less than the total net charge-off.
Specifically we released $50 million of reserves.
This compares with the provision for credit losses that was less than charge-offs by $25 million in the fourth quarter while an incremental provision equal to approximately 15% of net charge-offs or $175 million was recorded in the first quarter of last year.
The reserve release was primarily driven by the improvement in credit quality of the commercial and retail loan portfolios.
Before turning the call over to Andy I want to make a few comments about the recent interagency review of foreclosure policies and practices.
Let me say first that our company sets a very high standard for fair and ethical business practices.
We are a relatively small participant in the mortgage servicing market approximately 2% and have long been committed to sound modification and foreclosure practices.
Any recommendations by our regulators for improvements to our processes are however taken very seriously and we are committed to working with the regulators to quickly resolve any outstanding issues.
We have always regarded foreclosures as a last resort as we make every attempt to keep our customers in their houses through home retention programs.
In fact our home retention programs in 2010 outpaced new foreclosures by 50%.
Moreover our 60-day re-default rate a measure of loan modification effectiveness is significantly lower than industry average.
I would also note that we continue to have sufficient financial staffing and managerial resources to ensure the proper administration of our foreclosure processes.
As this was confirmed by the fact that no resource deficiency was cited by the regulators in the recent horizontal review.
We will continue to support our customers during these challenging economic times and we stand ready to assist them.
I'll now turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Richard.
I will just take a few minutes to provide you with more details about the results.
I turn your attention to Slide 12 which gives a full view of our first quarter 2011 results compared to the fourth quarter and first quarter of 2010.
Earnings per diluted common share of $0.52 were 52.9% higher in the first quarter of 2010 and 6.1% higher in the prior quarter.
The key drivers of the company's first quarter earnings are detailed on Slide 13.
The $377 million or 56.4% increase in net income year-over-year was primarily the result of $198 million or 4.6% increase in net revenue and a $555 million decrease in the provision for credit losses which include a $225 million favorable change in excess provision expense as we move from building reserves to releasing reserves.
These favorable changes in total net revenue and the provision were partially offset by $178 million or 8.3% increase in non-interest expense year-over-year.
Net income was $72 million or 7.4% higher on a linked-quarter basis.
A $171 million or 6.9% decrease in total expense and a favorable variance of $157 million in the provision for loan losses more than offset the 4.3% decrease in total net revenue quarter-over-quarter.
A summary of the significant items that impact the comparison over our first quarter results to prior periods are detailed on Slide 14.
The significant items called out for the first quarter of 2011 were $46 million bargain purchase gain related to the recent purchase of First Community Bank from the FDIC $5 million in net securities losses and a $50 million reserve release.
The fourth quarter of 2010 included a gain of $103 million equal to $41 million after-tax related to the exchange of the long-term Asset Management business of FAF Advisors for an equity interest in Nuveen Investments net securities losses of $14 million and a $25 million reserve release.
The two significant items impacting the first quarter of 2010 are also highlighted on Slide 14 and include a $34 million of security losses and $175 million incremental provision expense.
Turning to Slide 15.
Net interest income increased year-over-year by $104 million or 4.3% primarily due to a $25.1 billion or 10.1% increase in average earning assets and the benefit of strong growth in low-cost deposits.
The increase in average earning assets was driven by expected growth in the securities portfolio and a higher cash position of the fed reserve as well as growth in average loans and loans held for sale.
The net interest margin of 3.69% was lower than the net interest margin in the same quarter of last year primarily due to the expected increase and lower yield in investment securities as the company brought more liquidity on balance sheet in addition to an exceptional and unexpected growth in deposits which led to higher than anticipated cash position at the Federal Reserve.
On a linked-quarter basis net interest income was higher by $8 million the result of a $14.1 billion increase in average earning assets offset by a 14 basis point decline in net interest margin.
The net interest margin was lower than the prior quarter again due to the expected growth in lower yielding investment securities and the higher cash position at the fed.
Assuming the current rate environment and yield curve we expect that the net interest margin will decline in the second quarter by amounts similar to the decline we experienced in the last two quarters as we continue to add to our securities portfolio.
I would emphasize however that the anticipated reduction in net interest margin will continue to be neutral to net interest income and the bottom line as the decline in net interest margin is offset by an increase in average earning assets.
Slide 16 provides you with more detail on the change in average total loans outstandings.
Average total loans grew by $4.7 billion or 2.4% year-over-year.
Excluding acquisitions average total loans increased by 2.1%.
And as you can see from the chart on the left this increase was principally driven by strong growth in residential mortgages and a 3% increase in commercial loans which was the first year-over-year growth in average commercial loans since the second quarter of 2009.
Importantly commercial lending and commitments grew year-over-year.
On a linked-quarter basis the 1.1% increase in average loans outstandings were 0.7% excluding acquisitions was driven by increases in commercial commercial real estate and residential real estate lending reflecting a continued modest demand for new loans.
Average consumer loans decreased slightly on a linked-quarter basis as the decline in average credit card home equity and second mortgages and other retail lending were slightly offset by growth in auto leasing and lending where we continue to experience incremental growth each quarter.
Moving to Slide 17 you can see that the growth in total low-cost core deposits over the last five quarters.
Average total deposits grew by $21.8 billion or 11.9% year-over-year.
Significantly low-cost deposits non-interest bearing interest checking money market and savings grew by 15.3%.
On a linked-quarter basis average deposits increased by 7.4% while average low-cost deposits increased by 6.7% principally due to corporate trust and the recent acquisition as well as growth in Wholesale Banking Commercial Real Estate and the Consumer and Small Business Banking business lines.
Slide 18 presents in more detail the changes in non-interest income on a year-over-year and linked-quarter basis.
Non-interest income in the first quarter of 2011 was $94 million or 4.9% higher than the first quarter of 2010.
This variance was driven by growth in payments in commercial product revenue and a favorable change in net securities losses in the First Community Bank gain.
These favorable variance were partially offset by lower deposit service charges which reflect the legislative and bank developed pricing changes.
On a linked-quarter basis non-interest income was lower by $210 million or 9.5%.
This unfavorable variance was primarily the result of seasonally lower payments revenue a reduction in trust and investment management fees the net result of the sale of our long-time Asset Management business to Nuveen partially offset by the December purchase of a Securitization Trust Administration business and lower Mortgage Banking revenue which declined by $51 million primarily due to reduction in application volume partially offset by a favorable change in the MSR valuation and an unfavorable change related to a few significant items which are detailed in the chart at the bottom of Slide 18.
Slide 19 highlights non-interest expense which was higher year-over-year by $178 million or 8.3%.
The majority of the increase can be attributed to higher benefits expense due to increase in pension cost and higher staffing levels higher compensation driven by incentives and commissions additional staffing for branch expansion and business line initiatives and merit increases and an increase in professional services marketing and business development expense on occupancy primarily related to investments projects and other business line expansion activities.
Slightly offsetting these increases was a reduction in other intangible expense before run-off.
On a linked-quarter basis non-interest expense was lower by $171 million or 6.9% due to lower compensation expense specifically related to incentives and commissions seasonally lower professional services and marketing and business development expense and seasonally lower investments in affordable housing and other tax-advantage projects.
Offsetting these favorable variances was an increase in benefits expense attributed to the higher pension cost and a seasonal increase in payroll taxes.
Finally the tax rate on a tax-equivalent basis was 29% in the first quarter of 2011 compared with 27.8% in the fourth quarter of 2010 and 24.2% in the first quarter of 2010.
Slide 20 provides updated detail on the company's mortgage purchase related expense and the reserve for expected losses on repurchases and make-whole payments.
Our company's conservative credit and underwriting culture as well as our very disciplined loan origination processes has resulted in lower mortgage repurchase volumes and expense relative to our peers.
Recall that we did not participate in the private placement securitization market.
Our company originates conforming loans about 95% of which are sold to the GSEs.
During the current environment we expect mortgage repurchase activity to remain slightly elevated over the next few quarters before beginning to moderate downward with quarterly repurchase expense of $50 million to $70 million per quarter.
I will now turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Andy.
To conclude our formal remarks I'll turn your attention to Slide 21.
Our annual meeting is scheduled for later today in St.
Louis and I look forward to reviewing our 2010 results with our shareholders and demonstrating how our strong performance over the last year and the last 3 years and finally the last 5 years places us at the top of our peer group and confirms the strength of our company's financial position and diversified business model.
More importantly I will talk about the future and the momentum we've created by continuing to invest through this cycle including investments in our core branch banking footprint and in technology to enhance productivity and service investments in new products and services and in our global presence.
We are well prepared to adapt to the changing legislative regulatory and economic environment.
We are also prepared to lend our voice and our energy to defend reasonable rules and policies that protect the safety and soundness of the banking industry while protecting the investment of our shareholders.
We are now looking forward toward the future.
We have a clear focus and a clear mission and we're ready to embrace the opportunities ahead opportunities to serve our customers further improve current processes deepen our franchise and build upon our reputation as a trusted provider of financial products and services.
U.S.
Bank is positioned to continue to perform and to win for our customers for our employees our communities and most importantly for our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Bill and I would be now happy to take questions from our audience.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Andy was wondering if you could just repeat the guidance about the process of moving liquidity onto the balance sheet the amount of securities that you'll be adding should look similar to this quarter do you say? And then the impact on the upticks of the net interest margin could you just repeat that? Sure I'd be happy to John.
So let me first re-highlight what occurred in the first quarter.
We increased our securities portfolio by about $6 billion as we expected to do and as we talked about last quarter.
In addition as you probably noticed a tremendous amount of liquidity in the marketplace and our customers both wholesale and retail have tremendously increased their deposit balances with U.S.
Bank which resulted in a long cash position of about $7 billion at the fed this quarter.
Those 2 things resulted in our decline in net interest margin about half and half.
As we go into the second quarter I would expect us to continue to build our securities portfolio in the neighborhood of about $5 billion plus or minus which will impact margin again in that 8 to 10 basis points category.
I do not expect a continuation or an increase in the long cash position but at the same time I don't expect it to moderate much.
So going forward I would expect a decline low 360 right around 360 range for margin in the second quarter.
And John this is Richard.
As a reminder everybody I appreciate you leading with that question.
I think last quarter we may have confused some folks by talking about the NIM [net interest margin] coming down but not reminding that the total balance sheet grows.
So these activities are neutral if not slightly positive to our net interest income and it's important that you know we're not harming the company's earnings by doing -- taking these actions to improve our liquidity.
Inc.</strong> Right.
We see that right? We see that in this quarter's result right and NII growth.
Yes we did.
And Andy in spite of the fact that there were 2 fewer days in the first quarter versus the fourth which costs us about $30 million.
So yes our margin income continues to grow even though net interest margin rate declines.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And what would be the duration of this process Andy will it extend beyond the second quarter? The securities purchases we expect to continue on through the remainder of this year.
John again as we build on-balance sheet liquidity in conjunction with the LCR [liquidity coverage ratio] ratio.
Inc.</strong> So that dynamic neutral to NII [net interest income] but impacting the optics of the NIM should continue through the third and fourth quarters? Correct.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And could you give us some broader thoughts it sounds like on the Commercial side you've got a little bit better loan demand in a way you were on utilization and just your sense of where we are on the loan growth recovery curve here? This is Richard John.
It's still measured slow and slightly positive.
But there's nothing remarkable about it.
I think we have seen the economy slow a bit in the second half of the first quarter when we last had a chance in the public forum to talk to all of you things are actually not quite as positive as we thought they would be at the middle of the quarter.
You'll recall that in those 6 or 8 weeks since we last talked a lot has happened.
The GDP [gross domestic product] has come down from 3 to 3.5 to more of a forecasted 2 to 2.5 the supply-chain disruptions in Japan oil prices and just continued confidence not being quiet where it needs to be hasn't stopped things.
It hasn't reversed things but it hasn't created any additional momentum even with the seasonality included.
So what we're seeing is actually our commitments are up 2% linked quarter for the Wholesale business but our usage is still down even 1% from there.
So we have people that were continuing to bank that are ready to use their line but they're demonstrating that even when they have the availability of credit they're not using it.
And likewise as we've talked in times before the first measure of our customers using their confidence to grow and to invest in things would be their use of their own demand deposits and they're not using those either.
As Andy said we're at  record high levels so we'll see the demand deposits continue to be high until they start to use it then the line of credit will be used and then eventually new loan originations will be more robust.
So for us it's slow steady measured slightly positive but not strong by any means.
And I do think it's fragile so it's something we have to watch very closely in the second quarter while we expect seasonality and all kinds of other normal things to occur and we'll know that in a couple of weeks whether or not we're off to a decent 2011.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on capital deployment.
You mentioned that your Basel III numbers are already ahead of where you need to be in 2019 yet you've got a conservative approach on the buybacks.
Is that a regulatory preference Richard or just a U.S.
Bank being conservative kind of preference? Yes it's a regulatory preference because I might actually be more aggressive.
The fact is that during the capital assessment plan as you know was a pass/fail test and you didn't really get feedback along the way.
So we made it very clear that we aren't going to take any risks to impair our ability to move first and forward with some dividend action and eventually buybacks.
So in our 1-year forward 2-year forward capital assessment plan for which the first year they used as the assessment for capital actions we stayed below the 30% as you know forward year for dividends and we placed a number in there based on a buffer for capital and a time for you to pun [ph] which would begin our buybacks.
All of which were very conservative all of which were regulatory driven.
Each of which are still positive toward the shareholders but not where we want it to be eventually and were left to our own devices it would've been more aggressive.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Your next question comes from the line of Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Actually John asked two of my questions but let me just ask you a little more detail in terms of the securities buying.
Can you give us a sense of -- obviously you're going to end the year with a heck of a lot more investment securities than you started the year and you're even buying in 4Q as well.
How can we get a sense that this is going to be match funded and we're not going to be taking on more interest rate risk as rates rise with a much larger securities portfolio is it real short duration? Is it floating? What are you buying? It seems like a lot of it's funded with deposits which could actually go away if rates start rising.
So just trying to get a sense of that a little bit.
Sure Ed.
This is Andy so it is match funded.
We're not taking any additional interest rate risk.
One of the ways you'll see that is from our interest rate risk position that we'll publish in the Q every quarter but I can assure you that we are not taking additional interest rate risk.
About half of it's floating.
Half of it's fixed.
It's a duration less than two years and we are being very careful about what we're putting on with the intention of not taking additional interest rate risk.
And as you mentioned we will probably end the year of somewhere in the neighborhood of 70 or so in our securities portfolio.
Okay.
And no duration extension or anything in a rising rate environment or...
We're staying very short on these purchases just for the purpose that you mentioned which is to keep it interest rate risk neutral.
Okay.
And then I guess just a quick follow-up I guess to John's question with respect to the buyback.
I mean it seems like given where your Basel III Tier 1 common ratio is at 7.7% and with some stock price weakness of late with all the banks it would be a great time to be buying the stock.
And clearly even if the Basel standards come in higher than we think or the systemic risk buffer is higher than we think you guys are building capital very rapidly.
So I think Richard what you're saying is you feel like your hands are a little tied based on what you ask for and how you ask for it within the capital planning process? Is that what you're saying in terms of the buyback? Well no we have permission to proceed with the buyback.
So my hands aren't tied.
My level of amount and speed might have been different.
But the fact is you already mentioned it we're also waiting for the SIFI buffer which might be -- for systemically important financial institutions some number yet to be developed but what I understand will be known in the next couple of months.
That will help inform all of us what -- on top of the 7% we all need to hold what will be the SIFI buffer.
And then U.S.
Bank intends to hold the buffer a small buffer above that just for the vagaries of the denominator in the movement of some of the balance sheet.
So that number for us is at this point a guesstimate in our plan.
And with that guesstimate which we won't disclose but we will be able to move forward with buybacks we also are kind of sitting to see where that number comes in to see how well we guesstimated that number.
I think in a couple of months we'll have much more clarity around that Ed and we will be able to move forward.
I would love very much to take some of that capital that we're building and use for that purpose for as long as we patiently waited to get to this point.
I'm not going to take any actions until I have all the final facts and that's probably just a quarter away at which point that will be more clear on our timing and our amount.
Okay.
But I guess it sort of begs the question given how fast you're building capital even if that SIFI buffer is bigger than you suspect and bigger than maybe we're all suspecting it seems like USB is already pretty forward in the lead and would be building capital faster.
So doesn't seem like you would be required to be at that level right away.
You could build into that SIFI buffer yet the market might be giving you an opportunity to buy back stock at a nice price currently.
So just wondering why you're not sort of taking advantage of that.
Okay I understand so the clarity that you may think we have we don't.
So while your argument and your logic make sense the test was pass/fail.
There was no sense of let me ask you this or can we try that.
And so it's not so much waiting for the SIFI buffer.
It's the fact that the test was a 1-year test forward view all or nothing in or out.
And at this point that's all the information we have.
Now as we have learned more especially with the SIFI buffer we'll be going back in asking for permissions to adjust perhaps what we put in the first round but until which time we have that idea you're right on all accounts we're growing capital quite well.
We can get to a point where we can set whatever level we want to be at and from that point we can buy back stock or do other actions capital actions that will keep it at that number or above.
But Ed as long and patiently as we waited to get to this point 2.5 years I want to get it right.
I don't want to take any risks and I don't want to push any levels of test when we haven't been given those permissions.
So I don't think we're far off from that.
I think it won't change though.
We're building capital strongly and won't change our options and our ability to move quickly and are prepared to.
But I think we're just one step from getting a little more clarification on the final part of the test.
Okay.
And then just one last quick one Andy if you don't get the kind of deposit growth you anticipate over the next few quarters will you still be buying a significant amount of additional securities or is that sort of predicated on the idea that you're going to continue to get this kind of deposit growth? No that's two independent events Ed.
We continue to buy securities.
Our deposit growth has been phenomenal the last quarter and really that's led to our long cash position which is separate and distinct from the security purchase.
So we will buy securities regardless and our liquidity is sufficient overly strong in fact to accommodate that.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure Ed.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
I had some of the same questions.
But I was wondering about on your Wealth Management disclosure on Page 11 of the services is that drop in Wealth Management revenues? Is that purely the Nuveen transaction? It is.
Chris it's 100% over 100% from the Nuveen transaction with a little bit of core growth and some addition from the Bank of America Corporate Trust acquisition but the whole decline is due to Nuveen.
Okay.
And then on the slide with the non-performers 9 in the conference call do I read that the FCB acquisition added $287 million to your non-performing base or your decline in the NPAs [non-performing asset] would've been $287 million without it? The decline without it was 4.7%.
So adding the $287 million then put us up.
So we did add $287 million of non-performing assets from the acquisition.
Okay so that was the add.
Okay and then I guess just in general can you talk if there's a geographic pattern to the recovery that you're experiencing or are the trends that we see here in aggregate are they kind of broadly dispersed through all the geographies that you operate in? Yes.
I was going to say first and then I'll have Bill answer it.
Geography isn't so much noteworthy in this recovery.
It's more product type and customer type.
Things like add continue to be strong but it depends on whether the consumer products or entertainment and gaming whether these are companies that are looking for consumer-derived products that start higher up in the food chain.
So for us it's more product type and keeping Commercial Real Estate off to the side which I'll have Bill talk about.
Geography for us and we're a national company isn't really very noteworthy but we are seeing product types.
And as you might know Chris the strong companies are really showing themselves because they position themselves earlier in this recession to be ready.
As a matter of fact they got themselves ready.
They are loan worthy and still in many cases they're not taking actions because they're still not to that point.
So they're ready to move but they're just on the precipice of having the confidence to do it.
So geography is the one thing we don't really see in the evidence but we see a number of other things that I'll have Bill talk about it.
Yes I mean the one area geography is coming into plays on real estate and the coastal regions with the exception on Florida are stronger.
I mean especially California the closer to the coast you are the stronger the markets are both residential and commercial.
Some of the East Coast markets are stronger too but that's pretty much limited to the real estate markets as opposed to just sort of general economic activity.
And then the one property type that is pretty strong now is the Multi-Family and I think that's a reflection of how the residential markets are somewhat stalled.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Just a few clarification questions here.
I guess the first is if we look at your credit card spending volumes year-over-year maybe I missed it but do you disclose that still? We can in terms of same-store sales? So Matt our same-store sales numbers which is a key driver of our merchant or acquire activity same-store sales were up 4.6% year-over-year here in the first quarter which is down from the fourth quarter which was about 5.5% 5.4% but up from a year ago which was just about 3.5%.
So we're seeing -- as Richard described the economy overall that's what we're seeing in spend better than last year but down a bit from the fourth quarter of this year.
And Matt I'll say that the same-store sales of that 4.6 a high percentage of that is T&amp;E is up in quarter 1 by corporate spend particularly.
Retail is up about 3%.
So it's a little of in between those two.
So we're seeing the companies particularly airlines and hotels being the higher percentage of T&amp;E spend in quarter 1.
Based on our portfolio that's what's driving a good percentage of that.
And not unlike I said earlier the second half of the quarter seems to be slowing from what we thought we might be seeing as a trend in the first half.
It's not coming to a screeching halt.
It's just starting to taper down a bit as people move into quarter 2.
Okay and then just separately with credit continuing to improve unlike other banks you have not drawn down your loan loss reserves as much.
And I'm wondering if there's more drawdown or the pace of drawdown will accelerate the next couple of quarters versus what we saw in the first quarter.
Well I'll tell you what based on what you saw the first quarter if we continue to see the improvement that we're seeing we will continue to release reserves at levels probably equal to if not slightly higher than you just saw.
But as I said like a year ago if that's the case then we just didn't do a very good job going on the way up because we simply didn't know when this thing would peak and when it would come back down.
Let me also say however that once we get to a place where credit quality accelerates like a roller coaster does at the end of the fall this credit quality is going to get to a point that's better than sustainable.
I mean when you think about most things that have been originating any risky credits at all on the last couple of years by the time the current customers are either recovered or gone our credit quality across the board is going to be excessively positive and it will be here too.
But my point in telling you this is there will be a certain level that we'll set for ourselves no matter what the rule set may be but our loan loss provisions will remain high enough to account for over the cycle kind of losses not at any one point exactly to the number that you see because I do not want to have loan loss reserves back down to low unsustainable levels when things get so good.
I want to have them available for when we get to the point over the cycle that I think will be more normalized.
And we said for this company that we think it's probably about 1% charge-offs annualized over the long cycle for this company.
We're 1.65 right now.
So we're still on our way to 1.
I think we'll pass through 1 and we'll eventually come back to it.
And so later in future quarters while we'll do some reserve releases it won't be lockstep exactly with the performance of the portfolio because that's not going to be sustainable over the long run.
And then just lastly if I may as we look at the expense growth year-over-year of about 8% there's obviously some deal impact.
I think last quarter you talked about a 5% to 6% expense growth as kind of a more normal run rate and is that a fair growth rate year-over-year? And then going forward is that what you're expecting as well? Yes.
I think Matt that is a fair growth rate year-over-year.
The other point here in the first quarter versus a year ago we did have about a $50 million increase in pension expenses reset once a year when we reset our pension assumptions.
And that's a factor in the first quarter which would remain more level throughout the year accounting for payroll taxes and the like.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Nomura.
I guess on the outlook for pre-provision earnings growing this year relative to last that you'd given on the last conference call I mean in light of 1Q generally positive results and your comments about the go-forward deceleration in the economy.
Are you more or less confident in the ability to grow pre-provision year-over-year? Again I think what we said Brian was accounting for sort of the significant items for example the Nuveen gain that we are confident and that hasn't changed.
And then on -- the other point you had given on last call was revenue recapture from reg reform.
The ability to recapture about 50% of lost revenue.
There again are you kind of more or less confident and maybe what are some of the products is it mostly just about instilling fees on existing products or is it more traction with alternative products like prepay cards and checking account advances and the like? You just gave me the answers.
So yes it's both.
We're going to continue to look at our pricing schemes to make sure that they're fair and that they're market favored.
We're going to continue to involve ourselves in some of these more innovative products both card products and what we'll call mobile banking alternatives.
And I think Brian if anybody has followed us as you have we're a different company.
Now we don't sell 1 product anymore.
We don't deal with 1 customer at a time on 1 product at a time.
We are much more relationship focused.
That's yielding amazing amount of benefits and during the recession the flight to quality which we don't use the term loosely it has brought a number of customers and their entire relationship to our company during this transition.
So those are the things including the pricing and the product development that give me reasonably that at least 50% of the lost revenue will be accomplished by these new changes.
I'll add that this is pre-driven.
We don't have it driven yet in our numbers.
We've given you the sizing for what that could be.
Being as close as anyone is to the activities under Durbin it's still a 50-50 call and whether or not we're going to end up having the kind of the severe loss of income that's currently proposed.
And if that's the case then we'll have to go back and evaluate our product sets and exactly how we'll be pricing for what will now be the debit products that are currently part of our checking products.
But unless and until that happens we're going to wait and see.
And we're just a few months away from getting a better sense of that.
Because no matter what happens by the deadline that the fed has in July we'll know the answer one way or the other.
And by the next time we all speak we'll have a much better clarity on whether the Durbin amendment is a negative or a wait-and-see activity for this company and we have not decided how we would recover those losses at this point.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Aside 2 columns when it relates to loan growth one are your negative comment and some positive trend I'm trying to reconcile the two.
So you said the second half the first quarter was weaker loan utilization is still kind of flat and record high corporate deposit means you don't have a lot of loan growth.
On the other hand you had if I'm doing this correctly 2.4% linked-quarter growth in commercial loans and also when I outlook at loan syndication year-over-year your deal volume has doubled.
So is this all market share or market expansion and none with the economy or if you can reconcile those two? Yes sure.
This is Richard.
First it's not very good because it's not good enough for us.
We really expected ourselves to be growing at that 1.5% to 2% linked quarter that we had in quarter 4.
So we're just disappointed that we're not keeping at that pace.
We're still very pleased that it's positive at all.
Let me remind you that when I talk about commercial credit commitments they're up 2% but they're not using them.
So for me it's a proxy.
If I were an investor I'd say "Gosh if these deposits that you guys are growing are proxies for new customers now these commitments that you're growing whether they're being used or not are proxies for future loan usage." That's what I want you to hear but we don't have anything to show for it right now on the loan balance sheet.
And so loan balance sheet growing on a adjusted 0.7 linked-quarter percent that is wholly insufficient as far as I'm concerned given the kind of money we have here that we can deploy back in the loan.
But we're setting everything up for that moment when people finally decide to pull the string and use their lines of credit or use their own deposits or get a new loan.
So intend to tell you that we're quite pleased with our performance against our peers in an environment where I think the overall loan growth is shrinking.
I love the fact that we're positioning ourselves for a really good future when all of these starts to come around.
But I'm not satisfied that 0.7% adjusted link loan growth is a very good outcome when we have this kind of earnings opportunity sitting under our nose.
I will tell you however there's no temptation none to change our underwriting criteria in order to adjust those outcomes because that will be a mistake that we would live with many many quarters and years from now.
But as I've said before we will take the permissions with good relationships to be a competitive on price because we can afford to and because relationships are easier to be more aggressive in pricing.
And we will continue to do that and that's part of what it means to protect customers and grow market share.
Last quarter you said you were going a little more out of footprint can you give us a status of that? Yes as I said last quarter I meant for the last year or so we've been out of footprint.
Our commercial real estate is now national.
Our Corporate Banking is wholly national and we're seeing a great deal of benefit from that.
Maybe as much in the out of footprint as we are in the in-footprint because we've been invited into so many new relationships.
I think our branding our national advertising has brought people to think of us for the first time in the other 25 states.
I know that our flight to quality particularly at the level of CFO and Controller of large companies has said I need another bank in my stable of partners.
I want to bring you in and see how you perform.
So we're getting a lot of growth from new entrants and new relationships which for us is long-term very very valuable because that will be some relationships we can count on that we didn't have a few years ago.
And can I just get a little more color on the syndicated loans? I mean I'm not sure if your logic is a perfect source.
But that has your year-over-year syndicated loan volume having doubled you're not alone.
But it would be great to get some more color how much of the syndicated loan deals translated into higher commercial loan balances? Probably not a lot in the balances based on what we've seen in utilization.
But clearly we're much more actively involved in that market.
We've built out the capital markets capabilities in our bank and with the national corporate strategy we've been able to bring a much better product set to clients and new prospects.
So it's been great for fee income generation probably less so on loan balance but hopefully that will come.
And Mike the one thing that we love our position as the fifth-largest commercial bank there's a lot of reasons I love being there.
But the one area we have to watch for is that we don't have the balance sheet size that the top 4 do so we have to be very competitive as it relates to hold levels and syndication.
What we have found is if you can get in at a very meaningful level Tier 1 or Tier 2 with our capital markets capabilities and our other products like our single plan and other capabilities that we have in corporate cards we've been invited in to other products that the level that Tier 1 typically enjoys.
So the perfect spot for us is to be a competitive meaningful partner in a syndication to get the other business and develop a relationship depth that we've never had before we had all these capabilities.
So you're right to see us much more visible on the tables.
You'll see our syndication activity much higher.
What you can't see yet is how much other business is coming from that which is what I promised you all based on the investments you permitted us to make in the last couple of years in the Corporate Banking and in the payment space.
And then lastly and I guess I'll say the one CEO -- say it very clearly the second half of the first quarter has gotten weaker.
Is that simply you and your firm's macro analysis or are you seeing something on the ground that's really weaker? Well it's not a whole lot different then.
Whatever we showed you today is the same assessment I'm using.
So you can look at the same data and disagree.
But the only thing you can't see is what I was thinking was in the middle of quarter 1.
We saw trajectories in what we thought will be line and loan usage and what we thought would be in deposit levels starting to be used for growth.
And instead based on our expectations none of those happened at the same level.
Loan and line usage wasn't as robust.
Deposit levels were exceptionally higher.
People are putting more away than we thought.
And as I described at top of the call I think you'd agree there was some worldwide unprecedented events that all came together in the second half of quarter 1 and I'm not surprised about the reaction by our customers.
They're being very careful.
They're being very safe and that doesn't mean they're not going to eventually do it.
It just means they're not doing it as fast as we have thought so it's not gloom and doom.
It's just based on our rather positive expectation.
They're not quite as positive but they're measured and they're slow and they're predictable and for me they're painlessly slow.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
Two questions here.
Richard could you just talk to us a little bit about the consent order from the fed to the outside observers it was a fairly broad brush assessment.
And if you could just talk about your own situation what they found and what you agreed with or what you see as the deficiencies and what you've done to correct them.
Thanks Nancy.
I appreciate the question.
So the consent order as you know was the result of the 14 bank horizontal review last quarter 4.
And in their findings they discovered what I'll call a number of technical deficiencies in the way a bank's including -- we performed some of the perfected leans and some of the activities and modifications.
I'm happy to report as I hope you heard in my opening comments that we were one of the very few one of only two companies that were not found to be deficient in our resources applied toward modifications and foreclosures which means we don't have a large staffing number to give you here on this call.
In fact parenthetically we've added 48 people just to have a better point of contact.
So it's not a financial issue for us.
What it is though is a case for us to -- the bar has raised on things like using attorneys and other states for the purpose of pursuing the foreclosure legalities.
And in our case we did not have them through the vendor program which we actually didn't think we needed to.
And so we will now put them through our vendor program and for us it's going to be mostly formed well over a substance but where we need to do a better job of documenting our activities we will.
Beyond that for this company it's really nothing more than that.
As much as I'm respectful of it and we're going to do our level best to be the first out because I think our remedies are quite reasonable.
But I will tell you as well that you won't hear us talk about another large amount of money put away for either litigation or for put backs.
As Andy mentioned in his part of the call we'll remind you that 95% of the loans we originate are either I sensed all they're Freddie or Fannie or the GSEs.
The other 5% either comes through us keeping on balance sheet like some of our jumbo mortgages or maybe a part of the acquisitions that we brought on which are fully covered assets.
So we don't have a large put back risk for those private securitizations that might be coming back towards us.
And likewise and somewhat connected we don't have a large litigation.
We don't have any litigation right now to speak of so we have nothing probable or estimable to put in to any kind of reserves.
So with 2% of the servicing market even though we're the sixth largest we see this as a very important activity to improve the quality of our foreclosure modifications.
We actually -- we're not found to have any foreclosure that were incorrect no fees incorrectly assessed.
We simply didn't dot all the Is and crossed all the Ts with the new level of expectation and we will do that going forward.
So for me it's a very important audit.
And it has with it necessary steps for which we've created our special board committee and we will pursue those with aggression and we'll do it with respect.
But I'm looking forward to getting past it and I think you'll find very little to come from that finding as it relates to changes in our behaviors and certainly not changes to our financials.
And let me add we're not part of the 5 companies that are apparently working with the attorneys generals on finalizing what will be the new mortgage foreclosure protocols nor are we looking at how those final decisions on any kind of a penalty to what money penalty may be.
So we sit and wait and are watching to see what comes from that and we don't know exactly how that will affect our company.
But assuming and the best or worst case it's somehow equal to our market share.
It's something that we can handle.
It'll be a one-time event and something we can explain to all of you very easily.
And I have a similar sort of big issue question.
I'm sure you're familiar with the Jamie Dimon Dick Durbin smack down that seems to be going on.
And one of Senator Durbin's concerns or statements that I'm sort of sympathetic to is the banks are talking a lot about raising fees.
And clearly in some quarters this is being seen as a "threat." If you have to recoup Durbin revenues how are you going to present this to your customers so that it is not seen that way? There just seems to be a sort of rising public anger about some of this stuff.
Yes Nancy let me give you my sense.
I'll add a step in between.
Durbin I think his intention was good and his intention was to make sure that customers aren't harmed by paying unnecessary fees of any type for any transaction and point-of-sale.
I don't think he's trying to decide whether it was banks or merchants.
He just wanted to go back to the consumers.
Have the fed in their first pass provided an answer that was close to what would have been the cost of doing business for us to cover debit activities including the stand-in for guarantees and the immediate credit and all the things you know there will be a discussion here.
Durbin's interpretation as done by the Fed would have been something we would have probably agreed that was fair and equitable and we would've moved forward.
But at $0.12 to be wholly 25% 20% 25% of what the real number is under anybody's measure that was unexpected.
And so I think what we're trying to say as much not to Durbin as much as we are to the fed and those who will make the final decision is go back review all the facts take the time to figure out what it really costs a bank to provide the kind of immediate credit and the transaction guarantee that occur for both the merchant and the consumer at the point-of-sale let us give you some feedback on that you make a final decision.
And if after all that the number is deemed to be whatever and we think it's fair and equitable even if it's not exactly the cost of doing business I think that would change the outcome that we all feel.
But should the fed decide to still come forward on July 21 with $0.12 for at least large banks that will be still wholly insufficient for our shareholders.
We're going to have to play that very delicate walk between taking care of our shareholders and taking care of our customers.
And I will let our customers know that the cost of providing those guarantees have a value and it will later show itself up in the form of a service charge or in many cases customers can offset the service charge by the relationship value that they have in other things.
I won't hesitate to make it a -- I won't make it a threat but I won't make it a secret and what will be sad about this is there'll be a number of customers on the edges the less bank that will now become unbanked.
And sadly because of the way the rules are coming down the unbanked will fall into an area that so far with all the things that Dodd Frank wanted silent to any activities of overseeing companies that are not part of the banking industry.
So I worry about the unintended consequences but we're not going to play threat.
We're not going to put our customers in the middle of a dogfight.
And I have actually quite a bit of confidence that somehow between the congress and the fed that $0.12 will be rendered to be a much more reasonable number and any outcomes that we need to talk about here will be in fact invisible and we'll just move forward.
Thank you.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Just a question on the Commercial lending and maybe some trends that you're seeing in the Capital Markets business that you've alluded to a little bit earlier today.
Middle market loans in terms of average loan balances were up quarter-over-quarter and national corporate was up a little bit quarter-over-quarter from your supplement.
I'm just curious if because of your position in some of these larger deals you are continuing to see momentum in the capital market side of things taking advantage of being able to bring some of these companies to market.
In terms of debt markets? LLC</strong> Correct.
Yes well I mean we clearly are -- I mean we 2 or 3 years ago we really didn't have much in the way of Capital Market activity.
Now we've got a robust syndication desk along with high-grade underwriting platform so two products that we just really we're not strong at didn't even exist 2 to 3 years ago.
So for our middle market customers our end market middle market customers that's a whole new product set that we're delivering.
And for our national corporate platform it gets back to being able to participate at higher levels and up-tiering in these national corporate markets.
It's Richard.
As you might guess the timing was fortuitous and sometimes it's good to be lucky than it is smart.
But to build this during the down market and to now have companies that are starting to look for growth and eventually in some cases M&amp;A activities and more sophisticated solutions boy to have it all on and ready to go at this time has been just perfectly suited for us.
And as I mentioned earlier becoming national now and not just being regional we've invited ourselves in to providing just guidance and in many cases the guidance alone the way we've talked to the customers the way we've connected with the CFOs and the CEOs has changed the way they feel about a bank that can be a partner and in many cases we won the business just on the audition.
LLC</strong> But in terms of the last couple of quarters rather than the last 2 or 3 years are you seeing an improvement in the momentum in that business or has the market been relatively flat for that type of activity within U.S.
Bank? On the last couple of quarters we've seen good demand in those spaces.
But Matt it's a little hard to tell because we're such a -- our base is so low in other words we're just going like crazy.
We are adding people.
We've got all kinds of new customers.
It's a little bit of both.
We're seeing the market receptive to this kind.
As you see the corporate bank the corporate customers are more likely to be healthier and looking for opportunities Capital Markets solution.
But we're also growing like crazy just because we're invited to more conversations.
So I'd say it's probably 50-50 half of us and a half of what's the market providing in terms of interest.
LLC</strong> Richard just a quick clarification on your comments in terms of the mortgage market what's going on with some of the negotiations between the banks and other parties presuming your comments related to market share were focused on any number of items but I just want to clarify that your comments particularly related to potential principal reductions on home-equity loans or other mortgages you think that that's going to be relatively less of an issue for you than for some of the other competitors? Matt I'll tell you what I don't even know if it's going to be principal reduction.
I think that would be a big mistake by the way.
That's absolutely of all of the things to work on that's not one of them.
But let's just say that there's some superfund that's created by the larger banks in order to provide some relief for the foreclosure process and to help kind of change the future outcome.
I believe that we'll be part of that once and when those decisions are made.
But at a 2% market share and even something less than that as it relates to the percentage of loans that are for instance say foreclosed I think the number will be -- no matter how big the pool is I think there'll be a smaller number for us something that's quite manageable.
And for us you'll see we simply don't have -- in the DNA [ph] over the last few years we don't have a lot of customers that were either underwritten or placed into harm based on some of our activities.
So I think that the current actions that as Nancy asked about the foreclosure review we're all having independent reviews of the last couple of years of our modification or foreclosures.
I think they will be deemed to be quite positive and quite good.
If there's any remuneration it will be small and if there's a large fund of money based on our market share and the quality of our findings I think it will also be reasonable and something that we can isolate as a one-time event explain it to all of you and move forward.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thanks very much.
We've reached the allotted time for questions.
Are there any closing remarks? Yes thank you all for listening to our first quarter 2011 conference call.
If you do have any follow-up questions or need hard copies of the call presentation or press release please give the Investor Relations Department a call.
Thank you very much.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's U.S.
Bancorp First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to U.S.
Bancorp's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon Eastern Standard Time through Wednesday July 27 at 12:00 Eastern Standard Time.
I will now turn the conference call over to Judy Murphy Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Tiffany and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorp's second quarter 2011 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analysts' schedules are available on our website at www.usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Judy and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I'd like to begin on Page 3 of the presentation and point out the highlights of our second quarter results.
U.S.
Bancorp reported net income of $1 203 000 000 for the second quarter of 2011 or $0.60 per diluted common share.
Earnings were $0.15 higher than the same quarter of last year and $0.08 higher than the first quarter of 2011.
We achieved total net revenue of $4.7 billion this quarter which represented a 3.8% increase over the same quarter of 2010 and over the prior quarter.
Total average loans grew year-over-year by 4% or 3.5% excluding acquisitions.
As expected we achieved modest linked quarter loan growth as total average loans grew by 0.6% over the first quarter or 0.5% adjusted for acquisitions.
Deposit growth was again very strong this quarter with average low-cost deposit balances increasing by 17.1% year-over-year and 3.7% linked quarter.
Excluding acquisitions the year-over-year growth rate remained a strong 12.3% while a linked-quarter growth was 3.5%.
Credit quality also continue to improve as net charge-offs declined by 7.2% and nonperforming assets excluding covered assets declined by 6.2% from the first quarter.
Further the improvement in our credit quality once again supported a reduction in the allowance for credit losses and the company recorded a provision for credit losses that was $175 million less than the net charge-offs in the second quarter.
Our company continues to generate significant capital each quarter and our capital position remained strong with Tier 1 common and Tier 1 capital ratios increasing to 8.4% and 11% respectively at June 30.
Additionally under the anticipated Basel III guidelines the Tier 1 common ratio was 8.1% at quarter end.
Slide 4 tracks our industry-leading performance metrics over the past 5 quarters.
Return on average assets in the second quarter was 1.54% and return on average common equity was 15.9%.
The 5-quarter trends of our net interest margin and our efficiency ratio are shown on the graph on the right-hand side of Slide 4.
This quarter's net interest margin of 3.67% was lower than the same quarter of last year and the prior quarter although slightly stronger than expected.
And Andy will discuss the factors that led to this change in just a few minutes.
Our second quarter efficiency ratio was 51.6% consistent with past quarters and our expectation that our efficiency ratio will remain in the low 50s.
Importantly we achieved positive operating leverage on a year-over-year basis as well as on a linked-quarter basis when we adjust for the gain we recorded in the first quarter of 2011 related to our First Community Bank purchase.
Turning to Slide 5 as I previously noted our capital position remained strong and continues to grow.
Our Tier 1 common ratio under the Basel III guidelines at June 30 was 8.1% well above the 7% Basel III level required in 2019.
Although we have not received the final regulatory guidance as to the amount of capital our company would be required to hold going forward our SIFI buffer we are confident that we can easily meet the new guidelines through internal capital generation allowing us to continue moving forward with our long-term goal of distributing the majority of our earnings or shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.
Accordingly at the very end of the second quarter we began to buy back stock and we expect to continue to repurchase shares through the remainder of the year.
Moving on to Slide 6.
Average total loans outstanding increased by $7.6 million or 4% year-over-year and 3.5% adjusted for acquisitions.
Significantly new loan originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments totaled approximately $44 billion this quarter compared with approximately $35 billion in the second quarter of last year this represents a 25% increase in new activity.
As a result total corporate and commercial commitments outstanding increased by 13.8% year-over-year and a 4.4% linked-quarter growth positioning us for the eventual revival of our customers demand for loans.
Total average deposits increased by $26.1 billion or 14.2% over the same quarter of last year.
Total average deposits grew by $5.1 billion on a linked-quarter basis or 2.5% 2.3% excluding acquisitions with strong growth in Consumer Banking as well as Wholesale Banking and specifically in the national corporate and institutional banking groups.
Turning to Slide 7.
The company reported total net revenue in the second quarter of $4.69 billion.
The increase in revenue year-over-year was driven by earning asset growth strength in our fee-based businesses and organic growth initiatives tempered somewhat by the impact of recent legislative actions.
Turning to Slide 8 and credit quality.
Second quarter total net charge-offs of $747 million were 7.2% lower than the first quarter of 2011.
Nonperforming assets excluding covered assets decreased by $217 million or 6.2%.
On Slide 9 the graph on the left illustrates the continuing improvement in early and late stage delinquencies excluding covered assets.
In fact delinquency rates in all major loan categories were lower than in the previous quarter.
On the right-hand side of Slide 9 the trend in criticized assets is again positive.
Consequently we expect the level of both net charge-offs and nonperforming assets to trend lower again in the third quarter of 2011.
Turning to Slide 10.
You can see that we recorded a provision for credit losses less than total net charge-offs.
Specifically we released $175 million of reserves.
This compares with the provision for credit losses that was less the net charge-offs by $50 million in the first quarter while an incremental provision of $25 million was recorded in the second quarter of last year.
The amount of the reserve release was primarily driven by the improvement in credit quality of the Credit Card Loan portfolios.
Let me now turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Richard.
I will now just take a few minutes to provide you with more details about the results.
I turn your attention to Slide 11 which gives a full view of our second quarter 2011 results compared to the prior quarter and the second quarter of 2010.
Diluted EPS of $0.60 was 33.3% higher than the second quarter of 2010 and 15.4% higher than the prior quarter.
The key drivers of the company's second quarter earnings are detailed on Slide 12.
The $437 million or 57% increase in net income year-over-year was primarily the result of $171 million or 3.8% increase in net revenue and a $567 million increase -- decrease in the provision for credit losses partially offset by a $48 million or 2% increase in noninterest expense year-over-year.
Net income was $157 million or 15% higher on a linked-quarter basis.
$171 million or 3.8% increase in total net revenue and a favorable variance of $183 million in the provision for loan losses more than offset the 4.8% increase in expense quarter-over-quarter.
A summary of the notable items that impact the comparison of our second quarter results to prior periods are detailed on Slide 13.
Items this quarter included net securities losses of $8 million and $175 million reserve release.
The items called out in the first quarter of 2011 were the $46 million FCB gain $5 million in net securities losses and a $50 million reserve release.
Finally the items impacting the second quarter of 2010 are highlighted on Slide 14.
They include $180 million credit to equity that was recorded directly as an increase to net income applicable to common shareholders for the quarter.
The ITS transaction item added $0.05 to earnings per share in the second quarter of 2010.
Turning to Slide 14.
Net interest income increased year-over-year by $135 million or 5.6% primarily due to a $30.1 billion or 12.2% increase in average earning assets and the benefit of strong growth in low-cost deposits.
The increase in average earning assets were driven by expected growth in the securities portfolio as well as a higher cash position of the fed reserve as well as growth in average loans.
The net interest margin of 3.6% was lower than the net interest margin in the same quarter of last year primarily due to the expected increase in lower yielding investment securities and higher cash levels.
On a linked-quarter basis net interest income was higher by $37 million a result of the $3.6 billion increase in average earning assets offset by a 2 basis point decline in net interest margin.
The net interest margin was lower than the prior quarter again due to the expected growth in low-yielding investment securities which impacted the margin by approximately 5 basis points.
Offset somewhat by the positive impact of the lower cash position at the Federal Reserve.
Slide 15 provides you with more detail on the change in average total loans outstanding.
Average total loans grew by $7.6 billion or 4% year-over-year.
Excluding acquisitions average total loans increased by 3.5%.
As you can see from the chart on the left the increase in average store loans was principally driven by strong growth in residential mortgages and total commercial loans which grew by a very strong 8% or 7.8% excluding acquisitions.
This was the second consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in average commercial loans since the second quarter of 2009.
On a linked-quarter basis the 0.6% increase in average loans outstanding or 0.5% excluding acquisitions was driven by increases in commercial loans which grew by 2.8% commercial mortgages and residential real estate lending reflecting a continued modest demand for new loans.
Average consumer loans decreased slightly on a linked-quarter basis as the decline in average credit card home equity and second mortgages and other retail lending were slightly offset by growth in auto leasing and lending.
Moving to Slide 16.
You can see the growth in total deposits over the past 5 quarters.
Average total deposits grew by $26.1 billion or 14.2% year-over-year.
Significantly low-cost core deposits noninterest-bearing interest checking money market and savings grew by 17.1%.
On a linked-quarter basis average deposits increased by 2.5% while our average low-cost deposits increased by 3.7%.
Slide 17 presents in more detail the changes in noninterest income on a year-over-year and linked-quarter basis.
Noninterest income in the second quarter of 2011 was $36 million or 1.7% higher than the second quarter of 2010.
This variance was driven primarily by growth in payments and commercial product revenue as well as favorable variance in ATM processing investment product fees and commissions and retail product revenue which was driven by higher end-of-term gains and a favorable change in net securities losses.
These favorable variances were partially offset by lower deposit service charges which reflected legislative and bank developed pricing changes.
And the impact of the Visa Gain recorded in the second quarter of 2010.
On a linked-quarter basis noninterest income was higher by $134 million or 6.7%.
This favorable variance was primarily the result of seasonally higher payments revenue; deposit service charges and treasury management fees; higher commercial product revenue; higher mortgage banking revenue which increased by $40 million primarily due to the increase in application volume and a favorable change in the MSR valuation; and higher retail product revenue related to lower end-of-term losses.
Slide 18 highlights noninterest expense which was higher year-over-year by $48 million or 2%.
The majority of the increase can be attributed to higher salaries expense due to staffing levels merit increases and acquisitions; higher benefits expense driven by higher retirement and pension cost and staffing levels; and an increase in professional services marketing and business development expense and occupancy primarily related to investment projects and other business expansion activities and long-related compliance costs.
Slightly offsetting these increases was a reduction in other intangible expense due to core run off and lower loan expense and conversion activity.
On a linked-quarter basis noninterest expense was higher by $111 million or 4.8% versus a seasonally lower first quarter expense level.
Finally the tax rate on a taxable equivalent basis was 30.4% in the second quarter of 2011 compared to 29% in the first quarter of 2011 and 25% in the second quarter of 2010.
Slide 19 provides updated detail on the company's mortgage repurchase related expense and the reserve for expected losses on repurchases and make-whole payments.
Repurchase activity for our company including mortgage repurchase volumes and expense is lower than the peer banks due to our conservative credit and underwriting culture as well as the very disciplined loan origination process.
Our company originates conforming loans about 95% of which are sold to GSEs.
Additionally we do not participate in private placement securitization market.
We expect mortgage repurchase activity to continue to moderate downward over the next few quarters.
Our current outstanding repurchases and make-whole payment request balance at June 30 was $123 million.
Finally turning to Slide 20.
We wanted to update you on the impact of recent regulatory change and oversight in our company.
The impact from changes to overdraft policies and pricing or Reg E are now fully reflected in our run rate and will reduce revenue by about $460 million per year.
The impact of Card Act is also reflected in the run rate and is expected to reduce revenue by about $250 million on an annual basis.
Neither of these 2 projections has changed.
However the Federal Reserve issued their final rules establishing a new debit card pricing guidelines late last month as required by the Durbin Amendment.
Under the new pricing we would expect to see a reduction in debit fee revenue of approximately $300 million on a full year basis based on our current portfolio on growth assumption.
The impact will begin in the fourth quarter of this year.
We continue to expect to mitigate approximately 1/3 to 1/2 of the reduction in revenue related to regulatory changes.
By modifying our checking account products and pricing many of the changes which are in process today as well as changes to our debit products going forward.
I will now turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Andy.
And to conclude our formal remarks I'll turn your attention to Slide #21.
The results that were reported today once again demonstrate our company's ability to produce and maintain industry-leading performance in a very challenging environment.
We operate in an industry that continues to face a difficult and increasing complex operating environment including economic headwinds regulatory oversight reputation risk and competitive pressures.
All these factors have and will continue to have an influence and how we allocate resources manage our operations and capitalize on opportunities for our future growth.
However as our results show our company has created momentum by adhering to our disciplined business strategy and by investing through the cycle.
We've invested in our branches and new markets.
In fact this past weekend we successfully completed the integration of the First Community Bank of New Mexico and Arizona branches which we acquired in January.
And further we have invested in technology invested in innovative new products and services and most importantly invested in people.
And the benefits are showing through despite the slow to recover economy are very successful results.
We are the top-rated large bank in the country.
We're growing our balance sheet including loans.
We're increasing revenue and we're managing expenses while we achieve industry-leading performance metrics.
Our business model are prudent risk management and our quality franchise have allowed us to adapt to this changing environment and focus on our future.
We are positioned to win for the benefit of our customers our communities our employees and most importantly our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks Andy Bill and I would now happy to answer any questions from the audience.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Brian Foran of Nomura.
On Durbin I guess 2 questions.
First the new impact of $300 million.
Was the old impact $400 million? And if so I guess why didn't it come down more based on the new fed proposal? You're correct.
The old impact was $400 million.
This reflects a little bit higher growth because it's starting a little later this year and we're looking at 2012 in terms of the impact Brian.
So this represents about a 50% reduction from the level that we expect in 2012.
Got it.
And then on the flip side of Durbin is there any potential benefits to your payments business either from a -- with things like the beginnings of a share shift from debit to credit in spending volumes recently.
And then also on the merchant acquiring side some merchant acquirers based on the way they're set up seem to benefit by not passing through all the reductions.
Some don't.
And can you just remind us whether that's an opportunity for you or whether you'll pass it all through? Yes Brian.
This is Richard.
Those are both correct.
The latter first it's not as big a number as you might think but being one of the largest merchant processors and providers in the country we do have the benefit of assessing exactly where these payments will go and how they'll be allocated back down to the merchant.
So there is some pickup there it's not substantial but it's included in that number that Andy gave you.
And furthermore as you've seen more and more of the customers' reticence to accept certain debit fees and certain projected charges that may be forthcoming which we're watching very closely and not implementing it at anytime yet.
We do think that there will be a shift to people using their credit cards more often particularly for the rewards and for those who typically pay out their cards every month and don't revolve balances any way.
So on both counts you're right.
The former we've included in our thinking and the latter is an opportunity we haven't assessed yet.
If I could sneak a last one in.
The noninterest-bearing deposits on an end-of-period basis the growth was pretty substantial and much higher than the industry.
Is that -- can you just remind us if there's something seasonal or temporary or why that was up so much? Brian this is Andy.
We saw a strong growth in both our wholesale businesses our -- both commercial and large corporate companies as well as our trust businesses.
And I would perhaps say that it's a little unusual versus other peer banks.
We have a large corporate trust business that generates a lot of DD&amp;A and they did -- they had a very strong quarter.
Brian it's Richard.
I just want to add to that.
We use this word this phrase awfully often flight to quality.
But it shows up really really strongly at times like this where corporate CFOs CEOs municipality treasurers and things they do value the ratings and having the highest ratings it becomes a benefit that often we can't even assess until the quarter is over to see where people want to place their money under the safety and soundness of uninsured levels.
So we're enjoying some benefit to that as well and I think we'll continue to see that.
Your next question is from the line of Jon Arfstrom of RBC Capital.
LLC</strong> Question on the reserve release.
You obviously made a bigger statement this quarter than you have in prior quarters.
And curious if there's any other categories that are potentially getting better faster than you expected.
And then also curious how we should think about the loan loss provision going forward.
I guess I see more room for this level of reserve release but just curious what your thoughts are.
Yes.
Let me take it first.
I'll hand it over to Bill for the details.
This is Richard.
I've said long ago that any reserve release will be a mistake having gone and putting in too much and that's just because the math is the math.
And now you're seeing that our card portfolios particularly and other areas are improving quite substantially.
I think for the good of this industry I'm going to make a plea here that we evaluate what will eventually become the risk of unintended consequences where banks are going to find their credit quality over swinging as the pendulum does.
And becoming so particularly good that if we aren't allowed to create some over the time allocations for -- unallocations for loan loss reserves we're going to find ourselves reversing all loan provisions and then building in back when the cycle starts to build again.
So we're not to that point yet.
Our charge-offs a little over 1.5% are still 50 basis points ahead of where we think we'll be over the cycle at 1%.
But I will predict for you that we'll probably fall below 1% before we settle there and reserve releases will continue.
But I would hope through a point where we're allowed to keep some of that for over the cycle preparation for learning our lessons of pro-cyclicality during this last period.
As it relates to more than credit card we are seeing benefits.
There's some lumpy and some more predictable portfolio.
And I'll ask Bill to answer those for you.
Yes Jon.
So I mean we did see a solid improvement across all portfolios this quarter.
So the go-forward look is positive.
Cards again they exceed our expectations.
It may do that again if it continues to improve.
The other notable areas just -- the C&amp;I portfolio.
The position of the corporate customers the middle market customers continues to be one of real strength and resiliency.
So that's probably another area where it's a better-than-positive outlook.
And if you think about it this is for everybody the duration of this recession despite somebody was saying it was over 7 quarters ago it's not.
And the length of this duration of this recession has allowed banks to be very careful for a long time.
And in accordance with that there are a number of lines that -- who haven't been originated now in years that would otherwise been risky.
And many customers in their category of unsecured lending have been charged off and haven't been brought back into the market.
So I think you're going to continue to see these numbers come down faster than they moved up and that's my earlier point that maybe we're kind of preparing for it particularly overswing of some very very good numbers in the next couple of quarters.
The next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Couple of questions on the balance sheet.
First are you pretty much done with the liquidity changes that you've been making over the past couple of quarters or is there any more to do there? Betsy we entered the quarter at $65 billion on our securities portfolio we would expect to end the year at $70 billion.
So we have about $5 billion more to expect over the next 2 quarters.
Okay.
And then the loan-to-deposit ratio 95%.
I mean we just went through a part of that as a function of corporate deposits going up.
How do you think about where that loan to deposit ratio should be? Is 95% the right level given what might be flight to quality deposits or would you seek to bring that back up over time as good quality credits emerge to 100%? Well first Betsy we don't have a target for that.
I mean we have ample liquidity on the balance sheet.
We have ample ability to generate more funding if we need to so we don't really have a target for a loan-to-deposit ratio.
What that is really is a function of the great flight to quality we're seeing on the deposit side of the balance sheet and the somewhat slower loan demand that we're seeing in the marketplace overall.
And what we want to do is gain customers on both sides of the balance sheet both loans and deposits and that's really how we target our business objectives not any specific ratio.
Then the evidence is in our actions.
If you look at our commitments they're way up.
We continue to say that our utilization is flat and it remains flat because our commitments are up more than people are using what they have.
But we are well and intending -- we will make as many good loans as we can make.
And this bank was actually reversed many years ago.
Our loan-to-deposit ratio wasn't even close to this.
It's just as a result of what we think is good management of the balance sheet eventually the margin becomes a result of that and the loan-to-deposit ratio becomes a result of that.
But we really wanted to play this good deposits and the good loans and we're making a lot of commitments.
And so I think we're positioned when people decided to use it and you'll look at that as evidence of the fact that we're not setting any barriers or guideposts around loan to deposit.
Then just lastly on the commercial side obviously loans grew nicely in the quarter.
Can you just talk about degree to which stuff coming from new clients versus existing lines? Yes I can.
This is Richard.
First of all I'm happy to report our C&amp;I growth is all the way from down to small business traditional small business lines and loans include SBA it includes small ticket leasing and then all through the C&amp;I more traditional space.
Particularly our best growth in the last quarter came from asset-based Lending healthcare and government banking.
Those are all areas that have momentum and continue to show that.
The rest of the general growth came from those areas that are boosted by M&amp;A activity or some tangent to something in that area.
And our growing commitments which are evidenced through the reports include a higher position in each of the loan-syndicated deals that you will see over time.
Both in our loan and high-grade fixed income lead tables we continue to move up.
We've been able to use the leverage of our new corporate bank to put ourselves in much higher positions and syndicated deals.
And now we're starting the lead transactions lead left and lead right and starting to make a difference in being able to not only outsource but actually be the predominant main provider for virtually everything for our larger customers.
So it's a good story on C&amp;I.
Our loan average balances as we reported were up 0.6% linked quarter 0.5% adjusted for acquisitions.
But it was actually 0.9% end of period -- end-of-period linked quarter.
So we see a little bit of momentum in the second half of the second quarter which is the opposite of what we saw 90 days ago when we've said the second half of the first quarter was slowing.
We're not courageous enough to make that a trend yet but we are suggesting that it's got a favorable bias.
And we continue to think our loan growth will be at the levels we've seen before and hopefully start to move a little bit more.
And net new is at the same profitability level up down sideways? As I talked about Betsy I would say versus 3 or 4 quarters ago it's down perhaps 25 to 30 basis points versus where we were beginning this cycle.
It's actually still up against that and still very profitable transactions.
And you can see from our loan overall loan rates and our deposit rates that we're still -- that the margin overall is flattish.
The only reason we were down for the quarter is because of the securities portfolio and that was actually down more than what we have reported.
So our margin is hanging in there pretty flat.
Your next question is from the line of Chris Kotowski of Oppenheimer.
I'd like to dive into the loan growth questions a little bit more and on Page 9 of the press release.
I guess first of all both for you and for the industry as a whole if you look at the categories that are under the most pressure it's construction and development commercial real estate and home equity mortgages.
And those are the numbers where I thought we'd see it but with the fed numbers coming down constantly.
And is there a bottom there in your mind at which those portfolios stop growing or is that still a long way off? Well I'll take the construction and development first.
I mean there is -- ours continues to decline.
There is some run-off there as the projects that started 2 3 years ago come to fruition get online and find permanent financing.
But we have seen some -- there's actually pretty good volume in multifamily.
Still limited in residential.
There's also been a lot of build-to-suit.
So it's probably nearing bottom of the runoff at least for our portfolio.
But we have seen some uptick in the commercial mortgage or the stabilized lines.
So on a mixed basis we're probably 6 to 9 months away from that really moving around.
Home Equity we've been steady as she goes just through originating it out through our branches.
Every quarter we originate about the same amount of the same high-quality home equity.
So that's been a good steady business for us.
Residential mortgages and terms again that has been a strong area of origination for what we put on our balance sheet with the jumbled mortgage market and historically low rates.
So we've seen good demand in those areas.
Okay.
And then the lease financing as opposed to commercial loans is running down.
Why is that? There was a little bit of some older small ticket portfolios that we ran off.
But other than that if you take that out it's -- overall the equipment finance area is doing very well.
Chris it's really more aligned with traditional C&amp;I lending.
Okay.
And then just on the credit card I mean it's small numbers but compared to the fed loan numbers this quarter your portfolio ran down a bit more than the industry.
I would have expected you to be gaining share or is there a story there? This is Richard.
Our year-over-year growth is down about 2%.
And that's a little bit better than the average of the larger portfolios we compare ourselves to.
More importantly compared to kind of the peak when each of the portfolios are a much higher a couple of years ago.
We're only down 3% and the industry is down more like 20%.
So while one quarter a trend doesn't make I think you'll find that we're one of the few shops that are pretty close to our peak level because we either bought or acquired portfolios who continue to originate at levels that we didn't have to change because we weren't underwriting at levels we couldn't sustain before.
So I wouldn't read into it.
In fact I would say we are probably a little better based on our calcs in the quarter but it did shrink a bit.
And that's a reflection of some of the final venality of the charge-offs finally going away.
And our reticence to get into the game of trying to outprice ourselves for the next new customer.
We're not going to do that.
We don't think we have to and we want to make sure that our growth is the same quality as the portfolio so we're not going to add some blips and origination that won't be sustainable.
Otherwise we're actually quite satisfied.
And for us it's a pretty big portfolio based on our total asset size.
So it's a business we like a lot and we're putting a lot of energy into it and hopefully going to see some results over the recovery of the economy in the next year or 2.
Fair enough.
And actually while we're on the credit card business I guess there are considerable news -- press stories about HSBC's portfolio being available for sale and other portfolios potentially being on sale available for sale.
Is that a business that you would consider growing by acquisition? I won't talk about any specific portfolio but in credit cards or anything you won't see us pick up a portfolio that's bigger than we are or big enough to change what we are in that category.
There's a lot of commercial real estate portfolios out there as well.
And I don't want to change the composition of what you all expect from us.
I don't want to acquire somebody else's business no matter what the price if it's going to change the way we operate or the way we manage the balance sheet.
So anything really big as it compares to our size we're not going to do.
If it's marginal in terms of size if it's opportune because it's exactly what we do and it's a chance we can't pass then we might take a look.
And we'll look at anything.
I've said this before where in virtually every due diligence that has any possibility of making sense.
But nothing of substantial size where you see coming into our portfolio to change the way our mix or our composition looks.
Your next question is from the line of Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
If I could just drill down a bit into the capital deployment areas -- things.
You talked about buying back some stock in the later part of the second quarter and expectations for buyback for the remainder of the year.
Just remind us of what you have the ability to do right now and kind of what your thought process is on buyback looking beyond the next couple of quarters.
Sure Matt this is Andy.
So we have an authorization as you know for this year 50 million shares.
We started buying back very late in the second quarter as we approach that 8% number in terms of that Tier 1 common Basel III.
About 2.5 million shares late in the second quarter.
You should expect us to continue that buyback as we move forward.
Were still waiting on the final SIFI buffer.
But as we talked about we're starting at 8.1%.
We're generating 30 to 40 basis points a quarter.
So whatever that SIFI buffer is we feel comfortable we've been able to achieve it and continue to distribute at capital for the remainder of this year and in going to next year.
And from the perspective of our objectives from a capital deployment standpoint and we've talked about this we would over the time frame expect to distribute 30% to 40% of our range in form of dividends and 30% to 40% in terms of buybacks so you get to that 60% to 80%.
But just as we think about the next few quarters here the dividend is what it is the balance sheet growth obviously is something that's the main focus.
And then absent deals try to manage that 8% Tier 1 common or if it ends up being 8.25% 8.5% whatever it is but we should think about whatever over 8% will go towards buyback? Yes.
Depending upon whatever the final SIFI buffer is which we hope to get some more guidance there.
But that would be the correct way to think about it.
Okay.
And then what are other capital deployment opportunities I think you have about $4 billion of trust.
I believe half of them are either callable now or at some point this year irrespective of any changes out of a -- from a regulatory point of view.
What's the thought process in terms of retiring some of that given all the deposit growth you had and strong funding overall? You're right.
Now we have $3.3 billion of trust-preferred.
Some of it is already callable.
You should expect us to act on those securities over the next year.
Some of that could happen this year some next year.
I would say of the $3.3 billion $2.2 billion have replacement capital covenants so that would also perhaps entail some sort of issuance at the same time.
But we will manage to those numbers and manage those securities over the next year or so.
Okay.
And then just separately I've asked you a lot about operating leverage the last few quarters.
It was positive nicely year-over-year or slightly positive quarter-to-quarter.
I can appreciate any given quarter there could be some noise and we do have the Durbin impact to digest but how do you think operating levels will trend going forward from here? You're right.
Any quarter any particular quarter could have some noise.
But as we talked about we expected positive operating leverage in the second quarter we achieved it.
We're very focused on both the revenue and the expense side of the equation.
And we're going to manage expense like we always do in conjunction with what we see from the revenue side.
So that's the way we focus and that's the way we manage the balance sheet and the income statement.
So targeting positive? Yes.
This is Richard.
We are targeting positive.
That's the way we -- that's how you grow the company.
And we are well aware that our revenue has been strong enough to account for these last 3 or 4 years.
We have really invested in the company.
We're real proud of that.
As the world continues to be uncertain we continue to be watchful on our expenses.
And the 51.6% we don't need to have a campaign or a program to watch our expenses we do it every day.
But we are continuing to watch them every day and you can well bet that until we see sustainable foreseeable growth in revenue.
We're going to tend to be very careful on our expenses and be very watchful.
So that's one thing you don't have to worry about with this company.
Your next question is from the line of Paul Miller of FBR Capital Markets.
Going back to loan growth.
And I know you have a lot of questions on it but we had a lot of banks release earnings already.
And it seems to be some banks that can really generate some loans and other banks that are really talking sour on loan growth with a couple of banks saying "Don't expect loan growth for the rest of the year." I just want to know I mean why the tale of the 2 different institutions? Because a lot of this is driven by the macro part of growth of GDP.
Some of it utilization and relationships.
But why are we seeing different I guess outlooks out there for loan growth from different institutions? I don't know if you can answer that or not.
Yes.
This is Richard.
Happy to answer it.
Couple of things it's a tale of 2 stories like you said.
But first our story goes back 3 years ago when we started investing on kind of the barbell of the loan spectrum.
We brought in a number of new small business lenders and originators and changed the way our branch managers become the center of small business activities and that is showing up in great form.
Just our annualized loan growth in small business if you go down and drill down it's about 10.6% small business card is like 19%.
So we're getting in on that.
And then the same 3 years ago we started introducing to all of you this corporate bank that we're building out.
And it wasn't just for the sake of a having a few more people on the East Coast it was to really become a full service top-flight corporate bank that can provide virtually everything our customers need.
And that happened too Paul.
So we are getting not only more customers we're getting a lot more invitations to the party that earlier in the call we're being now moved up to the top tier of many of these opportunities for both the line and for the capital markets activity number one.
Number two is we don't have anything running off that we can't replace.
So as you know that's probably a 4- or 5-year old story but it really is important that we just simply haven't had to change any business models from the beginning to the end of this downturn because we simply weren't doing things we could sustain over the course of that more difficult period and I think that helps.
You will see that we don't have a run off portfolio virtually anywhere and we don't have any business plan that we wish we weren't in or that are atrophying.
I think those 2 things our investments coming to fruition and the lack of having to change the continuity that we created years ago are probably the 2 best reasons our story might resonated differently.
I can't speak for the whole industry but I think that's probably is a good insight.
And then on loan pricing I think a couple of individuals ask about the profitability of these loans because what we've seen -- what a lot of people have sat and told us that there's a lot of price competition that some banks don't want to chase down.
I mean -- but it seems like they've built the lenders out there.
But are you competing on price or is that something that you feel comfortable competing on? No.
We are being competitive on price but I will tell you the margins are still very profitable.
As I mentioned before perhaps down 25 or 30 basis points but what we're talking about is on wholesale side and the middle-market side.
A 250 spread now is somewhere around 220 so still much above -- well above where it was in 2006 early 2007.
So they're still very profitable deals.
And deals that we are very happy and proud.
We won't compete on price because with the other levers competing on underwriting we won't do that ever.
So price is really very important to us and I don't think based on our efficiency ratio if anybody could catch up with the quality of the deal is good.
And if there's a relationship attached to it.
We won't go after a loan individually anymore.
Those are the old days there's no relationship in that.
Your next question is from the line of Ed Najarian of ISI Group.
Just 2 quick questions maybe so that we can get a little more context on how you're thinking about capital and reserves over the long term.
As you think about getting to normalize credit losses say by 2013 or maybe as you indicated even slightly sooner than that where would you be willing to take the reserve to loan ratio to in that environment? I think if we can get that sense we can get a good sense of how you're thinking about reserve recapture.
Well I'll take a stab of that Ed.
I mean I've talked about that in the past and what I've said is there was in the old days there was sort of a benchmark of industry benchmark of about 1.5% reserve-to-loan ratio.
But even under the rules that are in existence today there's more things that are under this 114 accounting methodology which basically says if you have any kind of restructured loan you're going to look beyond the current period look more of a lifetime loss.
So with the issues in the residential mortgage business in terms of all the restructuring banks are doing that's just going to raise whatever kind of through the cycle reserve level banks go to.
So I think you're going to be north of 2%.
It's kind of an industry thing.
I don't want to comment specifically on our bank on a long-term basis but that's how I think about it.
So north of 2% of the industry and your -- well you just said you don't want to comment specifically but it seems...
Here's the other deal.
This is in fact my only point.
Every time you make a decision on what your loan reserves will end up based on actions of either add or taking away your auditors and your regulators have to apply them.
And so far we have never come across where we've got any debates on whether or not we are at the right place.
But I think we're going to test the nettle of that whole theory whichever number you want to talk about the is no single one ratio by the way.
It has never been deemed as the most important.
But I think that we're all going to need to collect our thoughts and work with the accounting FASB and everybody else to decide what's the right over the cycle kind of loan losses that we want so we don't visit a SunTrust 1998 SEC issue again.
And recognize that banking is volatile.
There's some cyclicality to it.
And basically now it's stress testing.
We offer pretty good idea and have overseers to decide what is the reasonable over the term kind of loan loss necessary level.
And I think we should all work toward that and find an answer that's not there today so your question can be answered a bit differently.
But that's one of the guidelines we haven't created yet through the course of this downturn.
We for one are going to work to see if we can help inform that outcome.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up.
I mean obviously the credit quality is continuing to improve.
We're getting closer to this sort of normalized environment.
How quickly do you think you can get up to that? And your capital ratios are building how quickly you think you can get the bank to that 30% to 40% dividend payout ratio that you're targeting? Is that next year? Is that 2013 or is it longer out? I don't know.
But I do know this it's not just -- it's both it's 30% to 40% on dividend payback and 30% to 40% on buybacks.
Any combination of those up to 60% to 80%.
I have a goal of getting there as soon as I can.
I think first and foremost we have an annual stress test protocol now which we will respect and move through.
And we all don't know whether or not that's going to become more often than annual.
But at least annually we'll put in our forecast.
We'll stress test the company and we'll submit our request continue more buybacks and continue higher dividend.
And over the course if it was left to our own device we'd probably get there sooner than I'm sure what the rules will be under our stress test scenario that says "But what if this happens and we need to withhold certain actions until we're certain that we're beyond this." So for us I think it's multi-quarter but it's not and it's not like half decade.
I mean we're just going to get there as soon as we can and based on where I think we are plus what I think our SIFI might be I think we're going to get there very quickly and we're going to seek permission to be among the first to move forward on both of those to get closer and closer to our final payout.
But I'd love to take this if I knew.
I wouldn't just withhold it from you I'd be taking other actions with certainty but right now we're just going to follow the rules and keep pushing to get as much as we can given our good performance.
Your next question is from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just one question on net interest margin last quarter you'd given some guidance that it came in much better largely the benefit of all the great excess deposit growth that you referred to earlier.
I'm just wondering if you can put into context again the additional liquidity build that you're expecting to add and thoughts on how the margin can track or within that just your puts and takes.
Sure Ken.
So we were down 2 basis points 369 to 367 quarter 1 to quarter 2.
If you think about the 2 basis points we were down 5 basis points because of the $5 billion additional securities portfolio purchases which is what we expected.
The cash flows of the Fed however went down from about $8.5 billion to about $6.5 billion so that helped us by 2 basis points.
And everything else was better by about 1 basis point.
So you think about the fact that we expect to add another $5 billion or so in the second half the year that implies another 5 basis points in the second half of the year of decline.
I'm not going to assume anything on cash levels or deposits but all other things being equal we have a slight decline and then perhaps a positive bias on our core a few basis points.
And that's the way we describe it.
So you just said flattish.
Inc.</strong> Right.
So core is flattish because of the combination of still good loan growth and good low-core deposit growth.
Right.
Our deposit pricing and our loan pricing has helped us.
The net of those 2 is about a 1 basis point favorable and the cash position is about 2 and the securities was about 5 negative.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Got it.
Next I want to follow-up just on credit and commitments.
You mentioned that you're growing commitments a lot.
I'm just wondering what's going on the pricing side of commitments.
Are you changing the way you're pricing for commitments and is that showing up in results? And the second part of that is just are your corporate customers changing the way they view commitments in terms of fees are going up or are they just downsizing when they're renewing? I wouldn't say they're downsizing when they're renewing.
I mean I think there's more awareness in the banking industry of the cost of having the unfunded commitment out there.
So I think that's been a nice balance of course our customers wanting lower pricing.
So we've seen the commitment pricing hang in there pretty well.
Your next question is from the line of Nancy Bush of NAB Research LLC.
Richard a question for you.
I mean your results have been quite strong this quarter and as you said you're building momentum and sort of a strengthening pattern of earnings and that's generally true throughout the major banks with 1 or 2 notable exceptions.
There just seems to be a bit of a disconnect from what's going on and what we're hearing about the economy.
And clearly part of what you're achieving and what your peer banks are achieving is sort of a recovery from the crisis.
But how long can the banks and the economy stay disconnected? And are your earnings indicating that there's a better economy out there than we're seeing? Yes that's a good question Nancy.
All of them actually.
I would say first of all my belief is that this economy will eventually come back and it will be corporate led not consumer led which is quite unusual.
And I actually think that is a reflection what you're seeing in the strong banks balance sheet.
For instance in the recessions past typically the consumer is the first to blink so they can't withhold making expenditures doing things because they had basically the home equity they have the housing values they had certain other things that they were clear about.
And that's not present this time.
But we've gone longer and longer and longer than anyone thought from both the corporate and the consumer side of the balance sheet for people holding on and making things last until they can't finally go forward on growth.
And I think the corporations are starting to build for that.
The commitment line of usage is a reflection of when that finally happens.
But the fact that they're building it up and at a cost says that they're getting ready to move when there's an opportunity.
I actually think that at the highest level that this corporations will actually reduce their pricing to finally attract the consumer into the game and that will all start to create the recovery we're looking for whenever it occurs.
So first of all our balance sheets look like just the economy people are saving like crazy.
They don't know what to do with their money but it's safer here than anywhere else especially given certain FDIC guarantees and things.
There is nowhere better to put it unless it's a stock market and that's iffy and lumpy.
So I think our balance sheet growing makes sense.
I think at a low interest rates you'll people not getting very clever on how they invest their money because there's not a lot of choices.
So that make sense primarily in low interest deposit or some form of offset to service charges.
And then I do think that the small businesses are starting to move forward where they can get some traction.
The corporations are starting to building their lines.
And it's just the basic consumer that's withholding because there's no other alternative for them.
Their credit card is more important to them than their house.
And housing may or may not come back for quite some time.
So I don't think we're out of order with that.
How long banks can put up with this? If it's forever we're out of business because we don't make money if we don't deploy deposits into some form of loans or lines.
But we all know that that's not going to be the case.
So it's a matter of just who can hang on the longest.
And in our case we're blessed with this corporate trust and payments business which creates this wonderful diversification of revenue that isn't based on balance sheet and isn't relying wholly on loans.
So those of us that have diversified earnings and strong customer base I think can hold on for quite a while longer and still make money until which time it comes back.
And I'm not Pollyanna.
As you know I'm quite realistic.
But I think it takes another year or 2 for the economy to start to kick in the corporates will start first and the consumers will follow.
Just one add-on question to that.
You bring up the point that the credit card is now more important than the house.
Have you modified your plans for the growth of the mortgage business in response to what seems to be a growing aversion to homeownership? Not yet.
And I say not yet meaning that we're going to do it but they were not sure what we're going to do.
I mean we're now the sixth largest mortgage provider origination and servicing.
By the way 6 is a really good place don't you think? And so for us we're going to wait and see on a lot of issues.
We have first to wait and see what the happens with the AG settlement with the large 5 servicers.
Not so much the financial fees which for us will be on any measure less than 2% and something we can handle.
But more of what are the long-term rules of servicing.
Number two we need to understand what the rules are going to be for modifications and foreclosures.
If you think about it Nancy if we're told that in the future a high-quality customer for origination and servicing purposes is still a very profitable activity we'll do it.
But if someone tells me that the minute they flip into some form of risk or modification or foreclosure the cost of compliance and the requirements of going through all kinds of specific steps becomes so inordinately expensive we're all just going to underwrite at a much higher level and make sure we don't have any of those modified customers.
And therein lies perhaps one of the risks of slowing down the availability and affordability of housing.
Never mind QRMs is something else we need to worry about because they may be a bit too pure in their definition.
And never mind the minute rates do go up and they will eventually home affordability plummets very quickly it's exponential.
So I do think we have a risk here the mortgages outside of high high quality become less profitable to the banks and I think we're all just going to have to assess what level of volume we want in that respect.
But I'll tell you that mortgages are a great core product.
They always will be.
And people who have a mortgage with you who you can trust you will let you have the rest of their business and that's what we're staying in the game for.
So we'll stay where we are.
We'll work quickly to manage through the current uncertainties and we'll wait to see what comes out and we'll make our decision after that.
Your next question is from the line of Marty Mosby of Guggenheim Partners.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask a little bit about the regulatory changes and we're talking about the unfavorable impact that if you add the 3 items together it's about $1 billion.
And we're now kind of -- have kind of finalized all the uncertainty so we know what to expect.
And now we can start to move towards mitigating some of those issues.
I was just wondering how do we kind of see that rolling out if we're talking about a $300 million to $500 million improvement over time to be able to mitigate some of those regulatory impacts.
Well first we're already doing some of our mitigating actions by the way we have reconstructed our checking products.
We have a product called Checking With Choice where customers can provide other business that they have with us as alternatives to withhold any kind of fee payment.
In fact 85% of our customers don't pay any service charge on checking but they brought a lot more business to us and that's happening around the system.
But those who do pay have no other opportunities but to create some service charge.
And that's part of the mitigation on the checking product.
However there's another piece that will come in the form of either cost to merchants over the course of time as we understand how to unbundle what the Durbin Amendment really means and the cost of providing fraud and immediate guarantees and immediate credit and all of that.
And we also haven't really touched the debit product yet.
We're not going to.
Debit rewards will continue to be something we don't provide going forward as we haven't for the last 90 days.
But in terms of creating a cost per debit capability we're not at all at that place.
We're going to let others go first and we'll see what comes up.
And I don't think the consumers going to really want that.
So Marty that's why we say 30% to 50%.
We probably have our hand on 30% mitigation and we have a just big kind of white board for the next 20% which we're going to take a little while to decide and make a very thoughtful division over the course of probably the next 3 to 4 quarters.
So 30% in the books the other 20% is probably 6 to 9 months away.
LLC</strong> And I guess as we see that roll forward what we would see is that -- because we're talking about the way that these activities occur within the products.
It will be kind of cent by cent kind of rolling in over probably an 18-month period 24-month period.
I would say it would be shorter than that Marty.
I would say in the next year.
Your next question is from the line of Mike Mayo of CLSA.
Now that we know the SIFI premium 250 basis points for the biggest banks I guess you don't know your exact SIFI premium.
Could that hold you back from doing a large acquisition because now you have not only the cost of the acquisition but the potential cost of having to hold higher capital levels? No.
I mean a large acquisition will be made first and foremost on the merits of whether it's good for us.
It needs to be something that meets all of our thresholds for profitability and accretion.
And the fact that Mike if it's a really good deal and we have to raise capital we would do it with the expectations that the market would want it enough to celebrate our decision and raise capital with pretty high certainty.
The SIFI itself will have no bearing at all on how we feel about acquisition.
But you also know that that bar as I said is pretty high for us.
And if nothing comes along that meets that bar then it won't matter anyway.
And if they do it will be such a good deal you all want for it.
On the SIFI side we don't know where we'll fall between and up to 2.5 basis points but we do believe that based on the tiering that we've heard about and all the intelligence we can gather we're probably looking at a 0.75 to maybe 1.25 kind of a SIFI surcharge.
And if that's the case then we're getting close to that already.
Plus a buffer that Andy and I along said we would put on top of that for this company it's probably 50 basis points.
So once we get that number we can fill in all the blanks and we're ready to roll.
And then switching gears back to loan growth credit card loans period end are up 1.5% when the industry is down 2% to 4%.
So what are you doing differently in credit cards that's allowing for growth? Is it a new product? Are you targeting certain regions? Are you taking some more risk which maybe it makes sense since credit's getting so much better? Yes.
I'll take that.
I mean we grew through the cycle we didn't change our underwriting.
We grew through the cycle.
Most of our major competitors I mean if you look at what they did over the past 2 3 years their balance have declined significantly.
So they're running off or charging off parts of their business initiatives that they had from prior to the recession.
But we did not have to do that.
So that's the main difference.
Yes.
So Mike it's pretty much just having a steady core of customers that aren't leaving.
We also have -- we do have some pretty good like our FlexPerks program which we created a couple of years ago when we launched the Northwest Airlines card it's a remarkable program It gets recognized by Kiplinger and others.
It's among the best.
So we're in the game with a really good product and a lot of our underwriting now is coming from customers to the branches which creates a very high-quality customer with a lot of stickiness to it.
So for us we expected it to be that.
In fact the fact that it shrinks and all even over an average period surprises us because we really haven't seen that over the course of this whole recession.
What percent comes through the branches? I'm going to say the origination is probably 20% 25% for the branches.
The rest would come through more of the traditional ways.
But you don't see us in your mailbox a lot because we're pretty selective on how we go after our customers in different co-branded ways and in some cases direct mail but it's very targeted.
And then last question just going back to commercial loan growth.
I mean 14% annualized commercial loan growth which is -- I guess it's good as long as it's of good quality.
So I guess what's the loan utilization rate? I'm sorry if I missed it -- in the second quarter versus the first? It's down 50 basis points from 25 to 24.5.
First quarter average to second quarter average.
Remember we just look at the C&amp;I piece.
We don't have revolving lines of credit card or leases and things like that.
So this is really market share gains? You talked about in the last 3 years that you're expanding beyond your branch footprint for more national loans you mentioned asset base healthcare government banking.
So this is -- is that a fair way to characterize it's market share gains more lines more customers? Bingo.
Right.
And Mike it's important to note when I talk about the utilization going down 0.5% underlying that is a utilization or a commitment increase of 4.4%.
So really what happened was commitments grew tremendously and loan volume grew a little bit less than that but still grew well.
That's right.
I just said bingo because I want to see it in the transcript.
And then of the $47 billion of commercial loans how much of that would be syndicated loans? I'd say about 20% 25%.
And what would that percentage have been a year ago? Because it seems like you're ramping that up some.
I don't think it would be substantially low.
Is it fair to characterize your commercial loan growth as having been the largest part through syndicated loans? Some of that but not necessarily.
I mean...
In fact you said the same percentage a year ago it's really not.
Syndicated maybe hold levels are bigger it doesn't mean that we get the outstanding on it.
So we are probably participating at higher levels.
But a lot of this is brand new customers that are -- I just can't tell you what it's like to be invited into a 100-year-old credit that we've never been a part of.
And they bring you in and they let you all the way in.
It's really what we're doing in a lot of them.
What our typical hold levels these days? Well I'm not going to disclose that.
But I mean it varies by the asset quality of the company and by the amount of relationship business we get.
I guess just to close this whole discussion about commercial loan growth and syndicated loans you talked about being a bigger player in the more corporate lending segment.
Just what your sales pitch to get business if you're competing against say a money-center bank like JPMorgan or a foreign bank like Deutsche Bank or let's say a brokerage firm like Goldman Sachs.
And now here's U.S.
Bancorp at the table saying give us your corporate business with all the bells and whistles.
Why choose U.S.
Bancorp versus those other competitors? Number one is because our ratings right? That really does weigh heavily.
We open the door with the ratings.
Then many of our employees out of footprint came from another really really good bank and they had relationships with customers who they now under all the right legal approaches have now welcomed them to their new bank which is us.
So it's takes a lot of relationship selling as well.
And then finally we've been with customers for a long time but we've never had the capital market capability which we can now come back to them and say we'd like to be more engaged in this 25-year relationship by being the bank that helps you with you all of your other offerings.
And in accordance with that we'd like to talk to you about our corporate payments which a lot of our peers don't have and some of the transactional businesses that we've introduced over the many years even corporate trust.
So Mike for us it starts with the ratings that moves to relationship and last and finally new team on the block and a lot of banks have said well our customers have said I know I need more than 1 or 2 banks in my credit because I learned that lesson.
I want to look at ones that would be around for a long time and they can check our references and they'll find out customers we've had over the cycle.
We didn't change the rules.
We didn't walk away and we didn't make it harder for them when it might have been easy for us to leverage a little bit more.
I think those references get called out and we get called back.
Your final question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.
Two quick things.
I guess the first is overnight the Basel committee actually put out their SIFI buffer on a global basis.
And what I found interesting was that probably only 2 of the 5 criteria would likely apply to you in a significant way.
So the question is I don't know if you have had any discussions with the Fed as to how they are likely to apply the criteria because it would seem based upon that you shouldn't be overly worried being anywhere towards the upper end of any ranges anyway.
Right.
So we don't have the international exposure.
I would say our interconnectedness is limited.
You're absolutely right.
Size we're certainly well below the top 4 banks so that's why Richard mentioned that the global is at 1 to 250 we would expect to be somewhere at the low end of that if not below that level.
Right.
So I guess the follow-up to that is that it doesn't seem like you need to -- I mean do you really need to wait until you get the precise number for those capital actions? Yes you do.
Because first of all we're just a little tiny bank from Bloomington Minnesota just remember that.
The stress test is a model and the model requires us to fill in all of the blanks.
And so this will be one step a blank that everyone needs to fill in in order to move forward with their capital action in the CCAR reports.
So we're all hopeful that we'll have some clarity around that when we introduce the second annual input in late fall and get our results in early winter.
Got it.
The second thing is you gave some clarity on your thoughts on Durbin what you're going to do and what you're not going to do.
Do you think you have something of an advantage because of the payments business the ability to as opposed to the stick maybe a little bit of a carrot in terms of offering people other payments products? Is that -- can you talk about that a little bit? Well the ability to offer the full service set certainly is something that is beneficial.
The fact that we have the merchant side of the equation as well as the issuance side is also a positive for us.
And as Richard said we're going to be very thoughtful the way we rollout any changes thinking about the relationship.
Yes.
It's a net positive.
We just haven't decided exactly what it means yet.
Presenters do you have any closing remarks? This is Richard.
I just want to thank you all for your continued support of our company.
I am quite pleased with this quarter and I think it starts to get pretty close to something more normal.
Our ROE is almost 16%.
Our ROA is 1.5%.
And those are close to numbers we promised we'll get to over the long period.
So while we saw some reserve release we'll eventually replace that with honest to God revenue.
But we're getting very close to something more normal and I hope that recognized by you all.
And I appreciate the fact that you've given us these last few years to kind of reconstruct the company and come out as well as we have.
Thanks for listening and as always if you have any follow-up questions please give me or Sean O'Connor a call.
Thanks.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to U.S.
Bancorp's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; is Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer.
There will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon Eastern Time through Wednesday October 26 12:00 midnight Eastern Time.
I will now turn the conference call over to Judy Murphy Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Tiffany and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorp's third quarter 2011 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analysts' schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that there are forward-looking statements made today during the call and they are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Judy.
And good morning everyone and thank you for joining our call.
I'd like to begin by saying that I'm very proud of our third quarter results.
The company achieved both record earnings and record total net revenue this quarter along with positive operating leverage year-over-year and linked quarter.
And we accomplished these results while facing the headwinds of a very challenging and uncertain economic environment.
I'd like to point out a few of the highlights from our third quarter earnings which are detailed on Page 3 of the presentations.
U.S.
Bank reported record net income of $1 273 000 000 for the third quarter of 2011; $0.64 per diluted common share.
Earnings per share were $0.19 higher than the third quarter of 2010 and $0.04 higher than the prior quarter.
We achieved record total net revenue of $4.8 billion this quarter which was 4.5% higher than the same quarter of 2010 and 2.2% higher than the second quarter of 2011.
Revenue was driven by growth in both net interest income and fee income.
Total average loans grew year-over-year by 5% or 4.5% excluding acquisitions.
And we realized linked quarter total loan growth of 1.7%.
Once again we benefited from strong growth in average low-cost deposits with balances increasing by 23.2% over the third quarter of 2010 and 4.7% over the second quarter of 2011.
Credit quality continued to improve as we posted a decline in net charge-offs of 10.4% and reduction in non-performing assets excluding covered assets of 6.9% on a linked-quarter basis.
Our capital position remained strong as we continue to generate significant capital each quarter through earnings.
Our Tier 1 common equity ratio was 8.5% at September 30 or 8.2% using anticipated Basel III guidelines while the Tier 1 capital ratio ended the quarter at 10.8%.
Finally we repurchased 13 million shares of common stock during the third quarter.
As a result we returned 45% of our earnings to shareholders this quarter in the form of dividends and buybacks.
The 5-quarter trend of our industry-leading performance metrics are shown on the left-hand of Slide 4.
Return on average assets in the third quarter was 1.57%.
And return on average common equity was 16.1% significantly better than the 1.26% and 12.8% respectively that we reported last year.
Our net interest margin and efficiency ratio are shown on the graph on the right side of Slide 4.
As expected this quarter's net interest margin of 3.65% was lower than the same quarter of last year and the prior quarter.
And Andy will discuss the factors that led to this change in a few minutes.
As I mentioned at the start we achieved positive operating leverage on both a year-over-year and linked quarter basis leading to an improvement in our third quarter efficiency ratio.
Our 51.5% efficiency ratio for the third quarter is consistent with our expectation that this ratio will remain in the low 50s going forward.
Turning to Slide 5 as I previously noted our capital position remains strong and continues to grow.
Our Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III guidelines at September 30 was 8.2% well above the 7% Basel III level required in 2019.
We have not yet received final regulatory guidance as to the amount of capital we will be required to hold as a systemically important financial institution or SIFI buffer.
Given our current capital levels however we are confident that we will be able to meet those guidelines through internal capital generation once they are established.
In the meantime we will continue to return capital to our shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks eventually reaching our goal of returning 60% to 80% of our earnings.
Average total loans outstanding increased by $9.7 billion or 5% year-over-year and 4.5% adjusted for acquisitions.
Significantly new loan originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments totaled over $46 billion this quarter compared with approximately $37 billion in the third quarter of last year representing a 25% increase in renewal and new activity.
Specifically total corporate and commercial commitments outstanding increased by 16.8% year-over-year and 5.8% linked quarter indicating we continue to gain customers and market share and we are well positioned to meet the demand for loans once our customers are more confident in investing in their businesses as the economy recovers.
Although you may think of our middle market and large customers when discussing new commitments numbers also include our Small Business lending.
We just announced this week that U.S.
Bank has set a new company record for SBA loan approvals with a total of $630 million for the SBA fiscal year ending September 30.
This represents a 123% year-over-year increase in loan approvals for our company.
And SBA loans are just one piece of the Small Business lending that we do.
In fact our branches grew non-SBA Small Business average loans outstanding by over 12% year-over-year.
Total average deposits increased by $32.7 billion or 17.9% over the same quarter of last year.
Total average deposits grew by $6 billion on a linked-quarter basis or 2.9%.
With strong growth in Corporate Trust Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking over both time periods the customers continue to hold historically high levels of cash viewing our bank as a trusted safe place to turn.
Additionally we've recently published FDIC market share data.
It indicates that our company grew deposits significantly more in the U.S.
markets as a whole.
U.S.
Bank grew deposits 15.8% between June 30 2010 and June 30 2011 compared with the 6.8% growth rate for the total U.S.
market confirming that we have definitely increased our overall deposit market share.
Turning to Slide 7 the company reported record total net revenue in the third quarter of $4.8 billion an increase of 4.5% over the prior year's quarter and 2.2% over the previous quarter.
The growth in revenue can be attributed to both our balance sheet and Fee business lines all of which have benefited from investments and many growth initiatives made throughout the downturn of the past 3 years partially tempered of course by the impact of recent legislative and regulatory actions.
Turning to Slide 8 and credit quality.
Third quarter total net charge-offs declined by 10.4% from the second quarter of 2011 while non-performing assets excluding covered assets decreased by 6.9%.
This marks the sixth consecutive quarter of improvement in both measures.
Turning to Slide 9.
As the graph on the left illustrates early and late stage delinquencies excluding covered assets have continued to improve overall and are actually returning to pre-2008 levels.
On the right-hand side of the slide you can see that the trend in criticized assets was also positive this quarter.
Both of these statistics provide us with assurance that net charge-offs and non-performing assets will trend lower in the fourth quarter.
With those statistics in mind please turn to Slide 10.
You can see that we recorded a provision for credit losses that was 78% of net charge-offs in the third quarter.
This compares with the second quarter when we recorded a provision that was 77% of net charge-offs.
The continued improvement on our credit quality once again supported the reduction in the allowance for credit losses but the amount of the reserve release was $25 million lower than the previous quarter.
The reduction in the amount of the reserve release reflected the fact that the net charge-off levels for several consumer loan categories particularly credit card and auto loans are beginning to stabilize.
The underlying quality of the wholesale loan book however is expected to continue to show incremental improvement in the coming quarters.
I'll now turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Richard.
I'm going to take just a few minutes to discuss some of the details behind our record third quarter results.
Slide 11 gives a full view of our third quarter 2011 compared to the prior quarter and the third quarter of 2010.
Diluted EPS of $0.64 was 42.2% higher than the third quarter of 2010 and 6.7% higher than the prior quarter.
Slide 12 lists the key drivers of the company's third quarter earnings.
The 40.2% increase in net income year-over-year was the result of a 4.5% increase in net revenue and a decrease in the provision for credit losses partially offset by a 3.8% increase in non-interest expense year-over-year.
Net income was 5.8% higher on a linked-quarter basis.
This positive variance was the result of a 2.2% increase in net revenue and a favorable variance in the provision for loan losses both of which more than offset the 2.1% increase in expense quarter-over-quarter.
With the exception of the $150 million reserve release our third quarter results did not include any notable income or expense items that would have impacted the comparison of our year-over-year or linked quarter earnings.
Turning to Slide 13 net interest income increased year-over-year by $147 million or 5.9%.
The increase was largely driven by the $34.4 billion or 13.6% increase in average earning assets as well as the benefit from strong growth in low-cost deposits.
The growth in average earning assets was driven by predicted increases in the securities portfolio a higher cash position at the Federal Reserve and an increase in average loans.
The net interest margin of 3.65% was lower than the same quarter of last year due to the expected increase in low-yielding investment securities and the higher cash balances at the Fed.
On a linked-quarter basis net interest income was higher by $80 million the result of an $8.7 billion increase in average earning assets and a 2 basis-point decline in the net interest margin.
The net interest margin was lower in the prior quarter due to the expected growth in lower-yielding investment securities as the company continues to add liquidity on the balance sheets.
The investment securities portfolio at September 30 totaled $68.4 billion.
And we expect the portfolio to reach $70 billion by year end.
We also expect to maintain the investment securities portfolio at/or around that level for the foreseeable future given current Basel III liquidity requirements.
Turning to Slide 14 you can see more detail behind the change in average total loans outstanding.
Average total loans grew by $9.7 billion or 5% year-over-year.
Excluding covered loans which are slowly running off average total loans increased by 7.6% over the third quarter of 2010.
As indicated on the chart the increase in average total loans is principally driven by solid growth in residential mortgages and total commercial loans.
The latter of which grew by a very strong 11.9%.
This was the third consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in average commercial loans.
And the growth has been improving each quarter.
On a linked-quarter basis the 1.7% increase in average loans outstanding was primarily driven by the increase in commercial loans which grew by 4.6% as well as residential real estate loans.
Slide 15 tracks the growth in total deposits over the past 5 quarters.
Average total deposits grew by $32.7 billion or 17.9% year-over-year.
Excluding acquisitions the growth rate was 13.2%.
On a linked-quarter basis average deposits increased by 2.8% or approximately 11% annualized.
Slide 16 provides more details about the changes in non-interest income on a year-over-year and linked-quarter basis.
Non-interest income in the third quarter of 2011 was 2.9% higher than the third quarter of 2010.
This variance was driven primarily by a growth in payments revenue deposit service charges and commercial products revenue.
These positive variances were partially offset by lower trust and investment management fees principally the result of the sale of our long-term Asset Management business late in 2010 and mortgage banking revenue.
On a linked-quarter basis non-interest income was higher by $25 million or 1.2%.
This favorable variance was primarily the result of higher payments revenue deposit service charges and mortgage banking revenue partially offset by lower trust and investment management fees.
Deposit service charges benefited this quarter from the rollout of our new checking account redesign as well as higher transaction volumes.
A mortgage banking revenue which increased by $6 million linked quarter reflected a strong increase in application volume partially offset by the unfavorable variance and then the net change in the MSR valuation and related hedge.
Recall that the new debit card pricing guidelines went into effect on October 1.
Under the new pricing we expect to see a reduction in debit fee revenue of approximately $75 million in the fourth quarter related to this pricing change which is consistent with our previous estimate of a loss of $300 million on a full-year basis based on our current portfolio and growth assumptions.
As we have noted in the past we expect to mitigate approximately 1/3 to 1/2 of the reduction in the revenue related to all regulatory changes by modifying our checking account products and pricing any other changes to which are in process and partially reflected numbers this quarter.
We do not however have plans at this point to assess a debit card fee.
Slide 17 highlights non-interest expense which was higher year-over-year by $91 million or 3.8%.
The majority of the increase can be attributed to a higher compensation and benefits expense occupancy investments in affordable housing and other tax advantage products and an increase in professional services primarily due to the foreclosure review project.
The expense related to this project about $25 million per quarter is expected to be in our run rate for the next few quarters.
Or until the foreclosure review is complete.
On a linked quarter basis non-interest expense was higher by $51 million or 2.1% due to compensation professional services and marketing and business development expense.
Finally the tax rate on a taxable equivalent basis was 30.4% in the third quarter of 2011 equal to the second quarter of 2011 but higher than the 25.9% in the third quarter of 2010.
Slide 18 is included to provide updated detail on the company's mortgage repurchase-related expense and the reserve for expected losses on repurchases and make-whole payments.
Note that we do not participate in the private placement securitization market.
We expect mortgage repurchase activity to continue to moderate lower over the next few quarters.
Outstanding repurchases and make-whole request balances at September 30 was $115 million compared with $123 million at June 30.
I'll now turn the call back to Richard.
Thank you Andy.
To conclude our formal remarks I will call your attention to Slide #19.
To sum it up we had a very good quarter.
We grew both loans and commitments.
And the overall credit quality of our portfolio continued to improve.
We had excellent deposit growth and gained market deposit -- market share.
We grew both our balance sheet and our fee-based revenues and attained record total net revenue.
We realized positive operating leverage and earned record net income.
Our capital and liquidity position remained strong and growing.
We were able to return 45% of our earnings to our shareholders and we once again achieved industry-leading performance metrics.
All of this despite the challenges of a difficult and uncertain economic environment further demonstrating the value of our company's diversified business model prudent approach to risk management and sound growth strategies.
We're a bank.
And we're proud to be a bank.
On one hand we're managing our business through a difficult and complex environment which includes a fragile economy increasing regulatory oversight reputation risk and competitive pressures.
On the other hand we're providing our customers consumers small businesses large corporations institutions and government entities with the products and services they need to achieve their own financial goals.
We're in this together.
And we're trying to strive to do our part not at the expense of others but for the benefit of all of our constituents including customers employees communities and shareholders.
Our company has created momentum by adhering to the disciplined business strategy and investing through the cycle.
We've adapted and will continue to adapt to this changing environment with a focus on the future.
We're positioned to win during a difficult and strong economic time.
This concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Bill and I would now be happy to answer questions from our audience.
[Operator Instructions]  Your first question kind comes from the line of Ed Najarian of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
Richard we obviously saw a pretty good across-the-board improvement in credit quality and as well the delinquencies declining more than we're seeing with peers which I guess is what gave you the confidence for your fourth quarter statement.
How do you look at that in terms of increasing the paces or keeping or increasing the pace of reserve recapture from here? We're seeing a lot of banks that recapture a lot of reserves in prior quarters and are actually slowing that down.
You guys on the other hand are speeding that up.
I'm just sort of wondering how you're thinking about that in your head.
First of all we're kind of -- we're last to kind of come in to this because our credit quality was better from the beginning.
And so it probably never hit any kind of a peak.
We're actually are starting now to come back down.
So I think we'll declare the last quarter quarter 2 the quarter before this one as probably the peak of reserve release at 175.
But you'll still continue to see reserve release because we're not yet at our sustained credit quality levels that we've said over the course will be about 1% in total charge-offs.
Having said that you all note that we have a math that goes along with the development of our total loan loss provision which includes a kind of a forward four quarter arithmetic around what's happening to consumers which is actually showing some stability now reaching that point.
And on commercial it's much more lumpy and therefore we kind of take it at 90-day increments.
So that's why we're comfortable that the consumer portfolio continues to show improvement with the delinquencies forecasting improvement in total charge-offs.
That will continue to kind of slight soft landing if you will into something more steady over the course of time.
But commercial Commercial Real Estate are still lumpy and higher than they will be over the course which also tells me we're not yet where we need to be.
Going further as I've told you before we think this is about a 1% net charge-off over the course company primarily because we have such a significant credit card portfolio.
And I do predict that we will go below 1% in total charge-offs before we come back to it as we kind of overswing the economy will take us to that point.
I've been pleading with the regulators and the accountants to let us as banks not miss this chance to soften the impacts of counter cyclicality and allow us to determine what our over-the-cycle minimum level of loan loss provisions needs to be.
And don't ask us don't force us to go beyond that so that we all have to start building back loan loss reserves a couple of years from now when we swing back.
I'm not getting a whole lot of resonance by the way on my plea but at least I'm still out there asking for it.
But you can see this company's moving down toward the 1%.
It doesn't happen in one quarter.
You'll see the steady pace we have is probably what you could estimate over the next few quarters.
And so reserve releases will continue until we hit that point where we think we've got a sustainable level of loan loss reserves.
Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
And then to follow up you talked about getting to that 60% to 80% total payout ratio in terms of buybacks and dividends.
Is that something -- I know you've got to go through the next round of capital assessments with the Fed but is that something that you hope to get to as early as next year? And what is the kind of -- along with that what is the kind of range of dividend payout ratio you're hoping to get to for next year? Yes there's a lot in there right? And you said it first.
I have to go through all the prescribed gateways to get what we want.
But what we're going to be asking for in our stress test for the CCAR which will happen at year's end is an increase to our dividend that stays within our committed 30% to 40% and moves beyond what was the last year's first CCAR test of maximum 30%.
But we're going to stick with that 30% to 40% as a range against that we think is a reasonable forecast of earnings for this company.
And of course they'll put it against the very tedious stress test which we do ourselves by the way and we can withstand a lot of stress.
And on top of that we'll let the other 30% to 40% move up as we do the buybacks and we'll seek additional permission.
Although Andy will tell you here in a second we have plenty left in our current permissions.
And then what's left over as we put back into the company 20% to 40% in the form of organic investments which you've all allowed us to do over the last few years and/or acquisition opportunities that follow the same time that we've been doing over the last few years.
The difference only between now and what we said I don't know 5 years ago was it used to be 80% to shareholders and 20% to the company.
Now we've given it more 30% to 40% of buybacks 30% to 40% of dividends and 20% to 40% of what could be investments that we don't want to miss through this challenging time.
But I hope to get to 60% to 80% as soon as I can.
And I suspect that if I were left to my own devices I'd get there a little faster than I'm going to be allowed to.
But next year will be a good target.
And we'll see how close we can get.
Andy might just cover a little more color on the remaining [indiscernible].
Right.
So Ed we are at 8.2% Tier 1 common Basel III and above the level impact that we think we need to be without the specificity of the SIFI yet here.
So yes we do expect to get back to that level in 2012.
And we still have some buyback capacity remaining here in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
That's really helpful.
And then just finally any outlook in terms of this -- short-term outlook in terms of the net interest margin? Yes this is Andy again.
So the margin decrease on a linked-quarter basis was entirely due to our securities purchases.
And on a year-over-year basis it was entirely due to our securities purchases and the cash position at the Fed.
You strip those 2 things out and we're basically flat.
So we expect to continue to have securities purchases here into the fourth quarter getting into that $70 billion probably in the neighborhood of $3 billion or so.
Simple math is every $1 billion is a basis point.
So I would expect the fourth quarter to be somewhere between 3 and 6 basis points down depending upon the cash levels and the securities I just talked about.
And however I would also say that I would expect net interest income to be up just the same phenomenon you saw this quarter which was margin was down but net interest income was up.
And then I'll add to that.
History lesson for everybody not that you asked for it.
As you recall about a year ago we were given guidance by our regulators that our capital was quite sufficient and quite strong as it relates to the Basel III levels of total common.
But at the same time we were given the nod that we need to move up on our liquidity operation to have this balance sheet more fortress-ready.
We've done that.
And we're actually quite proud of that.
And I don't think you heard us ever even indicate it as a problem for this company to achieve during which time we've been doing other things.
We're glad we did it.
And I think the timing was quite good.
I'm glad we're virtually done with that liquidity build.
I think you'll see that it's a good strong balance sheet with much more liquidity than before.
And I'm glad we did it in the last year when probably it was more financially beneficial to do than to have to start it now.
So with that as a backdrop we really positioned ourselves.
And every single way we've dealt with suspenders on being a very strong company able to basically handle any kind of downturn that comes along.
With that we're hoping we'll get the permissions from the Federal Reserve to be recognized for that and allow us to move forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask a couple of questions on cards? I guess first there's a lot of concern that if industry starts to grow again yields will get competed down and your card book is up.
It looks like it's up a little bit more than normal seasonality if I'm reading it right.
But your yields are up as well and I'm talking on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Is there anything -- I guess what's driving the yields higher? The yields have a little bit to do with the revolve rate Brian and then a little bit also to do with the reserve for credit there which is improving on the interest margin.
So you think about the interest reversals.
There's a reserve established.
And as credit gets better that reserve gets better.
So that's a little bit in a factor.
I think if you strip those 2 things out the margin would be relatively flat.
Research Division</strong> I guess going forward is the old 9.2% to 9.3% the run rate? Or is the new 9.6% the right run rate to think about? A little bit's going to depend on the revolve rate on a go-forward basis.
But I expect it to moderate down just a bit because again we did see some improvement in that reserve component that improved the rate this quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then you referenced the 1% normalized charge-off rate for the company which at least when you first presented it back at the investor conference a year ago now had a 5.5% credit card charge-off rate.
Do you still feel like that's the normal level? Or obviously we're going to be below that for a while here.
Is there some argument that the new normal for cards is lower? Yes we're certainly not a 5.5% credit card.
Right now you see us at the mid 4s in the credit card.
And I think that's probably that kind of sustainable level you can expect.
It will bounce up and down depending on the number of days in the quarter and even now on your spending trends.
But I think you will see of course all of our portfolios they're just at the high quality.
We don't have any book of prime in our portfolio.
We have some joint issuances with people like Kroeger.
And we have some co-branded cards with some REI and others like that.
But they perform very very well.
So Brian I think you'll see us over the course have a boorish kind of a credit card charge-off.
But we'll continue to grow that book.
And it does affect the total 1% because it's a fairly significant part of our total charge-offs.
But we think that's the right mix and probably the right quality to go after.
And we're not going to get greedy and try to reach further back and change the underwriting that we have under credit cards as the world gets maybe a little bit better.
We're going to stick with our old knitting.
Yes and I'll just add.
Remember the 1% was a -- more of a through the credit-cycle type number.
So it's not at any given point in time now or a fairly stable unemployment.
So that's why we're seeing the good results right now.
By Bill Parker.
Professor Bill Parker.
Research Division</strong> If I could ask one last one on the same theme I mean just the overall competitive environment in cards as well as the data you get to see from a spending perspective in terms of the health of the consumer how would you characterize both? I was looking for Bill.
I thought he was going to answer.
I would tell you that we've got a couple of things that give us insight to the consumer behavior.
They -- first of all Brian are -- there has been encash [ph] on the deposit side and they're very very careful using their money on the credit side.
So we expect to see same-store sales be a pretty good proxy for the kind of increase we have in the balance sheet as the season starts to heat up for the holidays.
And then they'll pay it back down.
People are using their cash before they are using ours so that's why you'll see kind of a moderate use of credit cards.
But our insight says that those that are creditworthy are actually pretty comfortable with their ability to use the charge card and to pay it down pretty quickly.
And we don't have anybody know our portfolio that isn't creditworthy because we didn't have in the first place and anybody who's on the margin has since charged it off and haven't underwritten anybody new since.
You won't go to your mailbox and see a ton of U.S.
Bank direct mail.
We do a lot of this origination through our direct customer contact through branches and call centers and online.
We deal mostly customers we know or have other relationships.
And if we do extended it its through this partnerships with other very high-quality companies then we prefer this sense of trust.
As you may have seen the other day we introduced a new idea with REI where a customer can go into REI make application for a credit card online get approved while they're in the store and use the actual transaction as a credit line.
Those are the kind of customers we'll deal with.
But we will only deal with them at a very high credit quality level so that we're not reaching down to try to grow the balance sheet at the risk of putting some less prime customers on in the future.
I think you'll see -- what you see is we're a nice trajectory.
Everything in our company you all is going to be a nice steady slow methodical recovery down to that average of 1% credit charge-offs over the course.
And you'll see us sit there for quite a while because we're going to continue to underwrite at that level.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Richard really just to clarify the commentary about the capital return.
Last year the Fed said requests for dividend payouts north of 30% would be given extra scrutiny.
Did they give any informal cap that last year on like the total return that that should be limited to 50% or anything like that? You noted that you had done about 45% this quarter total return? Yes John they did not.
Last year in fact the buybacks were silent.
The entire issue last year was a maximum 30% for what we included is common and preferred dividends which is as you recall which is why we want to leave a little room and then go right to the top.
We haven't got any new guidance since then either but we have had permission to move forward on our buyback plan which is obvious because we've been doing it.
So that kind of came inter-test.
Now as the new test comes forward I don't have any guidance on what they're going to propose.
But given that they've let us get up to that 30% in dividends and approved us to do some actions on buyback everything we did this quarter was within permitted balance.
And 45% is the result but it wasn't a target.
It just happened to be what we got to.
I'm hoping that our current performance and our future stress test guidance will give us permission to at least go from this point now forward from 45% and up toward that 60% dated [ph] that we spoke up with that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And did those approvals around the buybacks that came subsequent to the dividend approvals is that kind of a quarterly thing? Or is that just -- okay you could do this for the rest of the year? That was a full year view John so we had a full year projected buyback plan consistent with the capital ratios that we set out in our plan and that was approved as part of the overall CCAR.
So John what happens -- each company did it different because the rules were so vague last time and I'll just give you an example.
We put a proviso in our stress test plan that said if and when we get to a certain capital Tier 1 common capital level without any of us knowing what the SIFI buffer would be.
In fact a year ago I don't think that phrase was even out there yet.
But if we get to this point then do we have permission to begin the buyback if we never go below that stated level? And that will be proviso that said yes.
And as it -- we turn out we actually got to that point sooner than we thought.
And we also have permission to move sooner than we originally thought and we got it.
So kind of the interim test but it had to be kind of set up as part of the structure in the first round.
And so lesson learned is we'll make sure we set a lot of options for us to negotiate with them in the second year once we pay out the CCAR in January.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay got it.
That's very helpful.
So question for Andy on the NII.
Outside of the impact of securities purchases how have you been able to keep the NIM pretty flattish at a high level amid this kind of low and declining rate environment? What are some of the puts and takes that allow you to do that? Sure.
So first of all the margin on the loans has been relatively stable the last quarter.
We had seen a bit of a decline in quarters 2 compared to prior quarters but it stabilized a bit.
A second is we still have some room on the deposit side of the equation.
Across both wholesale and consumer deposit pricing we've moved down a little bit consistent with the marketplace.
We're still in the middle of the pack but we had a little room there.
Third is we continue to have -- we have had and continue to have opportunity in terms of debt maturities and then the reissuance of debt.
And we'll continue to see that in 2012.
And so all those factors are part of the equation that gets me to that sort of 3 to 6 basis points.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe one for the Professor.
Bill do you -- what do you make of the flattening out of the home equity delinquencies? And that some other banks are kind of -- sound a little worried about mortgage credit double-dipping and turning in home equity.
Charge-offs may be going up.
But just -- can you give us your view there? Yes this is -- there's definitely a little seasonal pressure this time of the year.
So that would be normal.
I mean our state pretty flat.
We're further and further away from kind of the originations that took place pre-'09 -- or pre-'08.
And so we continue to work through whether it's modifications or just attrition of the older portfolios.
So that gives us some confidence that we'll continue to see improvement.
It'll be modest going forward because they're obviously with the home prices the way they are there's still a fair amount of pressure on those old vintages.
But we have good modification programs that we employ for all the products so.
John this is Richard in the OMG category don't forget we had this amazingly high-quality credit portfolio for home equity.
I mean if you look at anything we didn't grow a lot in the first half of that 2000s.
It was home equity.
I mean for our size you had to stick out.
Where were you guys because you weren't growing at that fast.
We did it through people we knew.
And our customers are primarily people that we have other relationships with.
And our seconds in many many cases follow our own first.
And that people where we follow someone else's first they're underwritten at very conservative levels.
So that is -- of all the portfolios it's probably our best most pristine portfolio in the original stress test of -- in April 2009 our numbers were so low in the forward view they asked us to take the next bank's -- next number because they couldn't model our number being that low.
So it's a point of pride for us that we have really high-quality home equity.
And our branch originators understand that we will only do those kind of home equities.
So you will see very little volatility in risk as it compares to our peers.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And even with a little bit of pressure on severity from the home price do you still expect the charge-offs to grind down both there and in the first mortgage book too Bill? Yes.
Slowly but surely yes.
Underwriting comes through in the end.
Yes.
The next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two questions one on Durbin and then one on Commercial Real Estate.
On Durbin you mentioned that you expect to be able to offset about 1/3 to 1/2 of all the regulatory issues including Durbin.
I'm guess I'm just wondering over what time frame and how much of that is in the run rate? You mentioned some of it was? Yes okay.
So let's do our setup here.
We think that those 3 categories where the Reg E activities Card act and now Durbin.
And for that total we're expecting to reach -- achieve a 30% to 50% recovery.
We're right now Betsy at 30%.
That's in our numbers today.
You get to 50%.
I'm going to take all of next year.
And the reason I'm going to do that is because we're not going to rush to judgment we're not going to make a mistake here and we don't have to.
And so right now I'm making something very clear.
We will not get that $75 million that we started the quarterly loss for Durbin beginning this month.
We're not going to try to hive it back this quarter or even in the first quarter of next year.
We'll start working our way toward different ways of charging for services and customers are willing to pay for.
We've got a great laboratory of watching a number of banks that have been doing the debit fee and we'll learn whether or not that's inelastic or elastic.
We'll find out if customers complain and move or just complain.
We'll take all that in time and we'll make our decision.
But over the course of now to the end of next year we will have achieved 50% of that total cost of loss but it will take the rest of the year to get the extra 20%.
Research Division</strong> Okay and that's -- so it's about $1 billion in total for all 3 and so you're talking about that $200 million or so incremental? Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then on your slide deck you talked about Commercial Real Estate.
Obviously with all the other asset classes and credit quality on Page 25.
So I just wanted to see if we could dig in a little bit to how you're managing down the Commercial Real Estate portfolio in terms of the NPLs there.
I mean obviously you had a big improvement in construction NCOs this quarter.
But when I look at the last couple of quarters the NPL decline in Commercial Real Estate looks like it's coming down pretty similarly a little bit less than in net charge-offs in that asset class.
Is this just something that you'll charge off and that's how we're going to down NPLs over time? Or is there something else going on that could accelerate that? No I mean it'll stay lumpy going forward.
But it's on a overall downward trajectory.
I mean the overall construction book continues to decline.
I think it's down 20% approximately year-over-year.
So as we -- if the portfolio the higher risk construction book continues to attrit and as we work through the different deals either we'll do loan sales or take the charge-offs and just otherwise it was all the assets.
Research Division</strong> Okay and as the current run rate of about $100 million or so decline in NPLs q-on-q what you would expect to continue or? Well if you look at -- there's a chart in there and it's going to be lumpy.
But overall it's on a downward trajectory.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then you could also talk a little bit about the performing TDRs? You indicated that that was due to accounting.
But maybe give us some color about whether or not you dealt with them differently because of the accounting or not? No we don't know.
We don't deal with anything differently because of the accounting.
I mean there were 2 things we did.
We -- historically we really only looked on the commercial side at those over $5 million and tagged them whether they were TDRs or not.
Now we basically go down to 0.
We have basically some formulas we run against the below $5 million to identify TDRs.
And then we used to use internal rates for determining market rate.
And now we use an external benchmark which is a little bit higher.
So -- but it doesn't change how we handle customers.
Research Division</strong> Right and they're all performing -- so you don't have any non-performing TDRs [indiscernible]? Yes there are definitely non-performing TDRs too.
But those have no impact because you're already doing a 114.
So there's no financial impact at all there.
Our next question comes from the line of Erika Penala of Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question is the follow-up on Ed's question.
You seem very conservative with your tone with regards to reserve release.
But then when you were answering John's question you were very confident in the strength of your underwriting.
I guess is what's missing in the equation in terms of what's driving for your conservatism the continued uncertainty in how the economic recovery plays out? No.
It's the math.
I mean we're at 130 -- what are we at? 131 and we're going to be at 100 basis points.
So as you start to slide into that new run rate you don't have that much left.
And so I hope we actually get to the point where the reserve release ends.
It's the only thing I don't like about our numbers because it's not sustainable repeatable and consistent.
So it'll come down just like a nice slow slide into home plate.
I mean it's just going to be steady and methodical and eventually our loan losses will equal our charge-offs.
And we'll be back to normal.
I just hope it's actually sooner than later.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just a follow-up on the margin we saw an 18 basis-point compression on commercial yield.
I guess in terms of looking forward do you expect a similar level given what you're seeing in the pipeline given what you're seeing in terms of pricing? Or do you think it'll be a little bit lower from here? This is Andy Erika.
That decline is really a function of the decline in rates overall in the marketplace.
So when I talk about spreads I'm talking about both the rate on the loan as opposed to bunding cost in that loan which stabilized a bit in the third quarter.
So on an absolute basis it's down because rates on a relative basis it was down a little bit quarters up to a quarter 2 and stabilized a bit and right now I see stabilization.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller of Friedman Billings.
Research Division</strong> On the mortgage banking side it's one of these areas I think you have been growing market share and even though it's still relatively small.
But with Bank of America getting out of the correspondent business is that something you guys are taking a look at? And secondly can you talk a little bit about what type of mortgage loans you're putting on your books? I don't know if you answered in the beginning but we've been running around this morning.
Just what type of loans your portfolio-ing? Right so first I'm going to answer your second question first.
The loans that represent the majority of the increase are in 2 categories.
Number one is a product called smart refinance that's originated at our branches.
It's a refinancing product for high quality core customers that come through the branch.
The second category would be prime jumbo loans originated through our mortgage banking group.
So these are not Freddie and Fannie qualified but again they're high-quality loans.
And then that smart refinance I would note that the term of those is probably in the neighborhood of 15 years or less so they're not long-term 30-year mortgages that's the principal area.
In terms of the mix of businesses and the way we originate from a retail and correspondent basis I would not see a significant change on that going forward.
Research Division</strong> On the smart refinance what type of yield do you give them? Again I'll go from a spread basis because that's how I think about things and so in the neighborhood of 200-plus basis points.
Research Division</strong> 200-plus basis points.
And most of its 15 years or less? Yes 10 to 15 yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay and on the other issue on your deposits like a lot of the banks are collecting a lot of deposits out there.
Can you talk about where that's coming from? Is it mainly coming in retail or through your business relationships? Paul it's coming everywhere.
So first on the consumer side of the equation we have a number of products smart savings and a number of different products that have allowed us to gain market share.
Richard talked about that.
You saw the FDIC data that indicated that.
So we are absolutely gaining market share on the consumer side of the equation.
On the wholesale lot side of the equation it's additional cash being held by corporations as they're shrinking the balance sheet additional market share.
And then finally on the corporate trust side of the equation we continue to build that book also and that is adding to our deposit categories particularly DDA.
So we're seeing across all 3 categories Corporate Trust Wholesale as well as Retail.
Research Division</strong> And just on a percentage basis is it an even mix across 1/3 1/3 1/3 or is wholesale like 56% of -- then consumer 20% to 30% just on that mix shift? Yes so wholesale's the majority of the increase.
And Wholesale and Corporate Trust is the majority of the increase that you see in DDA balances which is a big piece of the increase.
And I would say the remainder is sort of 50-50.
Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could kind of talk a little bit about -- given your comments about credit quality particularly as they stand in contrast to some of the larger banks being a little more conservative are there areas in which you think you're going to be taking even more market share kind of over the course of the next 6 to 12 months from a loan perspective? Yes.
We're taking it now.
You'll see it in the wholesale side.
And it'll be always in Small Business to Middle Market up to Corporate.
Starting backwards Corporate Banking as you know we are getting for the last few years since we've really established our national Corporate Banking capabilities we've been getting a lot more bites to the apple.
We've been invited into more syndicated deals.
And now over the last year we're now leading a lot of deals and leading syndications and playing the lead partner for these companies which is a big step.
And then as you might have thought through this the international banks are now not typically showing back up at the same level they were when there's a renewed syndicated deal.
And so we're not only invited in but we're invited up.
And so we're finding a lot of market share gain in deeper relationships and more customer -- more position with customers that are really very impressive-like corporate -- top Fortune 100 kind of customer.
The Middle Market they really seem to appreciate the quality of the balance sheet.
They like our top ratings.
And those companies are sophisticated enough to know they want to put their money and get their line from a bank that's really safe.
And we've been invited to do more business with them and particularly non-credit businesses come along with the loans that we've had.
And through Bill's good work we've taken higher positions on whole levels for customers that we really feel good about.
And on Small Business we've been growing that Moshe like in anywhere 9% to 12% in origination year-over-year whether it's SBA or business lines or business loans on the Small Business side.
And we're getting a lot of new bites of the apple there because the company's focus on Small Business in the last 2 years has been yielding a lot of benefits by changing the course of what used to be a bank that did Small Business when it was available to kind of leading relationships now with Small Business I mean getting all the ancillary deposits and key businesses to go along.
So it's going to be anything wholesale.
You're going to see it.
It's in our numbers now.
We're going to see it even more in future.
And I'll just recap by saying the opportunity presented by some of the international banks deciding to change their posture is going to help a lot in the next year.
Research Division</strong> And just one other kind of separate question that is I think when we've talked in the past there have been some thoughts about acquisitions outside of the banking space.
And it's been very quiet there.
What -- I mean what can you tell us about the environment? Are there conversations or the things we should be looking for? And what -- what are your areas of focus on that? And you mean outside of the traditional like? Research Division</strong> Traditional commercial banking yes.
Yes okay.
For us -- you just quoted the Corporate Trust and Payments businesses.
And you'll see more of what you've seen so far.
We keep looking.
We'd love to grow those 2 businesses.
The best capital use or low capital users they're great fee businesses.
The cost of entry is almost 0 for those who aren't in it.
And for those who are it's a scale business.
So we're not slowing that area at all.
We're not seeing perhaps as many deals to show you but it's not for lack of looking.
And if I have my way you'll see continued branch and small bank deals.
You'll see continued Corporate Trust deals.
You'll see portfolio purchases and you'll see opportunities for us in the payment space which might include more mobile banking activities.
So what you see is more what you're going to get.
And we're going to do our best to keep filling the pipeline with those kind of small deals that come together in a nice way in the end.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Arfstrom of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up how much of the commercial growth and the growth in commitment is driven by the wholesale and large corporate business? A big part of it and that's part of the reason why I started -- I mentioned to Moshe's question backwards.
Let me just say that as I look at the wholesale -- traditional wholesale which is the larger Middle Market Corporate and Commercial Real Estate our line of credit continues to grow.
Our utilization is pretty flat but it's only in fact a little bit down.
It's because we keep growing commitments by more and more.
So on a book of about $70 billion of commitments for those larger corporate side we grew in linked quarter $4.1 billion in commitments.
So $70 billion going to $74 billion.
The loans themselves went from like 17 to 18 of about $1 billion.
So we continue to have nice growth of 4.6% on that book linked quarter on loans but 5.8% linked quarter on the same book for commitments.
So that also says people are positioning to continue to be ready for something when they're ready.
And we're getting robust business across the board.
I would say if I had to split down the large CRE in the large corporate versus the middle market side of it it will be probably 2/3 1/3.
So it's really happening at the corporate level at the highest-level most.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up on a comment you just made you talked earlier also about the confidence of customers and how utilizations are relatively flat and you think you need confidence to lead the stronger balance growth.
I'm just curious if you could give us some maybe qualitative stuff on what your customers are spending and how much of an issue is the confidence question? Yes so one of the stories of the U.S.
Bank this quarter would be that most of the new opportunities in Wholesale Banking is driven primarily by refinance activities.
And if we were only refinancing our own customers there wouldn't be any balance sheet growth.
In fact there might be margin deterioration.
But the best proxy I have for you is we are bringing in other people's customers and refinancing new credits for us someone else's credits for them at rates that are sufficient enough for us based on our cost of funds to be good.
And so the majority of it it doesn't matter which of the category they talked about has a lot to its refinance activities and coming to us.
It can also be in the form of a refinance.
And that's getting a higher bite of the position or in fact leading the positions.
So by far John that's the majority of what we're seeing here.
It's really market shift.
Otherwise its customers who are either in M&amp;A.
And we're getting a bigger piece of that because more often than not our customers on the M&amp;A side of the transaction or in many other cases we've got like good ad businesses.
In the Community Bank we've got the Small Business growth I've talked about.
It kind of fills in the rest of the gap.
Next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question is when you do your Basel III calculation and you're only taking out from 8.5% to 8.2% are you giving yourself any credit for the better-than-performance on their credit that you actually can get a positive impact even though a lot of the legislation says we're not supposed to eventually get that? But are you giving yourself any credit for that as you go through that calculation? No is the short answer because that's Basel II.
And our constraint is actually Basel I/III.
Our Basel II numbers are actually higher than our Basel III numbers so I don't get to use any of that credit.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then on what we're seeing in the commercial growth as we're seeing really less access to market less competition from alternative providers of this is part of what we're seeing especially with your commercial loan growth just maybe the first sign of what may be a new paradigm for banking that the pie may be smaller but we're going to get a piece of it as we see business start to come back? Yes.
I mean I can repeat your answer but that's exactly what we're saying.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and I just think your positioning in the commercial side that's the first place we're going to see it because there are refinancing going on.
And as they move back into the banking system you're getting the benefit of that.
Eventually that will roll down in the Middle Market I guess and also some of the -- even closer to smaller business? Marty that's right on.
In fact what I just told the numbers back to John and Moshe -- I mean our utilization of those large per customers is like 24%.
I mean -- and we just keep building more customers and more opens to buy.
I mean when the recovery hits then it will.
I can't even tell you how much we have in terms of opportunity for our loan book to grow without adding one more new customer because we're having so many that are positioned eventually to take and use our balance sheets.
It's pretty good stuff.
The next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up question just on securities yields and deposit pricing.
I know you talked about these expectations for slight margin compression.
But I'm just wondering underneath the purchases first on the security side the pieces that you're adding for liquidity can you just give us come color what's going underneath in the securities yields? And do you expect that to hold up as you continue to reinvest going forward? Yes.
So Ken we are -- first of all I should highlight we ended the quarter at about $67.5 billion.
And we mentioned in the notes and in the call that we're going to probably end the year at $70 million and sort of be in the holding pattern then because we're going to be very close.
So the level of build is -- that remains is not significant so I'll start that there.
Secondly from the purchases I would say it's about 2/3 or 3/3 1/3 or one-quarter floating.
And the fixed is probably just around 2%-plus.
And the floating's probably LIBOR plus 135 to 140.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
All right.
That's helpful.
And then secondly the all-in deposit costs and the all-in liability costs were stickier for you guys relative to a lot of other banks.
I know you talked about the ability to continue repricing the right side of the balance sheet lower.
Can you help us at all think about how much is left either in deposits or what you're doing on the deposit side? And then also remind us about what you may have benefits from in terms of lowering the long-term debt costs? I would say a good deal of the deposit pricing opportunity is reflected in the third quarter.
There might be a little bit more opportunity but I would not call it significant.
We have between $7 billion and $10 billion rolling of over the next 12 to 15 months on the debt side of the equation that will offer us additional opportunity.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that -- so a lot of banks are talking about just the ability to reprice the entire deposit complex lower.
Obviously with your interest checking and money market savings at 14 there's not much more you can go.
But can you give us the amount of kind of where your go-to rates are on the CD side? And what the roll-off of the CD book is kind of like you just did with the debt book? Yes the CD book does represent a repricing opportunity both on new CDs as well as renewals.
But just from -- and you can see the math in terms of the balance sheet and income statement.
It's not a significant component of what changes on a month-to-month or quarter-to-quarter basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> You've talked a lot about your market share expansion in the commercial loans but 20% annualized growth in commercial loans how comfortable are you with the credit quality? Of the new loans I guess there are a couple of hung deals in the syndicated loan market this past quarter.
I didn't see your name associated with that but you're seeing some signs that everything's not as good as it had been.
So I guess I'm asking about the quality of the new loans what you're seeing in the market overall and if you plan continue that pace of expansion? I mean the quality of the loans is excellent right? So I mean we're very selective about how we go after the large corporate customers.
So -- and these are companies we know well.
We can provide a full suite of services.
And you're right we don't have any hung syndications.
Research Division</strong> And which geographies are these loans in? I mean you've been consistent for last year saying you're expanding you're going to gain market share.
You are.
Is that more in the Midwest is that Southeast? Where is it? Well the national corporate it's a national platform.
So that's all over the United States.
Mike if you compare it back to a few years ago though it's the out footprint.
Because we didn't have it.
And now it's quite robust for us but in market we're growing there too.
It's just that the net new -- if you just take a couple-of-year horizon it's really coming outside of the 25 states because of this national -- gone from regional the national corporate bank.
Research Division</strong> And how much of that -- if 2/3 of the growth came from wholesale how much of that would be international? Like capturing share from the international banks which are all pulling back? We don't do any international.
Research Division</strong> No you know what I mean.
In other words you had some international bank competing in the U.S.
market they're pulling back how much of your growth might be attributed to that? That's shown up just more recently.
[indiscernible] It's our future growth.
It's what I may be talking about in the next few quarters.
Research Division</strong> And just -- I'm going to repeat the question just so I know what to tell other people.
They say U.S.
Bancorp had 20% annualized commercial loan growth why? Because we are taking more position buyer positions with customers we now come to know.
We're being invited to syndicated deals for the first time and for the second time at a much higher level.
And we're rolling new customers just the old-fashioned organic way because I've added hundreds of new people in the last few years from a lot of really good banks with really good skills and really good customers who now work here.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And one last completely separate question when you look at home prices through the end of next year what do you plan around? What kind of flat down 2 down 5 what do you think? Mike this is Andy.
We're down 0% to 2%.
The next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> NIM obviously held up a lot better than we've seen at other banks.
It seems like you managed the surge in noninterest-bearing deposits better than some.
How sustainable do you think that increase is? That $10 billion increase in noninterest-bearing since its in the Wholesale and Corporate Trust? So Matt first of all I think you're right.
And our Treasury group works very closely with our Consumer group and our Wholesale groups in terms of pricing.
And we really try to target those solid customers and really try to work with the customers with different alternatives.
So we're not pushing customers away from the bank at all or charging them.
Second is I do think that the growth that you were seeing reflects a little bit of the fact that the corporations are very strong right now in terms of their own particular balance sheets and are not yet choosing to invest those dollars.
So we probably will see some decline in those over time.
The final factor I'd mention is that as you know there's unlimited insurance in DDA till the end of 2012.
So certainly in this environment that's a very safe place to put your money and that may change once the unlimited insurance changes at the end of '12.
Research Division</strong> Okay it's helpful.
And then just totally separate topic one of the interesting things that's probably going to happen in the next several years is some movement in the payments business in terms of how customers and corporates pay.
You've got obviously these changes in the debit card fees.
You've got mobile payments that is probably going to take off at some point.
There's stubbornly high unemployment so there's a lot of government transfers.
Can you just talk about -- obviously you're in a lot of the areas of payments.
And can you talk about some of the new products that you have or are working on or some of the themes that you think you will benefit from over the next say the next 6 12 months but a little bit longer term maybe? But 6 to 12 months is long [ph].
Two categories here.
One is your consumers and our mobile banking -- online banking capabilities are at the top of class.
And I've said a number of things about this company over the years and a few years ago you never said U.S.
Bank and innovation in the same phrase.
And now you should put it at the top of the class because we have spent a lot of time and energy with that price revenue office and building a whole new set of suite of new ideas and new ways to move money.
Because we're in the business of moving money for corporate payments for 20 years.
And now we extended that capability.
And I'm putting money behind getting amazing talent and amazing skill to get this kind of mobile banking in the top of class.
And you'll see amazing things in the next couple of quarters.
Back to corporate payments and the thing we haven't talked about much but I'm so glad we have it.
20 years ago the legacy of this bank started the corporate payments business which you know is a huge government provider of card big key [ph] payments.
It's a huge kind of sophisticated way of treasury management on steroids and moving money along before it was going to be popular paperless.
And all of that continues to grow and expand in terms of the capabilities we have.
And by the way Matt the cost of entry there is too high for -- there's only 4 or 5 of us in this space.
So this corporate payments world is going to become very robust for us.
Customers are going to get smarter and don't want to move anything that they can't see in a nanosecond.
They don't want it on paper.
They want to have the next new idea.
So while we appeal to consumers we're going to be able to get even further ahead because of our starting position with corporate and commercial payments.
So I'm totally jazzed about both of those and I'm glad you brought it up.
Research Division</strong> There's obviously a revenue opportunity from this.
But as people use banks differently as banks have to charge customers differently does this make you think about the expense base differently than we've seen one bank who was going to be very aggressive in expanding its branch network? Talk about maybe toning that down a little bit.
I think you're more kind of complete and haven't had this ambitious expansion.
But just as you look out in the next couple of years you're going to be doing business differently and I would think that might mean some reallocation of cost.
Yes not really.
We kind of the like where we are and I think we can handle just small nuances to the way we spend our money.
The branch network's probably going to go to 25 to 50 branches net a year.
And yes that's exactly what we've done for the last 10 years.
So it's nothing remarkable.
We have a disparately large position in what we call grocery branches and on-site corporate and public location branches in the same guide category because they are growing well.
They're exactly what customers want the hybrid between be where I need you to be but I don't need the same old-fashioned branch with marble columns.
And I'll say over the next few years you'll see like everyone else we're going to take the branches we do have make sure that they pass the test to be in locations for which more than check-cashing occurs.
And we'll probably remodel them in a way that make them much more attractive as a point of destination for conversations and private discussions.
But pretty much what you see.
And we're not going to make much of a change in course because we kind of like how it got us here.
And we don't have anything we need to either retrofit or back-out of because of having been to excess in the last couple of years.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-up questions.
Richard you've spent a lot of time over the last couple of quarters talking about the investment bank and the gains that you've seen there.
I'm just curious as to what the trends were in the investment bank this quarter relative to underwriting volumes and things like that.
Obviously the market's been pretty weak for underwriting.
But at least in terms of your line of business numbers it didn't look as if the Wholesale Banking and Commercial Real Estate numbers were down all that much.
So if you could just provide some color there that would be helpful? Let me just say a lot of businesses I thought you were talking about our fee businesses where we provide the guidance and trust and support to our wholesale clients which is growing very nicely especially since it started from 0 2 years ago.
So for us it's icing on the cake and there may be deals that we're not showing you yet because they haven't even come to market or they didn't come to market yet.
But we're now in conversations and the folks that we have in Charlotte and New York are at the top of the people's call lists as it relates to providing services for any kind of the underwriting or the high-grade activities.
In many cases that does derive more business on the balance sheet for us.
But primarily Matt it's going to be our fee business that you should look at that really derive kind of the benefit of that.
And I would say it's in inning 3 as this company is growing this business and growing a respect and a capability.
The talent is already there.
We're ready for the phones to ring but the market will find us as it continues to heat up.
And Andy you might put some numbers on.
Yes I would say that from the -- if you look at the commercial product revenue line which is with the majority of that fee revenue at glance our high-grade bond business our municipal underwriting business I think in all cases were building and taking share and building -- moving up on the lead tables.
And I think you should continue to expect that.
You are correct that the third quarter was down a bit in overall activity but we were up because we continue to gain share.
And I think once the activity starts to become robust we're going to move even more in those tables.
And then I might add lastly not unlike the conversation we had on the wholesale loan book this business is going to be benefited by the foreign bank's decision to retreat from some of those participations with some of those levels in involvement.
So this will be another place we will see I think robust benefits next year that are just starting to show up.
LLC Research Division</strong> That make sense.
And if I can just a follow-up question on the commitments.
You mentioned the commitments are growing a little faster than loans.
I'm just curious as to the trend in the pricing of commitments if that's gotten substantially more competitive over the last couple of quarters? It kind of flattened out a little bit.
I mean we did see year-over-year pricing come down 25 30 40 basis points.
But third quarter basically said it's still an uncertain environment out there so people are still willing to pay.
And I would add as this recession gets older and as people kind of start thinking through what's worth it to them we are prepared to compete on price.
We've always said that and I'll say it again today.
We're not having to use it as much.
People have more and more value that even I expected them to ascribe to our ratings and to our balance sheet strength and probably now our multi-year commitment in following through on things we've promised.
So we're actually not having to spend as much as I'm willing to spend to win a high-quality deal because they're actually coming to us saying that's a fair price for the quality of our relationship I'll take it.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then finally just a question on the CCAR exam.
Richard am I correct in assessing sort of the color of your comments relative to the 2012 exam versus 2011 as maybe the regulators being not quite so prescriptive this go-round versus last time? Maybe because of familiarity with the whole process but also because we're a bit further away from the challenges of 2008 and 2009? Yes what you heard was my aspirations that I'm right.
Honestly I don't have any insight except the way they've treated us during the year the way we continue to communicate well.
And my hope is that that distinction will be recognized.
I don't have the facts that -- and I really won't know until we do this second.
We only have 2 points to connect.
We have one test and the tea leaves to read.
But so far we're prepared to perform well in test.
And I hope that the teacher will give us a high grade and let us move on to the next class.
Our next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush of NAB Research.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a small picture question for Bill and a big picture question for you Richard.
I'll ask the small one first.
Bill the impression is that the credit standards have changed dramatically on the consumer side over the last few years.
Could you clarify whether that is indeed true at USB? And just sort of maybe give us your sort of average FICO on the consumer side now versus where it was in maybe 2008? Yes and I said this before.
I mean in terms of U.S.
Bank and our underwriting if you look at our cards or autos our underwriting really did not change a lot.
I mean in cards you have to make adjustments in a downturn based on region and stuff like that but basically straight prime books.
The one area that did change we changed along with the industry was the 100% financing of a home which we did some of that in our finance company.
And we do some of that on our home equity.
So backing away from 100% we still do 90% home equity in kind of our branch.
But that's the one area where there was a change at U.S.
Bank.
And obviously even bigger changes in the industry.
And the average side we do disclose on our residential mortgage and home equity originations.
They're in our schedule that we hand out and those FICOs are I think they're in the 760s.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Richard the question for you is this I think it's recognized in the banking industry that you're one the CEOs who has pretty good relationships with the regulators i.e.
you're not out there yelling at them or insulting them in public.
So I would ask you -- I mean what do you see as sort of the general relationship between the banking industry and its regulators right now? And do you see any -- where are we in this sort of whole new regulatory revolution or evolution? Do you see any new initiatives that are going to be coming down the road at us? Yes Nancy that's a big one.
Let me say first of all we have a handful of people that are still in appointed or unconfirmed positions and that is worth starting at because until the comptroller the head of the FDIC are finally confirmed and until the CFPB is finally appointed you don't get the same kind of definitive answers you don't get the same kind of definitive progress on things when people are watching progress but not necessarily setting a long-term objective.
So I think we're a bit -- I'd say I'm frustrated by that because I'd like to have a better sense of where the endpoint is so we can all start marching toward that.
But directionally we all know where we're headed.
I would say if you take a look at the Dodd-Frank 20% of the whole activity hasn't even -- has only been slightly accomplished 80% even yet to be defined.
You look at things like SIFI buffers.
We're sitting in wait wondering what will be called and what the number will be.
We're eager to know whether or not there's going to be a standard coming out of this CCAR test coming up that we just mused about here not knowing.
So the uncertainty is everywhere.
But I also balance it by saying and so it's been that way for 3 years.
I mean we've been operating under uncertainty for a long time.
We've been operating under a difficult economic environment for a long time/and so I think the answer to your question is nothing's getting more clear or progressing very fast but our ability to now understand that it's not going to happen fast and our willingness to accept the fact that we have to make up some of the answers until there's a final one.
It's probably much higher.
So I believe that my peers and I are still frustrated to the highest level that we don't have better guidance.
But we're not in most cases frustrated or surprised by it.
We're now managing to kind of a new normal in understanding it will take quite some time.
And on the other hand until you tell me I can't do something and it's not harmful and it's good for your customers and it seems to be in line with good regulatory behavior then we're going to do it.
And we'll wait and find out if they want us to change that later but we're not sitting on our hands waiting for guidance on how to run the company.
We're just trying to be a little more logical.
So I'd say it's because it's old and it's not that different we're probably more balanced in our view and probably not as surprisingly frustrated as we would otherwise be.
LLC Research Division</strong> There was an announcement last week or a report that the CFPB is going to start examining mortgage servicers for hidden fees et cetera et cetera.
Do you expect that you will get targeted in that? And do you expect that then they're going to go from mortgage servicing to credit cards et cetera et cetera? Yes I don't.
I don't.
I'll tell you why.
I think the CFPB is still a long way from being configured.
And in fact I don't have a CFPB person assigned to me yet so we have no CFPB evidenced at U.S.
Bank.
And so until that time the OCC and others will continue to watch over what would be consumer regulations and we'll watch it ourselves.
But I think when it comes to things like mortgage there are so many other entities looking over that topic.
It would be surprising if the CFPB picked one of their first things to get into the middle level of.
It would be something that someone else is working on.
I think from talking to Rog Tate [ph] it's clear to me that they're going to stay pure on focused on transparency disclosures customer clarity on all products could be mortgage too but credit cards and mortgages to start.
But it won't be intrusive or redundant the things that are being done in a more provocative sense of servicing rules and foreclosure exams and things like that.
I think they're going to stay pretty pure first.
What we all really want more than anything is that we want them to appoint someone so that the non-bank entities can be brought into the same umbrella of oversight that we all share.
And I think that's the most important thing we should look forward to which is why I've always been a supporter of the CFPB because I think it brings more guidance to a level playing field than it does additional work for those of us who already doing it.
The next question comes from the line of John Dunne [ph] from Meredith Whitney.
I think in the past you guys have sort of downplayed the idea of buying credit card portfolios -- I mean sorry commercial real estate portfolios.
It seems like maybe you've softened your stance on that.
Is that because there's a lot of weak players out there and you might be able to get something at a good price? Has your view changed? No we haven't softened our stance.
We've typically pretty much -- might want to underwrite stuff that big and that important and know where it came from and know our customer.
Not to say we wouldn't find what we might like but the more recent deals you saw we took a quick look and said not for us and we've moved right along.
Yes it's a critical test to know who we're doing business with that's not the space where you just buy indirect.
Yes and we're not desperate for us to asset growth.
And I'd mean that in the nicest way.
We're simply not looking to go buy other assets because we have a balance sheet issue.
We can handle where we are now.
And eventually gosh I can't wait until these lines of credit get used and then we're going to be very very pleased that we didn't over-encumber ourselves with loans that we didn't know.
That was our final question.
Presenters do you have any closing remarks? Thank you Tiffany.
I just want to thank everybody for their continued interest.
I am really proud of this quarter.
And we've always said we want to focus on consistency predictability and repeatability.
I call it my CPR.
And I think we're getting close to consistent.
I think we're getting close to predictable.
And I certainly think we can keep repeating this kind of clean and unjaundiced performance of just doing business the old-fashioned way.
So I hope that's clear to you and I appreciate the time you gave us today.
Yes thank you all for listening.
And please as always if you have any follow-up questions give me or Sean O'Connor a call.
Thanks.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to U.S.
Bancorp's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Following the review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon Eastern Time through Wednesday January 25 at 12:00 midnight Eastern Time.
I will now turn the conference call over to Judy Murphy Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Brooke and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorp's fourth quarter and full year 2011 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analysts' schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Judy and good morning everyone.
Our company achieved record net income for 2011 driven by record net revenue in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
And we accomplished this during a very challenging and uncertain economic and regulatory environment.
We're very proud to share our results with you today and I'll begin with the highlights on Page 3 of the presentation.
U.S.
Bank recorded record net income driven by record total net revenue of $5.1 billion this quarter which was 8.1% higher than the same quarter of 2010.
Excluding the gain noted on the slide the increase was 4.7%.
Total net revenue was a record even after excluding the $263 million gain and was driven by growth in both net interest income and in fee revenue.
Total average loans and deposits grew year-over-year and we realized strong linked quarter total loan growth.
Credit quality continued to improve as net charge-offs declined by 7% and nonperforming assets excluding covered assets decreased by 15.2% from the prior quarter.
We continue to generate significant capital each quarter through earnings.
Our Tier 1 common equity ratio was 8.6% at December 31 or 8.2% using anticipated Basel III guidelines while the Tier 1 capital ratio ended the quarter at 10.8%.
We repurchased 6 million shares of common stock this quarter.
As a result we returned 29% of fourth quarter earnings to our shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.
Detailed on Slide 4 are our full year 2011 highlights.
As you can see we achieved record net income in 2011 of $4.9 billion and EPS of $2.46.
Earnings were supported by record total net revenue of $19.1 billion a 5.3% increase over 2010.
You'll also note that our strong capital generation allowed us to further build our capital position throughout the year.
We repurchased 22 million shares of common stock in 2011.
For the year in total we returned 31% of our earnings to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.
The 5-quarter trends of our industry-leading performance metrics are shown on the left-hand of Slide 5.
Return on average assets in the fourth quarter was 1.62% and return on average common equity was 16.8%.
Excluding the impact of this quarter's 2 significant items return on average assets and return on average common equity were 1.51% and 15.6% respectively.
For the full year 2011 we achieved a return on average assets of 1.53% and a return on average common equity at 15.8%.
Our net interest margin and efficiency ratio are shown in the slide on the right-hand of 5.
As expected this quarter's net interest margin of 3.60% was lower than the same quarter of last year and the prior quarter.
And Andy will discuss the factors that led to this change in just a few minutes.
Our full year 2011 net interest margin was 3.65% versus 3.88% in 2010.
Our efficiency ratio for the fourth quarter was 52.7% and our full year 2011 efficiency ratio was 51.8% consistent with our expectation that this ratio will remain in the low 50s.
Turning to Slide 5 (sic) [Slide 6].
Our capital position remained strong and continues to grow.
At December 31 our Tier 1 common ratio under anticipated Basel III guidelines was 8.2%.
At 8.2% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum required we believe have adequate cushion to cover our SIFI buffer which is an estimate at this time plus a cushion to cover fluctuations in the balance sheet.
Last week we submitted our 2012 comprehensive capital plan to the Federal Reserve.
We expect to pass the test and importantly receive permission to raise our 2012 dividend and continue our share repurchase program.
Raising the dividend remains a top priority for this management team and for our Board of Directors.
As we've indicated in the past our long-term goal is to return between 60% to 80% of our earnings to shareholders through dividends and buybacks.
Now moving on to Slide 7.
Average total loans outstanding increased by $11.5 billion or 5.9% year-over-year and 5.5% adjusted for acquisitions.
Linked quarter average total loans grew by 2.4% a slight acceleration from the 1.7% linked quarter growth in the third quarter.
Significantly new loan originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments totaled over $49 billion this quarter.
This represented a 13% year-over-year increase in new and renewed lending activity and a 7% increase over the prior quarter.
Additionally total revolving corporate and commercial commitments outstanding increased by 21.1% year-over-year and 7.2% linked quarter continuing the trend we have seen over the past number of quarters and providing us with added confidence that loans will continue to grow as we move into 2012.
Total average deposits increased by $33 billion or 17.3% over the same quarter of last year while total average deposits grew by $7.9 billion on a linked quarter basis or 3.7%.
The strong growth in Corporate Trust Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking particularly in noninterest-bearing deposits over both time periods.
Our customers continue to hold historically high levels of cash viewing our bank as a trusted partner in managing their financial needs.
Turning to Slide 8.
The company reported record total net revenue in the fourth quarter of $5.1 billion an increase of 8.1% over the prior year's quarter and 6.4% over the previous quarter.
The growth in revenue can be attributed to both our balance sheet and fee-based business lines as each has benefited from investments in growth initiatives over the past years.
In fact some of the negative impact realized in the fourth quarter from reductions in the debit interchange revenue the result of the Durbin Amendment was offset by growth in the balance sheet and other fee income lines again demonstrating the advantage of our diversed business mix.
Turning to Slide 9 in Credit Quality.
Fourth quarter total net charge-offs declined by 7% from the third quarter of 2011 while nonperforming assets excluding covered assets decreased by 15.2%.
This marks the seventh consecutive quarter of improvement in both measures.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 1.19% improving from the 1.31% recorded in third quarter.
Turning to Slide 10.
As the graph on the left illustrates early- and late-stage delinquencies excluding covered assets are relatively stable this quarter with a slight seasonal uptick in the early-stage delinquencies.
On the right-hand side of Slide 10 you can see that the trend in criticized assets continues to show improvement.
Both of these statistics provide us with confidence that net charge-offs and nonperforming assets will trend lower in the first quarter of 2012 although net charge-offs will show a more modest reduction than in recent quarters as the consumer categories continue to improve but at a slower pace as they move closer to stabilization at these lower loss rates.
Given the fourth quarter's credit results and the expected improvement going forward we released $125 million of reserves in the fourth quarter compared with $150 million in the third quarter and $25 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
I will now turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Richard.
Slide 11 gives you a view of our fourth quarter and full year 2011 results versus comparable time periods.
Diluted EPS of $0.69 was 40.8% higher than the fourth quarter of 2010 and 7.8% higher than the prior quarter while full year 2011 EPS was 42.2% higher than 2010.
Slide 12 lists the key drivers of the company's fourth quarter earnings.
The 38.6% increase in net income year-over-year was a result of an 8.1% increase in net revenue and a decrease in the provision for credit losses partially offset by an 8.5% increase in noninterest expense.
Net income was 6% higher on a linked quarter basis.
This positive variance was the result of a 6.4% increase in net revenue and a favorable variance in the provision for loan losses both of which more than offset the 8.9% increase in expense.
Slide 13 details the notable items that impacted earnings in the fourth quarter of 2011 and other periods.
In the current quarter total noninterest income included a $263 million litigation settlement gain related to the termination of a merchant processing referral agreement.
We also booked $130 million expense accrual related to mortgage servicing and foreclosure-related matters.
On a net basis these 2 items increased EPS by $0.05.
The fourth quarter of 2010 included a $103 million gain from the sale of our long-term Asset Management business.
This prior year's gain increased EPS by $0.02.
Moving to Slide 14.
Net interest income increased year-over-year by $174 million or 7%.
The increase was largely driven by the $35.3 billion or 13.6% increase in average earning assets as well as the benefit from strong growth in low-cost deposits.
The growth in average earning assets was driven by planned increases in the securities portfolio growth in average total loans and a higher cash position at the Federal Reserve.
The net interest margin of 3.60% was 23 basis points lower than the same quarter of last year due to the expected increase in low-yielding investment securities in addition to the higher cash balances at the Fed.
On a linked quarter basis net interest income was higher by $49 million as the $8.8 billion increase in average earning assets was partially offset by the 5 basis point decline in the net interest margin.
The net interest margin was lower than the prior quarter due to the expected growth in lower-yielding investment securities as the company continued to add liquidity on balance sheet.
The investment securities portfolio at December 31 totaled $70.8 billion.
Assuming stable cash balances and the current Basel III liquidity requirements we expect the investment securities portfolio to increase consistent with our overall balance sheet.
Slide 15 provides you with more detail behind the change in average total loans outstanding.
Average total loans grew by 5.9% year-over-year.
Excluding covered loans which are slowly running off average total loans increased by 8.5% year-over-year.
As indicated on the chart the increase in average total loans was principally due to solid growth in commercial loans and residential mortgages.
Commercial loans grew by a very strong 15.8%.
This was the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in average commercial loans and the growth rate has improved each and every quarter.
On a linked quarter basis the 2.4% increase in average loans outstanding was also primarily driven by an increase in commercial loans which grew by 5.6% and residential real estate loans which grew by 6.6% primarily due to refinanced activity.
Slide 16 provides more detail on the growth in total deposits over the past 5 quarters.
Average total deposits grew by 17.3% year-over-year.
Excluding acquisitions the growth rate was 11.7%.
On a linked quarter basis average deposits increased by 3.7% or approximately 14.8% annualized.
Importantly average low-cost deposits accounted for the majority of the increase on a year-over-year and linked quarter basis.
Slide 17 offers more details about the changes in noninterest income on a year-over-year and linked quarter basis.
The 9.4% increase in noninterest income in the fourth quarter over the same quarter of last year was driven by the fourth quarter 2011 merchant settlement gain partially offset by the prior year's gain from our sale of our long-term Asset Management business as well as growth in deposit service charges merchant processing fees commercial product revenue and mortgage banking revenue.
These positive variances were partially offset by lower debit card fees due to legislative-related changes to debit card interchange.
The impact to this quarter's revenue was $77 million.
In addition noninterest income was affected by lower trust and investment management fees principally the result of the sale of our Asset Management business late in 2010.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest income was higher by $260 million or 12%.
This favorable variance was primarily the result of the merchant settlement gain and higher mortgage banking and merchant processing revenue partially offset by the reduction in debit card interchange and seasonally lower corporate payments revenue and deposit service charges.
Slide 18 highlights noninterest expense which was higher year-over-year by $211 million or 8.5%.
The majority of this increase could be attributed to the $130 million expense accrual for mortgage servicing matters.
Higher compensation and benefits expense and an increase in professional services primarily due to the foreclosure review project which is expected to be in the run rate for a few more quarters.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest expense was higher by $220 million or 8.9% due to the mortgage servicing accrual compensation professional services and marketing and business development expense.
The tax rate on a taxable equivalent basis was 30.5% in the fourth quarter of 2011 essentially equal to the third quarter of 2011 but higher than the 27.8% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Slide 19 provides updated detail on the company's mortgage repurchase-related expense and the reserve for expected losses on repurchases and make-whole payments.
Our outstanding repurchases and make-whole request balances at December 31 was $105 million compared with $115 million at September 30.
We expect mortgage repurchase requests to remain fairly stable over the next few quarters.
I'll now turn the call back over to Richard.
Thanks Andy.
To conclude our formal remarks I'll turn your attention to Slide 20.
In summary it was a very good quarter and it was a very good year.
We grew loans commitments and deposits.
We achieved record total net revenue in the quarter and for the year with growth coming from both our balance sheet and from our fee-based businesses.
Our credit quality continued to improve.
Our capital and liquidity positions remained strong.
We earned record net income for the year and we achieved industry-leading performance metrics for the quarter and for the year all of this despite the ongoing challenges of an uncertain economic environment increasing regulatory oversight and cost improving but still elevated credit costs and increased competition.
We end the year where we began: in an industry-leading position of strength.
We're positioned to win and in fact we're stronger than we were a year ago and we're very well positioned for 2012 and beyond all for the benefit of our customers our employees our communities and our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Bill and I would be happy to answer any questions from our audience.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Richard congratulations.
You've kind of met the capital target that you've been striving towards and probably exceeded it.
The comments I mean in your prepared remarks I guess you kind of just reiterated what you had said before.
Any kind of additional discussion about the nature of how that process will work and what the time frame to get to your long-term capital return targets would be and how your discussions with the regulators have evolved on that? Sure.
Thanks Moshe for that comment and for the question.
As you know the CCAR input was put in earlier in this month and we're waiting for our final results no later than March 15.
At that point and rather like last year which was the first official stress test routine we want to make sure that we pass.
And it does seem like it's a binary process.
So we were thoughtful about putting in both our dividend and our share repurchase request.
And I would tell you that while they're on the aggressive side and hopefully will be approved they're not yet where we want to be at the end of this trip.
And accordingly whether this becomes a semiannual activity or an annual activity we're comfortable that we'll continue to prove to the regulators that first of all our plan and our forecast are sound based on a very steady history.
We also think that our prudent capital management should benefit their willingness to allow us to move forward.
And I don't think it's more than another year or 2 to get to where we want to that 60% to 80% but it won't happen in one fell swoop because we simply can't move as quickly as we'd like to given some of the constraints placed on the test.
But we are comfortable that we'll be able to demonstrate the strength of the company through this next pass and hopefully by March 15.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just as a follow up.
In terms of the loan growth that you've seen which has been consistent and improving are there areas of market share gains that you're seeing and things that might -- that we could look at in 2012 for that to continue? Yes Moshe.
In our company and you hear this everywhere a lot of the companies are strong and they're getting stronger particularly corporate America even in the community and middle market.
In saying so you'll hear that a lot of the growth is coming from companies doing refinancings.
And while that typically would sound like code word for just rotating your own book in a position that we're in where we are continuing to gain market share we're invited to those refinances many of which we weren't in the first place.
So a lot of our growth is coming from honest-to-God market share improvement by getting bites into other companies that we weren't part of before.
I said last quarter and we're seeing a continued -- not huge but a continued benefit from the European banks moving away from their positions in the syndicates.
We're either being invited for the first time in a position that they use to hold or more often being invited to step up in a position that we already had given that there are less banks in some of these deals.
And in more cases than used to be because of our capital markets capabilities we're invited now to lead some of these deals and get more business than we had before.
So for us it is market share gain.
It's across-the-board.
It's mostly customers that are strong refinancing and we're getting a bigger part of that.
It's nothing more magical than that.
And I wouldn't call out any specific industry or geography that would really harken a unique perspective at this point in time.
It's kind of across-the-board slow steady and as you'd expect in a recovery that's going to take years.
Your next question comes from Erika Penala with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on capital.
Like Moshe mentioned it's clear that you hit your targets early.
And I guess I'm wondering how you view yourselves relative to some of your peers once the U.S.
interprets some of the Basel III regulations because we see press reports that are putting some of your closer peers at 8% Basel III on a Tier 1 common basis.
But that peer would be almost 4x your size.
Richard I know you've been cognizant of growing too fast.
Is that going to be an advantage once we have the final interpretations and that because of your size you could hold the lower buffer to your closest pure bank peer? Well I think so.
5 is a beautiful number.
And we're a distant 5 from the 4.
And more importantly Erika as you know we weren't deemed a G-SIFI.
And I don't think we were even close necessarily based on either our size and certainly not on our complexity.
So my hope is that we can continue to grow like we have stay under that G-SIFI designation.
And as you know the next peer above us at least at the G-SIFI rules set was a minimum of 100 basis points additional to the 7.
We actually were given 0 guidance on that.
So in our case we've taken a prudent step of creating our own guesstimate on what our buffer might be when this is all said and done.
We've also added as I indicated in my notes another buffer based on the balance sheet vagaries and how things move around.
And I think we've been extremely conservative and hopefully as clarity comes along we'll find that we actually have more put a way that we need to knowing that we're already well above what we think is a conservative view.
So at the end of the day it's probably an advantage.
On the other hand the scale advantage goes to the really big players who have balance sheets that they can leverage for different purposes.
So it seems to be an offsetting benefit for those of us who don't have to hold as much and can be a little more nimble as we move forward through this recovery.
Research Division</strong> Based on sort of the color that you're getting with the CCAR process this year it sounds like now is not the year or maybe even next year to sort of take advantage of those differences.
Meaning you're not going to be able to deploy that -- the excess capital positioning doesn't matter near term.
Not altogether.
I mean we're not going to push the limit and we're not going to go above the guidelines they gave us.
But they gave guidelines for dividends they gave no guidelines for share buyback.
You put those together and you can get a pretty substantial total shareholder return outcome.
And the nice thing about buybacks is if for some reason an opportunity comes along you can stop those and redeploy it into the opportunity that's present.
So I think we won't get the exact mix we want right away because it will take some time for I think the government to feel comfortable for certain companies particularly on a dividend basis to go to higher levels.
But I think in a total we'll be pleased to see that if we get our permissions we'll be moving very closely to our overall goal.
Your next question comes from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Richard it seems like you left some buyback authorization on the table this year.
I wasn't sure if the $50 million was for this year.
But just wondering do you have flexibility to do buybacks in the first quarter that are preapproved from last year's CCAR? Just wondering how that works.
John this is Andy.
Yes we do.
We carried over our authorization both from the board level into the first quarter given the timing of the CCAR and we also have remaining authorization from the Federal Reserve approval that goes into the first quarter.
One of the reasons we are a little lower this fourth quarter than last quarter is as we mentioned some of the vagaries of the balance sheet.
The fourth quarter is when we have the pension debit that comes into play.
And given the lower discount rate that increased by about $300 million.
So we wanted to be sure that we hit our target capital ratio so we modified our buybacks to ensure that.
And I think you'll see us come back in the market here in the first quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Andy on expenses.
To what extent is the fourth quarter expense number a good run rate for the first quarter? I know there was some seasonal items in the fourth quarter.
Just wondering what are some of the puts and takes on expenses as you look ahead.
Right.
So John I would say first of all obviously the $130 million mortgage-related servicing matter is a one-time item in nature.
Also included in the fourth quarter was just under $40 million related to the consent order.
That will likely continue into the first quarter so that is not so much a one-time event but more of a run rate expense.
And then the first quarter has a little seasonally higher benefit rate but a little lower on the tax-related matters related to our CDC.
So those are the gives and takes.
But really fourth quarter didn't have a lot of unusual items in there.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And is there any color that you can give on the accrual for the mortgage foreclosure stuff this quarter that you gave? There's not a lot more color than we can give other than what we've talked about which is it's related to mortgage servicing foreclosure matters and relates to some of the activities that you're reading about.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question for me.
It seems like the securities purchase has gotten you where you want to be liquidity-wise.
Did you give a near-term outlook on the NIM? If not do you have one on net interest margin? Yes so you're right.
First regarding securities.
We increased our securities portfolio $19 billion from a year ago and we're just over at an ending balance just over $70 billion.
And as you know most of that addition was related to building our LCR ratio which we're going to sort of hold right now until the final rolls come out.
So the growth in the securities portfolio will be more consistent with our overall balance sheet growth going forward.
Related to margin the 5 basis point decline from the fourth quarter versus the third was principally due to that securities build.
As we look into the first quarter we're going to have a relatively stable margin except for our cash position at the Fed which is a little bit higher.
So I would expect margin in the first quarter given the current cash position to be down 3 to 5 basis points.
But importantly net interest income will be more stable than that.
The margin is impacted by the cash balances but not the net interest income overall.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And those cash balances are just growing because you deposit growth and not having any other alternatives for it? Right.
We have tremendous deposit growth as you see in the numbers which is exceeding loan growth.
What I do -- what I will tell you is that we do have debt maturities that occur throughout 2012 but most of those start in the second quarter.
So we'll be able to redeploy that in a different way.
But in the first quarter we're likely to have a little higher cash balance at the Fed.
Your next question comes from Jon Arfstrom with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the margin.
What have you seen in the commercial loan deals? It looks like they're down again this quarter but maybe not quite as much as the previous quarter.
Is that primarily the large corporate growth-driven? Or is there something else driving that? John this is Andy.
The overall margin yield is down more on a year-over-year basis and quarter because of the mix of floating versus fixed rate.
What I will tell you though is the spread on large corporate loans has stabilized here in the fourth quarter.
We did see some declines that occurred in quarters 1 and 2 and a little bit in the first half of 3 but I would term it stabilization in terms of spreads in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> So it's possible that the decline will start to abate a bit? That is correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Richard just a bigger-picture question for you.
Where -- acquisitions have been very slow in the industry.
Where is that in terms of your interest list? Do you see any hope on an increase in activity and maybe compare and contrast bank versus nonbank in your interest list? Yes thanks John.
We'll start with the latter.
Nonbank we are both interested and believe there are opportunities.
So that follows the path we've taken for the last 3 or 4 years.
Corporate Trust businesses continue to come our way mainly because I think companies without a real scale are saying "Why are we in this business? And if we aren't fully going to be great at it the cost of having to invest in this is pretty high." So I think we'll see more of those opportunities and they're very scalable.
They're add-ons to what we have in Corporate Trust.
Likewise payment portfolios particularly credit card have come our way as you know more recently.
There will be more of those opportunities because we have a scalable business and I think we've built a real nice reputation in the businesses as being a great acquirer and a very seamless transition-capable company.
So those will continue.
As it relates to traditional bank deals there will be -- opportunities will come along and I've always -- my favorite line is an opportunity won't be missed as it comes along.
But we're not putting it into our strategy as necessary.
So if a small FDIC deal came along the likes of the New Mexico deal a year ago first of all because we don't have anything in the queue now that would otherwise disrupt it we'll be interested.
And if we can find a deal that would be small and fits in nicely to our current footprint we'll probably do it if it's the right price and makes sense.
If it doesn't either make sense or look right we're not going to do it; if it's out of footprint we're not touching it.
As it relates to the bigger deals the deals that would be more headline likely if those opportunities were to come along I think we either have the capital and I know we have the regulator confidence and I believe the Street would accept a deal if we were to look at something and have a capital raised but it's not one of our goals.
It would just have to be something so undeniably good that you didn't want to pass if you don't want to overlook but we're not necessarily expecting it.
And if it happens it will be an opportunity we won't miss.
Our next question comes from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Andy just following up on the NIM.
As we think out medium and longer-term just keeping the rate environment stable it seems like you do have some levers on the long-term debt that you mentioned earlier some starts to run off in 2Q.
But also if I look at the short-term borrowings the rate on that is pretty high.
So I'm just wondering how you think the mix is going to evolve over time with all this good deposit growth and maybe some runoff of the wholesale borrowing.
So one how does that progress? And then two obviously the impact on the NIM what do you expect that to be? Right.
So Matt the way I'll answer that is as if I look at the last 12 months if I take out the securities build and the cash position our NIM was relatively stable almost flat.
And as we look into the first quarter and we looked at the fourth quarter here I think that same phenomenon holds true.
So the negative next year will be the securities portfolio reinvestment.
The positive will be the debt maturities and the coming on at a lower rate and those 2 things sort of offsets.
So as I said in the first quarter maybe down 3 to 5 principally due to that cash position.
And we also talked about the fact that loan spreads overall are stabilizing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So after 1Q level relatively stable but 2Q and going forward your best guess at this point? Yes I'm going to stick to that sort of 90-day outlook and again the 90-day is down 3 to 5.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess is there anything unusual in your short-term borrowings that $30 billion or so at a rate of 161 basis points? Yes there is Matt.
We have our corporate payment systems rebates which go through that line.
And that looks -- it causes the rate to look a little higher than it really is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just separately the whole merchant lawsuit against Visa MasterCard over credit card interchange any thoughts on that or the time line of the progression there? No this is Richard.
Not really I mean this thing is age-old.
I think you know as much as I know about how much was put away years ago for a potential litigation in Class A shares.
And at this point we're not aware of anything more than you are.
And at this point I don't think we make any decisions based on the information that's not current.
Research Division</strong> I guess if there was ever a settlement charge I believe you're carrying your Class B at cost so you're probably a little better insulated there versus some banks that have sold their shares.
Yes that would be accurate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the wildcard is obviously the interchange rate if there is ever...
Yes that will be a wildcard capital W right? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Our next question comes from Brian Foran with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just on the merchant processing services fees and the acceleration in growth.
And I know some new business initiatives were referenced but also some accrual reversals.
Where do you think the kind of core year-over-year growth trend is going forward relative to the 17% we saw this quarter? So Brian the same-store sales which is a principal driver of that was up about just under 4% 3.8%.
And typically we grow just above same-store sales because of the fact the we're booking and gaining share and booking new merchants.
So I would say if you think about same-store sales at 4% perhaps a couple of points above that in terms of normalized growth rate on an ongoing basis.
Research Division</strong> And then in cards you're one of the few who's been able to grow balances recently without giving up on yields and your yields are actually up a little bit.
Is there anything obvious you're doing different than peers types of businesses or the offers you're running or some of the acquisitions you've done recently that's driving those yields to go up? It's Richard.
It's all of those things.
First of all we're not aggressive acquirers.
If you go to your mailbox you won't see us as often.
And if you do you won't see these 18-month 0% interest rate whatever.
And we just -- we don't do that because we want to book sustainable repeatable kind of clients.
So it's number one.
Number two our branches have kicked in big time in the last couple of years and become a much more significant part of originations where the relationship now is part of that checking account and the credit and debit relationship.
And so those are much higher-quality customers and the cost of acquisition is substantially lower.
And then lastly you are right the acquisitions that we pick up we only pick them up not for an asset build because we don't need that.
It's only because we think it builds on the core capability we have to expand that business line and grow the revenue that we've picked up and extend the relationship not because we just think it's an asset pickup.
So all of those.
And I think it goes back to our very conservative approach to underwriting.
And while we will miss volumes and give up what others might go for in the near term one thing you count on is we won't be apologizing for a year or 3 years from now.
Our next question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Ian Foley for Ken.
Quick question on the mortgage banking run rate obviously high this quarter given the refi activity.
Any thoughts on what industry volumes we set to and where gain-on-sale margins go from here? We did have a strong quarter.
And part of the reason was the increase in production versus the linked quarter and part of it was the increase in gain on sale.
As we look into the first quarter I would say that we sort of see stable levels.
About 70% of the activity in the fourth quarter was related to the refinance activity and that's driven by the low-rate environment.
And that continues as far as we can see here in the first few weeks of January.
Things are strong.
I mean I think quarter 4 was our second-largest quarter in history and 50% over quarter 3.
Quarter 1 is typically seasonally lower just because of the weather and the history that we've all seen.
But we expect that nice trend to continue.
That's one of our core strengths and we like exactly the amount that we do at the level we do it and it's a good companion to the rest of the loan growth that we have.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And one quick follow-up on -- I wanted to ask on corporate payments.
Year-over-year growth turned negative after a couple of good quarters of growth wanted to know if there's anything you could offer there.
Yes well it's slightly and it's partly because of the government business that we have.
Our corporate payments are huge for corporate America but they're also very significant for government businesses.
First of all quarter 4 is the worst quarter of the 4 because quarter 3 is the best.
It's the way the annual government calendar works and so that's usual.
Slight year-over-year would be just the fact that there is a trepidation right now by all government agencies to be watchful on what they're spending as you so well know given what's happened with the potential deficit.
So it's not significant.
We don't expect it to get worse or better either direction very much and the rest of this is just seasonal so I wouldn't read much into it.
Our next question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of follow-up questions on the mortgage servicing matters the $130 million in the quarter.
I know you mentioned that it was going to be continuing for the next couple of quarters.
And the question is two-part.
One is are you implying that we should be baking in $130 million a quarter for the next 2 or 3 quarters? And then I'm just trying to understand why it's over a couple of quarters as opposed to just being done all at once.
No Betsy I'm sorry.
Here's what's happening.
The $130 million it's a one-time event.
In addition to the $130 million in our professional services line we have about $38 million of servicing-related expenses related to the consent order.
That $38 million will continue.
That's a run rate item.
The $130 million that is a one-time item.
Yes thanks for the clarification because I would not want that to be mistaken.
We're not putting any of the run rate cost into that reserve.
We're simply putting a one-time issue out there for potential matters that we're working on right now with the government agencies.
And they are not related at all really to each other at that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the $38 million just goes into the expense line...
It's in there now...
Research Division</strong> And that's there in 4Q right now? Exactly.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just follow-up on Betsy.
Can you elaborate a little bit more on potential matters? I mean it seems like this is popping up in a couple of other earnings announcements.
And I think it's confusing the Street exactly what this stuff is.
Yes -- no.
I mean only because I don't really have that much to offer you.
We have estimable and probable beliefs that there will be some discussions between some regulatory agencies and some government agencies on this matter that you would know about which started with the AG's a year ago.
It is accurate that the banks to be on that.
The big 5 have been invited into the conversations and for that we believe we have something that we need to reserve for.
But to the extent that there has been no settlement there has not been a final decision we don't even know exactly who that would end up being for I feel comfortable that the amount is a good predictor of putting something behind us.
But it's not necessarily intended to be the final answer and it's not necessarily intended to be reflective of having completed any final decisions.
Research Division</strong> So not to put words in your mouth is this related to the AG robo-signing lawsuit that they're trying to expand to the top 14 services? It's partly that Paul.
It's related to any of the mortgage activities that you've read about in the last year where it could be AGs it could be agencies it could be regulators any of whom may want to levy any kind of an assessment against the banks that have been part of that consent order or found outside the consumer to have done anything less than perfect in the mortgage servicing area and we're part of that discussion.
It's not a very substantial thing for us but we thought appropriate to go ahead and call it now get the majority of it behind us market and do a reserve and then we'll provide some details around it as we get them in the coming quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this is not reps and warrants this is just related to the servicing side of it? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And then can you -- and you talked about you had some nice growth on residential lending and you talked a little bit about that's coming from refi activity as you guys growing market share in the mortgage business.
Can you elaborate a little bit more on exactly -- are these all jumbo loans? Are these 30-year fixed rate loans? Are these 5/1 adjustable loans? Can -- what type of parameters are you putting onto the balance sheet for these resi loans? Yes this is Bill Parker.
There's 2 main pieces there is -- about 2/3 of it is jumbos a lot of it coming through our private client group activity.
But another part of it is much smaller refinances that we do out of the branches.
Those are very low loan-to-value.
Those are primarily fixed rate loans generally 15- 20-year fixed rate loans.
They're shorter amortization loans.
Research Division</strong> And on the jumbo loans what type of -- are they usually a 30-year? Are they 5/1s? What type of rates are you giving on them? Well we stay competitive with the market so the spreads the all-in rates are 4% right now.
And we do do ARMs there.
We do do 30-year fixed.
So it's...
Research Division</strong> Are they mostly -- are the jumbos mostly ARMs or is a mix? It's a mix.
Our next question comes from Marty Mosby with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question about the growth in investment securities.
It seems that you're diverting that over to the held-to-maturity instead of putting it in available-for-sale.
Is it a product that you're putting over there? Or what's your thought process about putting it in that category? Marty this is Andy.
Most of our security purchases that we've increase over the last year are related to the liquidity coverage ratio under Basel III because we intend to hold those have been put in the held-to-maturity category.
And part of the reason for that is the volatility around the capital ratio does not include held-to-maturity so we're trying to manage the volatility.
And given the fact that we're going to hold them we thought that was the prudent place to put them.
LLC Research Division</strong> So it's like kind of defensive measure for when rates go up you wouldn't have to take the haircut into your common capital ratios.
Right.
Only available-for-sale goes to the Basel III ratio.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And then when you look at loan growth you're really looking at commercial and industrial line and the residential side which in my mind really reflects the consolidation back within the banking sector.
In other words as one part of the economy is working it's C&amp;I positioned to be able to capture more than your fair share of that.
And then on the mortgage side again you're being able to retain.
So those are the 2 places that we're seeing some real traction in the economy and a shift back to banking.
That would be fair.
We do see at U.S.
Bank I think we're different in this category Small Business.
We've had amazing growth in the last couple of years including just this last quarter.
Linked quarter growth was 1% year-over-year it's 5%.
The deposits are almost 3x those statistics.
And the reason for that Marty is Small Business was an area that we really started to put an energy in a couple of years ago.
It takes a while to get both the front and the back office reset.
The branches are now much more capable of culling officers and Small Business underwriters.
And to the extent that we've been able to accomplish that we're taking probably as much or more market share in the Small Business than we are on anything else at the bank including large corporate.
It doesn't move the needle very much but for us it's a very important undertow for the kind of future growth that we can expect especially when small business America starts to pick up and the recovery hits.
So you can't really see it in the numbers too much.
And then we're actually -- we're hanging in there pretty steady on autos and home equity and the other consumer loan categories.
You can see we're one of the few that ever has absolute growth in those categories.
We don't do it on giving up marginally we just underwrite the high qualities.
And we never underwrote at levels we couldn't continue through the recession because we didn't stretch in the first place.
So I think across the board virtually all of our categories show some form of strength and on a relative basis I think top-of-class.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just lastly on your payout ratio you said the long-term 60% to 80% range.
You kind of in answering another question said we might not get to that range.
Is it not that you wouldn't get to closer to the bottom end of that range at least next year? So you can do the math.
But I've made it clear we've gone close to the level that we've been permitted to on the dividends in the CCAR.
And that would be something below 30%.
And if I want to get to the 60% I'd have to do at least 30% or request that of the buybacks and we are in that range.
So to the extent that we get permission for that then we'll get into the lower end of the range that we've offered.
But as I also said to the earlier response that it may not be an exact mix I want not in one fell swoop.
So we'll get there over time and I think we'll make a good step forward in the next couple months.
Our next question comes from Mike Mayo with Credit Agricole.
Research Division</strong> This is Chris Spahr on behalf of Mike.
I just have a question regarding the Consumer Banking business line and the efficiency ratio it's in low 60s for a while now.
I'm just wondering where you think it can go over time as the mortgage expense reduces.
And if so will you be shifting your kind of your overall efficiency target from the low 50s to the mid 40s or the -- where it's been prior to the crisis? Chris it's funny.
Don't be disappointed in me but we don't ever look at the efficiency ratio as a measure for the Consumer Bank.
It's just an outcome.
You're right in knowing that we put our national consumer lending businesses and our mortgage business in the consumer line.
So to the extent that the mortgage cost are higher during this consent order and the cost of compliance that's definitely a nonsustainable activity.
I'll also remind you the branches are the biggest part of that.
And right now a branch doesn't make as much as money as it used to unless it can get back to making a lot of loans at really nice margins.
It's a big data deposit collector at amazing levels and that's actually an expense to them the way we collect it.
So overall I'm not surprised it's higher than it's been in the run rate and we actually are quite a big believer that the branches have a role in the future it might be a slightly adjusted one.
But I wouldn't read too much into that except to say that given the moments in time for the reasons I described it's probably looking less efficient.
But as a collector of deposits and a creator of credit cards and things I mentioned earlier it's still got a great deal of value here.
Our next question comes from Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Richard could you just talk a little bit about your outlook for the payments businesses as a whole? I mean given the sort of slowing global environment we've got right now is that still going to be a growth area for your company? And is that going to be a target for acquisitions? Good question.
Yes and yes.
And as it relates to growth one of the reasons is because we were primarily a merchant acquirer domestically for a few years.
Few years ago we moved into Western Europe in great stead.
Now we're moving into Eastern Europe Central America Mexico South America.
And those are all actually good moves because those markets some of them were actually have a higher forecast for growth than the ones that we're in.
And we're growing substantially in all of those markets even the old-fashioned ones.
So I like the fact that our growth is greater organically than maybe the market share is growing itself.
But we get this chance to I think grow on a troubling basis.
Acquisitions absolutely.
This payment business that we created for acquisitions this international payments capability it's really plug-and-play.
So when we entered into Brazil last year we were literally going in there and in a matter of a couple of weeks we were able to transact for merchants in Brazil in their native currency and be up and running faster than anybody else who came into that kind of expanding world.
On the traditional credit card both corporate and consumer cards we still like the business absent some big surprise where someone could take away the metrics and value of what it is to be a card issuer it's a great relationship tool for our customers.
They like the rewards programs which I know we have some of the best cards.
And we compete very effectively with these monolines and those who are doing this as a majority of their business.
So we're going to keep growing it.
I think we grew our portfolio more than most.
And if I can't do it organically I'll continue to seek acquisitions in the more traditional credit card.
So we like it across the board.
I see it as a cylinder that's been operating at 60% during the recession but just ready to be rubbed into things when the world gets better.
And we'll take it here and we'll take it overseas.
LLC Research Division</strong> And also I was going to ask you the question about the sort of changing view of branch banking in the industry right now.
And you alluded to it in the prior question just saying that branches will still have a role although it may be altered.
Can you just talk about that a little bit? Yes I'd be happy to.
First of all the transaction activity in the branches more likely I think we all agree is going to come down.
People have with mobile banking and just changing behaviors they don't see the need to come into a branch as often as they used to meet with the teller for a nonconsultative activity just to move money across the counter.
So that is what starts to change.
But I think we also see an entirely higher value of this guidance-giving consultative role that you have for an investment decision a trust a long-term family trust an opportunity to buy a home.
And in this case with interest rates low you can't see the value of what branches will become when rates start to move up again.
And the traditional old-fashioned CD which just rolls over on its own starts to become less attractive like it was 5 or 6 years ago because there is a less-insured alternative in a mutual fund or an annuity that really deserves a lot of conversation and some eyeball-to-eyeball opportunity or branches will kick in big time and will have all kinds of opportunities for them to become more effective.
So my view of the branch is you shrink the teller line you increase the privacy areas you change your hours you make yourself more available to people when they need to come and talk about something private and personal and you probably have a different staffing composition.
But you still have those locations on the corner of Main and Wall I guess for people to come in and do what they can't do over the phone and probably for a long time won't want to do online.
Our next question comes from Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just Andy a follow-up in terms of the fee outlook in Durbin in particular.
You've mentioned that there's a number of kind of strength in terms of the fee businesses that can help offset that.
I'm just curious again kind of follow-up on the previous question on the merchant payments business.
There was commentary in the release surrounding some pricing changes and in part tied to some of the legislative mitigation efforts.
I'm just curious with that.
Does that mean you're potentially accelerating kind of that 50% offset target that you'd previously mentioned? No.
So that was considered in the 50% Todd.
So just to be specific $77 million was the impact to Durbin in quarter 4 full year run rate is just over $300 million.
Quarter 4 is the first quarter that reflected it.
We do have some mitigation in there as we talked about before.
I would say we talked about 30% to 50% mitigation.
And right now we're on the low end and we expect to continue to have different pricing mechanisms to get us closer to that 50% by the end of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is that something again outside of the payments business but something more along the lines in terms of the traditional consumer pricing product packaging that sort of thing? Right.
I would say the principal mitigation is our Checking With Choice product which is a product that charges for a checking account but has very clearly articulated methods to not be charged $6.95 with electronic statements $8.95 with paper.
But there are a number of mechanisms that customers can undertake to not be charged.
And it's very clear and it's actually proven to be a quite popular product.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just unrelated just in terms of credit on the restructured credit line.
I'm just curious Bill.
When should we expect to start seeing kind of that inflection point on the restructured line? And just obviously been a very successful program for the company I'm just curious as we get to the later stages of the cycle when we might start to see that potentially moderate.
You're looking at troubled debt restructuring? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes.
So I mean because of the accounting changes that took place third quarter and then fourth quarter it's probably still going to go up for the next several quarters before it truly inflects.
So I would actually think of later in 2012.
But some of the categories we're starting to see -- we do fewer modifications now on the residential than we did.
And that's just because we're getting further and further into the cycle and our delinquencies keep going down so...
Research Division</strong> Right.
And is there any impact or opportunity as it relates to kind of the new HARP II program that came out? Is that influencing that at all? Or is it again kind of the majority the proprietary mod programs the bank has implemented? Well the HARP will be primarily on our service portfolio our Freddie-Fannie agency portfolio.
So that won't be in our on-balance sheet numbers.
So the on-balance sheet is proprietary programs HAMP programs.
That's what we focus on on-balance sheet.
Our next question comes from Chris Mutascio with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Richard I wonder if you could help me out with a macro question on C&amp;I loan growth.
And if you had covered this in your opening remarks I apologize.
But some of my banks are saying or all my banks are saying somewhat the same thing that line utilization rates really are not improving.
And we're taking -- the growth we're getting is we're taking share from others.
If that was true then it'd be a zero-sum gain when I look at the H.8 data.
In other words the C&amp;I loan growth and the H.8 data wouldn't show the growth we've seen over the last 2 to 3 quarters.
So where is this coming from? And more importantly could some of the growth be attributable to customers taking advantage of accelerated depreciation on CapEx before year end? Well the last part is yes for sure.
And we think that that was present everywhere.
I'm going to agree with you emphatically.
I mean for years I've sat here and before I was the CEO saying "How can everybody be growing market share if isn't growing that fast?" And the H.8 data sometime surprises me because I think we have probably the best loan growth and sometimes it sounds like we're right on average.
So I think it misses some of the refinances some of this portfolio sales and the movement in and out of the system.
I think it's a gross number.
So I don't count on it by the way.
That's too much of a proxy maybe just a direction on trends.
I will tell you this though the C&amp;I loan business is strong because customers are now mature in this recession.
They know what they're doing.
They've reset their balance sheets.
They're hoarding cash to be prepared.
But those M&amp;A opportunities coming to the bank in the form of a loan or a financing opportunity if they're going to do some form of growth they're going to come to the bank only after they've expended their own deposits.
So I've said this before but as long as Chris the money in the banks are this high and much of it is coming from corporations and consumers it's your first proxy that they're not going to use the lines of credit they have.
In our case we all do our own definition but we measure our wholesale lines of credit not consumer.
And we are as flat as flat could be for the last couple of quarters.
We are growing commitments like 11% to 12% but the reasons we're hitting a reduced to flat utilization is because the people we're adding aren't even using the line they're getting at the levels that our current book is.
So it's a good news when things pop.
It's an expected outcome when people are trying to prepare for potentially a future that they didn't want to be surprised again.
But it doesn't really put any money in the bank except for the original origination fee.
So I think it's okay for you to hear that utilization is down or flat.
It's consistent to say the commitments are up so people are booking more.
Those are actually related but I do think the H.8 data is a gross number that overestimates some of the activity in the business because I don't think you're seeing that much loan growth all together not on the net.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If people are taking advantage of the accelerated depreciation would you expect C&amp;I loan growth to slow in the first half of 2012 versus the second half of 2011? As a matter of fact I think that will.
It won't be just for that it's seasonal anyway.
But we've enjoyed a really robust continued trend.
We will continue to grow our loans.
It will be something less than this quarter but more like last year in the first quarter because we don't see that same robustness.
And I think it has a lot to do with what you just said.
But I'm not trying to telegraph we won't have growth I'm just telling you that the 2.4% total book was probably a high watermark for last year and we won't see that again until later this year when the year ages and things become a little more normal.
And I'm glad for the question because I think it's important people don't think the lack of loan growth getting bigger and bigger is a consideration that the economy isn't strong.
I think the fact that there's loan growth at all says that the economy is doing pretty well.
So people are going to put it in cash before they take the bank's money and I think that's important to note.
Our next question comes from John Dunn with Meredith Whitney Group.
Just one more branch question if you wouldn't mind.
Can you give us a sense of what the profitability of a hybrid branch versus a traditional bank branch would be? And then I think you had in the past referenced 25 to 50 branch openings per year.
Is that still your outlook? Yes.
I'll answer the nonnumeric number.
Andy is the smart guy of the 2 of us.
We are still going to open 25 to 50 net locations wholly.
Almost 1/3 of our locations now are what you call hybrid.
They are on corporate sites they're in grocery stores and they have been extremely useful to us.
I think people used to think that we are building branches on the cheap.
I'd like to think we're actually seeing the future realizing that the transaction part of branches don't need to be the old-fashioned brick-and-mortar.
And that's going to continue.
I will tell you though that it's the same thing.
It's about half the cost to breakeven on a nontraditional branch as is the traditional.
It's doesn't grow to be as big over 20 years as a traditional.
But at the end of the day they both need to make loans to make money for the bank.
They just need to be originators of mortgages credit cards and old-fashioned auto loans.
And those are all starting to come back but they're not at the levels they were before the recession.
So in a relative basis they're both under some form of stress.
The traditional branches will take longer to recover because it's got a bigger expense base.
But I'm glad that we have both mixes because based on my answer to Nancy we're going to need those traditional locations if they're in the right place and the right community for those more traditional questions.
And Andy on the financial side...
Yes on the financial side just building on what you said.
When both are mature the traditional branch because it has more loan activity is the more profitable.
But the in-store builds to a breakeven in a more rapid fashion because of the lower investment requirement at times 0.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now turn the conference back to Judy Murphy for closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you all for listening to our review of our fourth quarter results.
And as usual if you have any follow-up questions please feel free to give us call.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to U.S.
Bancorp's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately 11:00 a.m.
Eastern Daylight Time through Tuesday April 24 at midnight Eastern Daylight Time.
I will now turn the conference call over to Judy Murphy Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Brooke and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorp's first quarter 2012 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analysts' schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Judy and good morning everyone.
We're pleased to share our results with you today and I'll begin with the highlights on Page 3 of the presentation.
U.S.
Bank recorded net income of $1.3 billion for the first quarter of 2012 or $0.67 per diluted common share.
Total net revenue was higher by 9.1% over the same quarter of 2011 driven by 7.3% growth in net interest income and 11.3% growth in fee revenue.
Total average loans grew year-over-year and linked quarter by 6.4% and 1.5% respectively and we also experienced strong loan growth and total average deposits of 11.7% over the prior year and 2.2% linked quarter.
Credit Quality continued to improve as net charge-offs declined by 8.2% and nonperforming assets decreased in total by 8.5% from the prior quarter.
We continue to generate significant capital each quarter.
Our Tier 1 common equity ratio was 8.7% at March 31 or 8.4% using anticipated Basel III guidelines while the Tier 1 capital ratio ended the quarter at 10.9%.
Capital actions this quarter included a 56% dividend increase and we repurchased 16 million shares of common stock during the first quarter.
The 5-quarter trends of our industry-leading performance metrics are shown on the left-hand side of Slide 4.
Return on average assets in the first quarter was 1.6% and return on average common equity was 16.2%.
We've stated that our company can achieve a normalized ROA in the range of 1.6% to 1.9% and an ROE between 16% and 19%.
Both performance ratios have now reached their respective ranges.
Our net interest margin and efficiency ratio are shown on the graph on the right-hand side of Slide 4.
This quarter's net interest margin of 3.6% was 9 basis points lower than the same quarter of last year but equal to the prior quarter and Andy will discuss the margin in more detail in just a couple of minutes.
Our efficiency ratio for the first quarter was 51.9% and consistent with our expectation this ratio remained in the low 50s.
Turning to Slide 5.
Our capital position remains strong and continues to grow.
At March 31 our Tier 1 common equity ratio using anticipated Basel III guidelines was 8.4%.
At 8.4% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement and above the level of which we believe we need to be.
Turning to Slide 6.
On March 13 after receiving the results of our 2012 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review from the Federal Reserve we announced a $0.28 or 56% increase in our annual dividend.
In addition to the dividend increase the board authorized a new 100 million share repurchase program.
As we've indicated in the past our long-term goal is to return between 60% and 80% of our earnings to our shareholders through dividends and buybacks.
During the first quarter we returned 66% of our earnings to our shareholders 29% of which in the form of dividends and 37% in the form of share buybacks.
Average total loans outstanding increased by $12.6 billion or 6.6% year-over-year.
As expected linked quarter loan growth and average total of loans was 1.5%.
Significantly new loan originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments totaled over $36 billion this quarter.
This represents a 4.5% year-over-year increase in new and renewed lending activity.
Total revolving corporate and commercial commitments outstanding increased year-over-year by 25.7% and 5.1% on a linked quarter basis while utilization remained fairly consistent at approximately 25%.
Total average deposits increased by $24 billion or 11.7% over the same quarter last year while total average deposits grew by $5 billion on a linked quarter basis or 2.2%.
Turning to Slide 8.
The company reported total net revenue in the first quarter of $4.9 billion an increase of 9.1% over the prior quarter's -- year's quarter but 3.4% less than previous quarter.
Recall however that the fourth quarter included a $263 million litigation settlement gain.
Excluding this gain linked quarter revenue growth was $88 million or 1.8%.
The company's revenue growth can be attributed to both our balance sheet and our fee businesses growing as we continue to benefit from our investments in growth initiatives over the past years.
Turning to Slide 9 and Credit Quality.
First quarter total net charge-offs declined by 8.2% from the fourth quarter of 2011 while nonperforming assets decreased by 8.5% or 5.9% excluding covered assets.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 1.09% improving from the 1.19% recorded in the fourth quarter.
Turning to Slide 10.
As the graph on the left illustrates early- and late-stage delinquencies excluding covered assets improved this quarter.
On the right-hand side of Slide 10 you can see that the trend in criticized assets continues to show improvement.
Both of these statistics provide us with confidence that net charge-offs and nonperforming assets will trend lower in the second quarter of 2012 although net charge-offs may show a more modest reduction than in recent quarters as the pace of improvement slows in the consumer categories.
Given the first quarter's credit results and the expected improvement going forward we released $90 million of reserves compared with $125 million in the fourth quarter and $50 million in the first quarter of 2011.
I'll now turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Richard.
Slide 11 gives you a view of our first quarter 2012 results versus comparable time periods.
Diluted EPS of $0.67 was 28.8% higher than the first quarter of 2011 and 2.9% lower than the prior quarter.
Recall that the fourth quarter EPS included $0.05 related to 2 notable items.
Slide 12 lists the key drivers of the company's first quarter earnings.
The 27.9% increase in net income year-over-year was the result of a 9.1% increase in net revenue and a decrease in the provision for credit losses partially offset by a 10.6% increase in noninterest expense.
Net income was slightly lower on a linked quarter basis.
The unfavorable variance was the result of a 3.4% decline in net revenue partially offset by lower noninterest expense and a $16 million decrease in the provision for credit losses.
Excluding the impact of the 2 notable items detailed on Slide 13 net revenue increased by 1.8% quarter-over-quarter and noninterest expense was flat.
Slide 13 provides you more detail about the notable items that impacted the comparison of our first quarter to prior periods.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 total noninterest income included a $263 million litigation settlement gain related to the termination of a merchant processing referral agreement.
We also booked $130 million expense accrual related to mortgage servicing and foreclosure-related matters.
On a net basis these 2 items increased fourth quarter net income by approximately $92 million and EPS by $0.05.
The first quarter of 2011 included a $46 million gain related to the acquisition of First Community Bank of New Mexico from the FDIC.
Also noted in the bottom of Slide 13 are 2 revenue and expense classification changes that had an impact on comparisons to prior periods.
Moving to Slide 14.
Net interest income increased year-over-year by $183 million or 7.3%.
The increase was largely driven by the $26.1 billion or 9.5% increase in average earning assets as well as the benefit from strong growth in low-cost deposits.
The growth in average earning assets was driven by planned increases in the securities portfolio and growth in average total loans partially offset by a lower cash position at the Federal Reserve.
The net interest margin of 3.60% was 9 basis points lower than the same quarter of last year due primarily to the expected increase in lower yielding investment securities partially offset by lower cash balances at the Fed and the inclusion of a credit card balance transfer fee.
On a linked quarter basis net interest income was higher by $17 million.
Average earning assets grew by $4.9 billion and net interest margin was flat to the prior quarter.
Margin was slightly better than expected this quarter primarily due to the inclusion of balance transfer fees and lower cash balances at the Fed.
Given the current rate environment we expect that net interest margin to be down a few basis points in the second quarter.
The investment securities portfolio at March 31 totaled $74.3 billion.
The balances were higher than December 31 as we took the opportunity to manage down our cash balances and purchase investment securities.
We expect to main the investments -- maintain the investment securities portfolio at or around this level for the next few quarters.
Slide 15 provides you with more detail behind the changes in average total loans outstanding.
Average total loans grew by 6.4% year-over-year.
Excluding covered loans our runoff portfolio average total loans increased by 8.7% year-over-year.
As you can see on the chart the increase in average total loans was principally due to strong growth in commercial loans and residential mortgages of 17.3% and 19.1% respectively.
Commercial loan growth has continued to accelerate over the past 5 quarters while growth in consumer lending has been less robust.
On a linked quarter basis the 1.5% increase in average total loans outstanding was also primarily driven by an increase in commercial loans which grew by 3.4% and residential real estate loans which grew by 4.3%.
Slide 16 provides more detail on the growth in total deposits over the past 5 quarters.
Average total deposits grew by $24 billion or 11.7% year-over-year.
On a linked quarter basis average deposits increased by $5 billion or 2.2%.
Importantly average low-cost deposits accounted for the majority of the increases on a year-over-year and linked quarter basis.
Slide 17 provides more details around the changes in noninterest income on a year-over-year and linked quarter basis.
Noninterest income increased by 11.3% over the same quarter of 2011.
Mortgage Banking revenue was very strong this quarter as production increased by 58% year-over-year and gain-on-sale margins improved.
Offsetting a portion of the growth in origination and sales fee income were an unfavorable net change in MSR valuation and related hedging of approximately $32 million and an increase in the repurchase reserve.
In addition to Mortgage Banking merchant processing services deposit service charges and commercial products revenue also posted solid increases year-over-year.
These positive variances were partially offset by lower credit card or debit card fees due to legislative changes to debit card interchange as well as the change in classification of balance transfer fees.
Offsetting the impact of these 2 items were legislative-related mitigation activity and higher transaction volumes.
ATM services revenue was lower as the result of the change related to revenue passed through to others.
And finally other income in the first quarter of 2011 included a $46 million gain related to the FDIC transaction.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest income was lower by $192 million or 7.9%.
This favorable variance was primarily the result of the merchant settlement gain in the fourth quarter of 2011 seasonally lower payments-related revenue and the revenue classification changes partially offset by very strong Mortgage Banking activity.
Slide 18 highlights noninterest expense which was higher year-over-year by $246 million or 10.6%.
The majority of the increase can be attributed to: higher compensation and benefits expense representing additional staffing in the branches mortgage-related activities and business expansion initiatives; an increase in professional services primarily due to technology and foreclosure review projects; as well as marketing and business development expense and other expense related to regulatory and insurance-related costs.
These higher costs were partially offset by a decrease in net occupancy related to the change in ATM revenue pass-through to others.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest expense was lower by $136 million or 5% primarily due to the fourth quarter mortgage servicing accrual occupancy expense partially offset by seasonally higher employee benefits.
The tax rate on a taxable equivalent basis was 30.9% in the first quarter of 2012 compared with 30.5% in the fourth quarter of 2011 and 29% in the first quarter of 2011.
Slide 19 provides updated detail on the company's mortgage purchase-related expense and the reserve for unexpected losses on repurchases and make-whole payments.
For outstanding repurchases and make-whole request balances at March 31 was $134 million compared with $105 million at December 31.
The increase in addition to recent changes in the GSE sampling method specifically higher sampling sizes caused us to increase our mortgage representation and warranties reserve to $202 million.
We do however expect mortgage repurchase requests to remain fairly stable over the next several quarters.
I'll now talk -- turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Andy.
And to conclude our formal remarks I turn your attention to Slide 20.
The momentum continues.
Words from the cover of our annual report that appropriately describe our 2011 accomplishments and performance and our first quarter results demonstrated the momentum we've built over the past several years continues to build into the new year.
In the first quarter we grew our balance sheet and our customer base.
We grew our net revenue.
We continued to invest in our organic growth initiatives as well as small but important fill-in acquisitions including: the 10-branch banking franchise of BankEast in Knoxville Tennessee; the Indiana Corporate Trust business from UMB Bank; and an institutional trust business from Union Bank in California.
In the first quarter our credit quality continued to improve.
Our capital liquidity positions remained strong.
And we grew our earnings and achieved industry-leading performance metrics for the quarter and we were able to return 66% of our earnings to our shareholders through dividends and buybacks.
We continue to benefit from our investments in growth initiatives and innovation and in acquisitions.
We continue to benefit from our prudent risk management and our diversified business model and we benefit from our markets both established and new.
Today we'll be holding our Annual Meeting here in Minneapolis our headquarter city.
In addition to conducting the official business of the meeting I'll be sharing our story of how we have managed this company through the downturn and we are continuing to capitalize on the momentum we've built.
I'll also tell the shareholders how exceedingly proud I am of what we've accomplished and of the 64 000 remarkable and engaged employees that have contributed to our success.
I look forward to the coming year as we grow even stronger for the benefit of our customers employees communities and importantly our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Bill and I would now be happy to answer questions from the audience.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> First of all I guess I just wonder if you can give some color commentary around loan demand trends through the quarter.
Do you still see -- are there any particular pockets of strength weakness sector -- either by sector or by geography? Sure.
This is Richard.
As we stated 90 days ago we thought that the trends would slow from quarter 4 partly because of the seasonality of the new year.
And we saw the ending of the quarter kind of slowing down and we turned out to be correct.
In this case we're starting to see what I expected was a slow but seasonal increase as we move into quarter 2.
Quarter 1 got stronger as it aged and quarter 2 is looking at least as good as quarter 1 if not with slight biases on the positive side.
It's across-the-board Chris.
Corporate Banking commercial banking Community Banking small business consumer credit card they're all showing slight improvements in terms of volume and applications.
All of them are showing improvement in credit quality.
And except for Commercial Real Estate where we see strengths on the coasts and the larger cities that kind of line the 2 oceans we don't see any other distinct geography to note except a nice steady kind of even increase across all business lines across all states where we do business in all 50.
So we're feeling quite positive about the year as it ages.
And as spring has sprung we're looking -- things looking up pretty nicely.
I've got Bill Parker here with me to maybe bring a little more color to the quality and the application volumes.
Yes.
So I'll highlight small business because we did see a pretty good uptick in our small business application volume.
It's been double digit in all of our different areas whether it's SBA or the branch-originated small business.
So that bodes well to see some strength in the small business markets.
And I'll just comment on the credit and Commercial Real Estate.
Multifamily is the one area that's very strong and particularly on the coast.
In the other areas Class A properties are highly valued.
But if you get below Class A and the other asset classes it's still -- I don't want to say weak but it's not as strong so.
But overall pretty positive.
And we won't  we've said this before.
We can compete on price and we will to the right level but we won't engage in price competition where it doesn't make sense for our company.
And we won't get our loan volume on lower underwriting.
We simply won't do that and we haven't had to and we're not going to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then the other thing I wanted to ask about was your mortgage servicing portfolio has started to grow significantly and it had been flat the prior couple of quarters.
And the last 2 quarters it's kind of grown significantly.
I'm wondering is that just a function of the strong production volume that we've had recently or is -- or do you see that as a particular strategic growth opportunity in that some of the larger players are probably constrained in how they can grow their servicing business? Yes and yes.
So it is a function of -- the latter informs the former.
So we're having really nice market share improvement because we've stayed very active in this.
We've added a lot of resources to continue to be relevant as a mortgage originator and a servicer.
And because the market -- the dynamics have changed we continue to enjoy even greater growth maybe than we might have thought.
We have no limits on the kind of resources that we might pursue to this level because we see a market shift that you only get once in a lifetime.
And we intend to enjoy it now and come out of this as probably I don't know in the top 5 for sure of mortgage servicing and production and we're seeing that to come sooner than we thought.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And specifically that -- is that something that you could imagine getting into the kind of stand-alone mortgage company kind of business and through acquisition? Or do you want to maintain mortgage production primarily out of the branches? Well we do it through the branches and through corresponding networks so that's not going to change.
But like everything else we don't want to be dominant in any one line of business.
So no more that I want to be a credit card company with branches attached to it I don't want to be a mortgage company with a credit card business.
We really want to be a business that does the work for most of our customers and meet their needs where we know them firsthand and where there's opportunity to extend that based on market share improvement we'll take that as well.
But Chris you'll see us continue that kind of balanced view of revenue achieved through spread and fee income on a basis of diversity of types of business as well.
Your next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Could you maybe kind of flesh out some of your comments on the capital front? I mean obviously you're now kind of -- you're past the point where you would likely see any SIFI buffer or anything like that and obviously 2/3 of the capital is a nice capital return.
But as you kind of look out there are there acquisition opportunities that we should be thinking about? Or how could that evolve over the course of the next year? Moshe this is Andy.
So our Tier 1 common Basel III standard is at 8.4% probably a little higher than we would plan to be at and part of that is the volatility around that ratio as it relates to OCI and the available-for-sale portfolio as we enjoyed a bigger gain this quarter due to lower interest rates.
So you'll see us somewhere in that 8.2% to 8.4% range depending upon that gain.
Our capital plan was approved.
And as we've talked about we have a target of that sort of 30 to 40 dividends 30 to 40 buybacks somewhere within that range.
That leaves us plenty of room for opportunities that present themselves in the marketplace for portfolio purchases or small deals just like we've done been in the past.
And I think we're sort of in a normal regular ongoing capital distribution methodology as we sit today with some dividends some buybacks and some return for internal investment.
And Moshe what you saw last quarter would be a great proxy for future quarters in terms of M&amp;A branch opportunities where they come along FDIC or otherwise payments businesses corporate trust opportunities.
The stuff you've seen us do over the last 4 years 5 years.
We see a pipeline for that opportunity.
And as Andy said we have plenty of room left within our retained capital to do that.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on the Corporate Trust.
I mean there've been some recent lawsuits looking at the questions around the trustees' responsibility as -- in some of the sub-prime securitizations.
Do you have kind of any thoughts on -- as to how that might shake out? Yes absolutely.
I'm glad you brought it up.
And as you know it's not new.
We've been dealing with this for as long as I've been here.
One of the benefits of Corporate Trust is it's a really good business particularly when the market is strong.
It's a good relationship and fee business and it provides -- there's pretty high cost of entry.
So you're either in it and you're good or you're not in it at all.
We've got the benefit of being in it and good.
But with it comes the risk of confusion and it's a reputation risk that we manage every single day.
And it can be anything from foreclosed properties where we are often cited as the owner of the property or REO property where there's some problem with the quality of the structure and we're identified as the owner.
And it turns out we're most often the trustee.
And in fact that causes people to be confused because that's still a complicated topic.
When a company might file bankruptcy and we're acting as trustee it looks like we were the lender who put them into a bankruptcy.
And then more times than not as you're talking about now in some of the MBS and other kinds of structured deals we are often hired in as the appropriate legal source and the broker between 2 parties and often confused as the party in between.
So we will deal with that confusion because the business is so good and it has such a great upside potential and we're so deep into it.
We just recognize it's something we have to manage.
And each time we get a chance to clarify and educate either for us or civic leaders who are confused about it we find an opportunity to do so.
But it will take quite a while for people to understand what trustee looks like.
I'll close and give you my pseudo-legal point though that as a trustee we don't have the rights to reach in and touch the properties or change the rules of the engagement on the escrow.
It's our responsibility to execute as the law would have us and to do that within the bounds of whatever the construct of the trustee relationship is.
It's not ours to overreach or to step in and fix something we weren't asked to do despite the temptation by sometimes people who want us to do that.
So we'll deal with the confusion.
And the more times people give us a chance to clarify the more times we'll take it.
Your next question comes from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> You've obviously been outgrowing the industry in the loans.
You've talked about some NIM pressure going forward.
When you put it all together do you think you can still grow net interest income dollars from here? I think the short answer to that Matt is yes.
So our NIM pressure was principally related to our increase in our securities portfolio and that's true on a year-over-year as well as linked quarter basis.
We took advantage of our long cash position this quarter to accelerate some of our purchases.
But I think we're going to remain fairly stable in that securities portfolio going forward.
And we have a good amount of debt at higher costs rolling off in the second half of the year so that'll create some stabilization.
As I mentioned I expect us to be down a few basis points in the second quarter but then I expect some stabilization.
Let me also add Matt that I know this would be the case for everybody.
But as well as we're doing on loan growth we're doing even better in commitment growth.
And while that doesn't show up in the balance sheet it shows up in the future.
And I think you're all going to be very pleased that whenever the robust economy comes back and it will we're going to stand to enjoy a second round of I think a comparative benefit because the commitment growth is so significant and yet to be tapped because utilization stays flat.
We're actually quite optimistic that to answer your question with a strong yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separate topic in terms of buybacks and just capital return overall.
Not that I'm looking for a specific price in which you'd be buying back stock but you have had some banks come out and say "We'll be aggressive buyers up to here." And I'm just wondering conceptually one how you think about valuation? And then two one could make the argument that maybe special dividends over time might make more sense.
So how do you just think about balancing that over time? Yes.
Matt this is Andy.
As you know the trade-off with the buyback is buying back the stock at times 0 or the cash flows at times 0 plus 1 and forward.
And we do have a specific view on that.
We look at that every month in the perspective of our company.
And we have a very good view on the future.
At this price we are still buying back our stock.
And there is a price well above the level we are at today that we would have consideration about holding back a bit but we're not to that level now.
So we're very comfortable buying back at today's price.
We're also comfortable with the balance between dividends and buybacks because it gives us the opportunity to move in terms of buybacks up or down give other opportunities in the marketplace that we talked about before.
Your next question comes from Erika Penala with BofA Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on home equity classification on the credit side.
I know this is a much smaller piece of your pie but we saw from larger banks an increase in problem loans as they reclassified some of their seconds that are still paying as the first is in trouble.
Did you stick to that cost or did you also stick to that same classification this quarter? Or is that already reflected in your numbers? Erika I'm going to have Bill answer the technical issue.
But for us I just want to highlight it is very very small and the numbers that you've seen from some of the larger banks are significantly greater than.
So for us we're talking $15 million to $30 million well below the $1 billion-plus that you've seen elsewhere.
And so for us we believe that the classification we have today is accurate and reflects appropriately and we did do some actions last quarter that Bill can talk about.
But I'll also say that if we discover that there's a prevailing view on how things should be handled then we can do that.
But if you look at our nonperforming loans they improved by almost 8% linked quarter.
If we were taking that $15 million to $30 million they would've improved by 7%.
So just to reiterate the immateriality of it and the fact that it's not a big number is important for me to highlight.
And Bill you might talk a little deeper dive.
Yes.
So I mean if -- our home equity portfolio has 2 distinguishing features.
One a lot of it is -- about $5 billion of it is actually lines that are in the first lien position so there's not even another loan to look at so obviously that's very high quality.
And then those that we do service about 30% of the portfolio that's where that $15 million $30 million comes from.
So it's just not a material number.
The other part of what that reclassification was about was really on the reserving side and that's I'd argue the more important side.
And we'd implemented that sometime last year.
So we feel very comfortable with the adequacy of our reserves on home equity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to veer into another topic.
Richard could you give us a sense or an update on your ability to reprice the deposit product in 2012 on the retail side? I know a lot of banks had talked about mitigation efforts sort of in the first half of last year in anticipation of debit interchange reform.
And just wanted to get a sense on how some of the fee transfer to the consumer is panning out this year.
Erika we've said that of the total loss of revenue that was derived by CARD Act Reg E and Durbin that we would eventually get to 50% of that back.
And I think we said we were at 30% last time.
Our plan is to get to that 50% by year's end and I also said it won't be before year's end because we're going to be very thoughtful about this.
But I'm comfortable we can do it.
And in doing so there's a couple things.
One is market share gain really helps a lot.
You can improve your fee revenue by just having more customers who are paying the current fees that you offer and feel good about that with our Checking With Choice and some of the way we packaged our products people are seemingly happy to pay those fees and get the services we provide especially some of the things we're adding to the capabilities like mobile and more technology.
I would say however there will also be some increases in certain fee categories that we will continue to provide because we need to do that to return to the shareholders what they've been waiting for.
But we had to be very thoughtful about market positions and we are not a one-size-fits-all.
We have basically business in every state.
We have 25 states where our consumer business is located.
And if we have to have 168 different solutions for that many different pricing markets which is how many we have we would do that.
So we're going to be very careful and thoughtful and look at where the market competition will allow us to increase the current fees.
And we're really going to go after with some market share grab and competing to have more customers that pay what we think is a fair assessment for the service we provide.
Nothing magic.
And what I did say is we will get to that 50%.
We'll use the whole year to get there.
I'm not rushing it.
We've got a good momentum everywhere else.
And I'm not going to mess up what's happening right now and the good momentum we have in the branches where they're getting more customers deeper relationships and not putting them through the fits and starts of having to decide what prices we change all the time because we're very consistent and I wanted to give them that benefit.
Your next question comes from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just a broader question.
You guys are executing well.
Your profitability ratio is within the targeted ranges.
Kind of wondering where do you think you're still under-earning whether it's low interest rates or mitigating some of the reg reform where are areas that you can improve the profitability over the next couple years? Well the best part of the story and I mean the best part of the story is that we're just so not finished getting great at what we already do.
So hard as it is to talk about organic growth and pursuit of investments from prior periods that's really what the story is all about.
And in fact John the recent quarter 1 2012 was as good as it was was because of things we did in third quarter 2010 and the commitments we're making through employee engagement and technology.
So I would tell you we hit our peak in capital investments in 2010 but we'll have to continue to work that off.
Our investments in the first 5 years of 2001 to 2006 were 45% less than they were in the last 5 years of 2006 to 2011.
So we've spent quite a bit of money with your all's knowledge and permission to reinvest in the company and that's starting to show up in capital.
Acquisitions are all accretive most of the time on day 1 and I think those continue to show as beneficial.
But this last part is organic growth.
And I know it's so unexciting to talk about but it's exactly what's happening here.
And so from Wealth Management building out to become a national first-class wealth manager to adding our new Ascent ultra-high net worth business which is only a couple of quarters old to this amazing buildout you've seen us take to a national level on our Corporate Banking capabilities and then adding our payment skills across the globe and our consumer retail bank and small business now taking altogether new levels of performance.
Add it all up and that's what you get.
So I think on top of that a stock market that's actually at best kind of flattish and interest rates which we all know are as low as they're going to be we've got upside on every single cylinder.
And if this is an 8-cylinder car we're running at about 4.5 right now.
So if you like what you see now just wait until things start getting better.
I think there's nothing but upward bias toward what we can do the old-fashion organic way.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Richard that's helpful.
Maybe a question for Bill.
Where are you on the kind of cycle of reserve release and how do you see that playing out over the next couple quarters? And then also if you could just comment what drove the higher reserve build for the rep in warranty? Is that due to higher origination volume or something else? Yes.
So the reserve release I mean we're in the point of the credit cycle where we'll continue to get credit improvement probably for another 18 months.
We have Commercial Real Estate assets that still need to be resolved and that's going to take some time.
And some of the residential mortgage portfolios are still stressed so that's going to take time.
But the improvement is slowing.
I mean some of our portfolios are performing at extremely good credit levels.
Credit cards auto's doing extremely well.
So you're not going to see a lot more improvement in those areas.
I think of the reserve release as something that will -- it will continue but at a lower level.
That will continue to decline.
And John this is Andy.
Regarding the mortgage question the principal reason for that was the recent changes from the GSEs in terms of increasing their sampling size.
So I would not expect a significantly higher quarter-to-quarter loss rate but perhaps a longer or more extended period.
And that's why we have a higher reserve level.
And -- yes John let me just add because God knows I've got to speak if you guys speak.
It's only fair.
I want to remind you that as you saw our charge-offs hit a level of 1.09% we've said to all of you for a long time that over the cycle this is a probably 1% charge-off bank especially because of our credit card size.
We're hitting that 1%.
We're hitting close to it and I predict we'll go below it.
And my goal is to do our best to make sure that our reserves within accounting rules stay to a place where we don't have to rebuild them all back later on.
As an industry I'm arguing for that as well because I think we've learned a lesson and we don't want to do that.
But you have to appreciate that I think Bill and I both think that 1.09% goes to 1% and probably falls under that for a little while not as a goal necessarily but over the time and term of our long history we think that we'll be at 1% and we're getting very close to that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one just follow-up for Andy.
To the extent there's a nuance change in the GSE sampling behavior is that them looking at a wider range of indices Andy or putting -- trying to put back stuff that's been paying for longer? Any color on that? It's just John just going deeper in the loans that we're looking at and going back further.
So it's deeper and further in terms of the sampling size.
And there's going to be -- the more you look at the more you may find and that's why we increased the reserve.
Your next question comes from Ed Najarian with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Question sort of asked but maybe I'll ask in a slightly different way.
So you're 109 basis points on the charge-off ratio this quarter and have given that long-term guidance of 1%.
Richard you've said in prior calls you expected to dip below that 1% level.
That sort of looks likely now for next year.
Any thoughts as to how far you might dip below that level as you sort of continue to clean up credit and we see this big decline that we're seeing now again this quarter in the delinquency trends? I mean could we go down to 70 or 80 basis points at some point? Yes yes.
I mean Ed I don't know where we end up.
When I say under 1% I just want you all to know that it's probably going to be -- it's going to overperform for a little while there.
It could be 90 basis points could be high 80s.
I don't know.
It's not going to be 50 or anything like that.
We're still making loans.
We're still taking calculated risk and you want us to do that.
But we're also not -- what I'm also telegraphing to you is we're not going to start reaching into riskier categories.
We're not going to start underwriting more aggressively.
We're not worried about protecting our position as one of the larger market share growers in the credit.
We're doing it the way we're doing it and we're not going to change.
So I'm also telegraphing to you that we're not expecting it to get so pristine that you think we're missing opportunities.
But I do think this a high-quality book.
The stress test would have said so each time they do it.
And I think you guys should be comfortable that if we fall below 1% it's not a goal.
It happens to be an outcome.
But our goal is to manage this company right around 1% because that we think is the right level of risk and reward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondarily if I add back the repurchase provision on mortgage side I think I'm getting to a mortgage gain on sale sort of gross number of about 230 basis points on the production.
First of all is that about -- do you agree with that? And then second of all what are your thoughts on how long that can last or the pace that that might decline over what time frame? Or we all know that's a very wide number but I think we're all struggling with how quickly and over what time frame that declines.
Ed so the production gain is based on net applications net of a projected fall-out number so it's closer to 200 basis points in terms of the math.
And it is wider than I would expect it to continue in forward quarters but we are enjoying robust business in our Mortgage group as we talked about.
We're taking share and we're expanding our capabilities.
So I would expect it the second quarter to have another strong quarter in Mortgage and it's hard for me to see beyond that right now because there's just too much uncertainty out there.
Research Division</strong> But at least for the second quarter it looks like another quarter in terms of very wide gain on sales spread? Our pipelines continue to be strong.
There might be some slowdowns just given the -- about 75% of our first quarter activity was refinanced activity.
I would expect that to slow somewhat given that rates have stabilized but the pipeline continues to be strong.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But that's more of a comment on volume.
I'm just talking about the gain on sales spread.
Yes in the first few months of the quarter here I would expect it to continue strong.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions on loans.
Number one Commercial Real Estate is an area that's started to grow again a little bit for you guys and just wanted to understand how much of that is still moving over from the C&amp;D book versus opportunities that you're starting to see in the marketplace? How is CRE looking as far as maybe the next part of the loan book to pick up and where are you guys in terms of your aggressiveness in that market? This is Bill.
The -- it's not really moving over from the construction and development.
That continues to decline.
So the growth we've been picking up is more in stabilized properties.
And they're going to be Class A properties a lot of them with our institutional investors.
We have a pretty high-quality group of clientele that our Commercial Real Estate group has enjoyed many years of performance with and that's where we pick up the loan growth.
Yes in fact -- Ken it's Richard.
It's unremarkable in where it's coming from.
It's remarkable it's coming from everywhere.
And I think also the buildout of our Corporate Bank capabilities as you've been hearing about for the last couple of years make us more of a one-stop shop for some of these larger real estate national companies that have used us now for higher positions allowed us to be in the deals longer have used us for capital market capabilities.
So for us it's just like I said in the beginning it's everywhere.
It's a little bit of every category and I think it's the flight to quality that we continue to enjoy that I don't know how long that lasts.
But every time we get to talk to you it's still there and we'll enjoy it until it's not.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my second question just relates to just loan pricing.
Obviously yields came down a little bit in both C&amp;I and CRE.
I just want -- if you had some anecdotes to share in terms of how you see loan pricing across the markets and across the commercial products.
Yes this is Andy.
We've talked about the fact the last few quarters that loan spreads have stabilized.
And I would say that continues to be the case in the first quarter.
There are pockets of increased competition particularly in the commercial area and maybe a little bit below that.
But overall commercial wholesale loan spreads are stable.
Your next question comes from Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I had a quick follow-up question on the pushbacks.
You talked about increased sample size from the GSEs a change in policy.
Can you just add more color to that? I don't know how else to define it other than they're looking at more loans both from the perspective of the depth of the categories as well as the time frame.
So if they were looking at 10 loans before they're looking at 12 now for whatever period and that's it.
So we applied a similar expectation on that increased sample size.
It could be that the increased sample size will result in actually a lower loss expectation.
We just don't know until we get through the data.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the loan portfolio which has grown very nicely for you guys.
But one of the areas that has grown is residential and I think part of that's probably because or your market share increase in the Mortgage Banking space.
Is that mainly jumbo loans or is any of that 30-year conforming product? Yes.
There's definitely jumbos; that primarily come through our private client channels.
So we do book those jumbo loans that are not GSE qualified.
And then the other area of origination is out of our branches and we have -- it's a refi product only.
Average loan size is less than $100 000.
These are low loan-to-value first-mortgage refinance originations out of our branch.
So those are the 2 main categories.
And those are likely to have a life of 10 to 15 years.
Schedule of 10 to 15 versus 30 years.
Research Division</strong> And what type of yield? The spreads on those are probably 50 to 75 basis points above what you might expect from a GSE qualified.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question on HARP.
I know there's been a lot of media reports and we've been publishing a lot of stuff about how HARP is better than expectations.
And as April 1 I believe banks like you can start to pick at other servicing portfolios with somewhat limited reps and warrants.
I just wondered are you going to continue to try take market share and maybe go after some of these loans and other portfolios? Well we'll -- first of all I'll just comment that our HARP volume has been pretty strong.
We had about a 47% application increase quarter-over-quarter so we have seen a good HARP refi production.
Hard to say how aggressive we'll be on going after the other people's business.
I mean we've been very active in our own portfolio and we'll continue to be active on our own portfolio.
That's our first priority.
Your next question comes from Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on Ed's earlier question.
So what -- if you're 200 basis point mortgage gain on sale now what would be typical? And again why is it greater than average? And it's not just you.
It's the whole industry.
Typical Mike would be somewhere between 125 and 125 (sic) [150].
It's higher right now because there's so much demand in the marketplace and there's a fairly long -- healthy pipeline.
And the number of suppliers in the marketplace is down.
So it's just a function of supply and demand in the current market and that gives us some pricing opportunity.
Research Division</strong> And did you mean 125 to 150 is normal? Yes correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And who are you getting share from in your pursuit to be the top 5? Well we're already there actually.
I was just being generous.
We're taking it from the large -- some of the larger guys ahead of us.
There's a couple of large banks that are backing it down on that business and just not putting their energy into resources.
And then on the other side there are some smaller partners that are getting out of the business and looking like they're trading.
So it's exactly what you see Mike.
I don't have to name names but you know who's in it big and who's growing and you know who's either backing down or not very present.
And we're getting it from there.
Research Division</strong> And then switching to your Corporate Banking buildout which you've talked a lot about.
But when I look linked quarter period-end commercial loans without commercial leases are up 18% annualized.
And we can look at average and average is up 15% annualized.
However you want to slice that that's a big number.
And my question relates to how much of that growth is due to syndicated lending and how much of that growth is due to purchases of loans? Well we are -- I mean in the large corporate space you're going to be active in the syndicated market and that complements our corporate bond issuance area.
So that is a piece of it but we're also active in the middle market.
So our middle market group is included in those statistics.
We have a ABL unit that's enjoyed nice growth.
So it's really across the board.
And Mike we haven't done much to buy.
We're not big acquirers of somebody else's loans.
There've been a couple of deals we've looked at.
We pass on almost everything that you see in the public market.
And if there's a deal we'll cherry-pick a loan or 2.
It'll have to mostly be a customer we already know and just a position and a hold level we're willing to take but it's not a growth strategy for us to go acquire portfolios.
If they come along we'll look at everything but we are not as hungry for some of those deals as some others are.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly as you pointed out your profitability ratios are within your targeted range.
But are you leaving money on the table by not having a greater variety of capital market features to give your clients especially with your Corporate Banking buildout? O-M-G no.
And I say that because we like -- we only do what we understand and that we can control.
And as trite as it sounds I really like the consistent predictable repeatable business we've given you all.
I thought you were going to ask if we're going to stop at 16 and 1.6 and that would be no way either.
Are you kidding? But we love what we are because I think you can count on it and you can -- it's an annuity.
And you can watch it grow and you can watch it adjust if you don't see any big surprises.
And adding to some of those additional opportunities are not hurting us at all because we've got all the ones we wanted to in the last few years by building out our Wholesale Bank and capital markets nothing left we covet.
There's nothing we don't have that we want and there's nothing we have now that we don't want to keep.
So what you see is what you're going to get for quite a while.
Your next question comes from Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
LLC Research Division</strong> Richard a question for you.
We still are yet to find out about the G-SIFI.
We kind of know what it is but not really.
Volcker is yet to come.
Are there any other major regulatory pieces outside whatever the CFPB may do that we're waiting for? Nancy this is Andy.
Only one I -- that I know we're all watching is the final LCR ratio.
There's a definition out there today.
I know there's some discussion occurring with Basel and the Fed in terms of potential adjustments to that.
We've built a lot of liquidity on balance sheet.
And whatever those final ratios are will guide us to whatever we finalize from the securities portfolio but that would be the only other one I could think of.
Yes.
Nancy I was about to say "No I don't think so." And then I'm getting the eye cross from Andy like we have one thing.
But let me say what I would characterize.
Between Volcker Dodd-Frank CFPB as it relates to the financial impacts to our company and to shareholders substantially most of that has already been seen by those other activities of Reg E and Durbin and CARD Act and things like that.
Now it'll change the course of how we run the company because we'll have to maybe dot our i's and cross our t's twice.
We'll have to confirm certain behaviors.
We built our capital markets business knowing that the Volcker Rules were going to change.
Dodd-Frank at just probably 65% of Dodd-Frank will touch our company and the big majority of it's going to be more paperwork transactions and managing the details but not the financials.
And CFPB I remain optimistic that it hasn't done anything I haven't seen yet to argue with and we'll watch and see to see how they perform.
But I think if their original true goal of being transparent clear and helping customers understand what they bought we're going to be in great shape there.
If they get into things like price fixing and things like that then we'll deal with that when we face it.
And it'll affect everybody and as usual probably affect us a lot.
But for now I think we're as a management team keeping our eye on so many things but not sitting here worrying about the peril that it will create for the investment that you guys have in our company.
And if it's a deal we'll manage it like we have before and we'll find an offset.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you think the regulatory regime as we see it right now is pretty much what we get going forward? Well I think the details are -- yes I've got the canvas.
I've seen the paint on the side but no one's has painted it yet.
But I mean I don't think there's a hidden trap door that -- of any significance that we can't at least predict or work within as the next couple of years go forward.
But as you know I mean Dodd-Frank's only 25% 33% done.
Volcker's got a lot of TBDs and CFPB is new.
So I'm not saying it's at all known or done but I'm telling you what I think.
Its worst-case scenarios are something we can manage.
LLC Research Division</strong> And Richard would you care to make an intrepid prediction about when you might get the ability to make or to decide capital actions without going through the CCAR et cetera et cetera? I mean are we at a point now over the next several years where capital actions are done once a year based upon the results of the CCAR or is that going to change? Yes Nancy I really don't have any facts around it to offer.
But I would say we're going to learn a couple things this year because we know there are a couple of our peers that are seeking midyear capital actions based on what they didn't get in the CCAR.
And I think that will inform all of us because we have no evidence that it will be anything less than an annual activity.
And then I also am betting that it will take a few more years few meaning more than 1 or 2 for the global regulators to believe that banks can manage themselves without oversight.
But I think the stress test is an annual event that makes sense.
And as long as the rules are understood and we know how to participate in predicting our own outcome and make our own decisions that are hopefully approved I don't think it becomes a burden all but one that we all just have an extra step than we had before.
But I think in terms of annual nature I think we're about to learn that this year some of our folks have -- for a midyear correction.
Your next question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the commitments.
You called out the 5% q-on-q growth in CRE and C&amp;I.
I'm just wondering you've been having nice commitment growth for a while now.
How long does the commitments take to translate into outstandings? Well currently forever.
I mean really our commitment levels just to give you an idea when I give you 25% this is for the large corporate and middle market clients.
So it's not credit card.
It's not consumer.
It's not even small business.
Back in 2009 that was 37% right.
So 37% of $65 million was used as a line of credit.
Last quarter we have 25% of $90 billion.
So while the growth -- the actual loans outstanding are virtually flat the increase in the outstandings open to buy is remarkable.
So I got to tell you in a recession it really is.
I have no idea how long it will take.
But what I know is when it happens it'll be amazingly quick.
And you guys can watch us like a Doppler radar.
The first thing that happens when companies start getting ready to move is the cash balances get used.
And then the line of credit gets used and then new loans are made.
And so we are still at record levels of deposit held based on companies being strong enough right now and kind of husbanding cash until they know what to do with it.
And that's the first I think canary in the mine that says no one's actually taking any big steps at this point in time.
But they are getting those lines of credit Betsy.
And they're planning to use them I suspect because they're paying for them and it gives them a lot of alternatives.
And I think the country's business community is much stronger than people think it is because they are cash rich.
They are line of credit capable and they're ready to jump when something comes along.
We just need that trigger event and I don't see it on the near term but surely it will happen because of the cycle.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I see the macro numbers in your release.
I just wondered if you in tracking individual companies that you're extending commitments to is that translating into loan growth at all over the last year or so? And I guess your answer is not yet.
Yes.
Not yet.
And it's a great question because if I -- I would tell you if that 25% was a few companies that are 100% and the rest at 0 that would be information.
But it's not.
It's the average company has a line of credit and uses a part of it and then the rest they leave open to buy.
And so for us this represents a behavior a consistency but an absolute growth opportunity.
Your next question comes from Greg Ketron from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One the of course commercial loan growth has continued at a very impressive pace and maybe some color -- it looks like you would be getting market share and maybe some color on the strategies that you're undertaking to approach the wholesale or commercial lending business.
Sure.
This is Richard.
Warning here comes something else that sounds not that exciting.
We work on advocacy.
And we've been training all of our lenders many of whom have been doing this for 30 years on a special training program we created here in our company on customer advocacy.
And that is Greg code word for building deeper relationships and having the entire company available informationally to a customer when we meet with them.
So we're not -- we don't have the relationship manager now calling on a line of credit talking about line of credit praying for a line of credit and coming back home.
This relationship manager is working with an entire team doing pre-call activities bringing the right people out to the client selling the entire company if not now later and getting a lot of market from other places.
So the relationship depth we have is intensely higher than it was before.
And to answer a question about 45 minutes ago amazingly still an infant in its growth opportunity.
So what we're doing now is just getting started on a new way of taking market share.
Our guys figured out that flight to quality is a real deal.
It translates to new business.
So telling the story better helps us do a better job.
And so it's really training and making the entire company available through every relationship manager.
See I told you it wasn't going to sound exciting.
But I'll tell you what it's a big deal and it's a big change from where we were a few years ago.
Research Division</strong> This has legs that could run for beyond next couple of quarters if it's...
That's right.
This has years of legs because it's got nothing but upside.
And again if you like what you see now just imagine what we can do when we really get good at it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Andy a question for you on the margin.
On the liability side what remaining opportunities do you have such as may be debt restructuring or elimination that may help support the margin through the rest of this year? We have some TGLP paper coming off here in the May-June time frame.
And then in total if you think about the second half of the year another $7 billion to $9 billion of higher-cost debt rolling off some of which will be replaced some of which will be sort of re-substituted with deposit growth that we're enjoying.
So that benefit will start to show in the margin in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you'll see your cost come out of debt that will be replaced with lower-cost funding sources? Correct.
Our final question comes from Chris Gamaitoni with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had 2 questions one around deposits.
Noninterest-bearing deposits looked like they decline about 5% quarter-over-quarter and that looks to be mostly in the community bank small community bank segment.
Can you just give a little color on that? Is that people becoming more comfortable and willing to spend and thinking about their current position? I would attribute more of it to seasonality typical seasonality related to tax activity and just first quarter spend.
So I don't think there's so much of a decline or utilization as much as the seasonal impacts.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the deposit service accounts charges they were down 10% 10.5% quarter-over-quarter.
It was attributed to seasonality.
I haven't seen the same trends across other banks.
Is there a geography issue or a business change that's impacting that? There is no geography issue.
There are fewer days business days in the first quarter than the fourth quarter and that's the principal reason for the decline and the key driver of that number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to clarify a statement.
You talked about a significant increase in HARP volume.
Was that HARP 1.0 or was that HARP 2.0? We implemented 2.0 in the first quarter so it'll be some of both.
I will now turn the conference back to Mr.
Davis for closing remarks.
Well obviously thank you guys for your continued support.
The questions were great and they helped us clarify what's on your mind.
I'd also ask you to remain optimistic about this economy.
I mean it's starting to show some real signs of permanent but slow recovery.
And we're going to be watching every step of it and being engaged in part of it.
And hopefully the banks in America will get a little more credit for the kind of good work we're going do to help get America back on its feet.
So spread the good word.
That's what I would say and thanks for your interest in our company.
Yes.
Thank you all for listening.
And as always if you have questions please free to call me or Sean O'Connor.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to U.S.
Bancorp's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon Eastern Time through Wednesday July 25 at midnight.
I will now turn the conference call over to Judy Murphy Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Holly and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorp's second quarter 2012 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analysts' schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thanks Judy and good morning everyone.
We're very pleased to share our record quarterly results with you this morning and I'll begin with the highlights on Page 3 of our presentation.
U.S.
Bancorp reported record net income of $1.4 billion for the second quarter of 2012 or $0.71 per diluted common share.
Total net revenue was higher by 8.1% over the same quarter of 2011 driven by 6.6% growth in net interest income and 9.7% growth in fee revenue.
As importantly we achieved positive operating leverage on both a year-over-year and linked quarter basis.
The total average loans grew year-over-year and linked quarter by 7.7% and 1.9% respectively and we experienced strong loan growth in total average deposits -- strong growth in total average deposits of 10.5% over the prior year and 1.3% linked quarter.
Credit quality continued to improve as net charge-offs declined by 8.9% from the prior quarter and non-performing assets decreased in total by 6.9% or 12.3% including covered assets.
We generated significant capital this quarter through earnings and ended the quarter with a Basel I Tier 1 common equity ratio of 8.8% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.7%.
We repurchased 13 million shares of common stock during the second quarter bringing our year-to-date share buyback total to 29 million shares.
Since the beginning of the year we have returned 62% of our earnings to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Trends in our industry-leading performance metrics are shown on Slide 4.
Return on average assets in the second quarter was 1.67% and return on average common equity was 16.5%.
Our company's long-term goal is to achieve a normalized ROA in the range of 1.6% to 1.9% and an ROE between 16% and 19%.
Both performance ratios are within their respective ranges.
Our net interest margin and efficiency ratio are shown in the graph on the right side of Slide 4.
This quarter's net interest margin of 3.58% was 9 basis points lower than the same quarter of last year and as expected a few basis points lower than the prior quarter.
And Andy will discuss the margin in more detail in a few minutes.
Our efficiency ratio for the second quarter was 51.1% lower than both the prior year and previous quarter and we expect this ratio will remain in the low 50s.
Turning to Slide 5.
The company reported total net revenue in the second quarter of $5.1 billion an increase of 8.1% over the prior year's quarter and 2.8% higher than the previous quarter.
The company's net revenue benefited from growth in both our balance sheet and fee-based business lines.
And mortgage banking and payments were particularly strong this quarter.
Our growth in average loan and deposit balances is shown on Slide 6.
Average total loans outstanding increased by $15.3 billion or 7.7% year-over-year.
As expected linked quarter growth in an average total loans accelerated slightly from the previous quarter as balances grew 1.9% compared with the first quarter's linked quarter growth of 1.5%.
Excluding covered loans our runoff portfolio average total loans grew by 10% year-over-year and 2.4% linked quarter.
The increase in average loans outstanding was primarily due once again to strong growth in commercial loans which grew by 23.2% year-over-year and 6% over the prior quarter.
Residential real estate loans also showed strong growth 19.6% over the same quarter of last year and 3.5% over the prior quarter.
Consumer lending was more muted with the exception of auto loans and leases which have been showing solid growth for a number of quarters.
We continue to originate and renew new loans and lines for our customers.
New originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments total over $45.5 billion this quarter.
Total revolving corporate and commercial commitments outstanding increased year-over-year by 24.3% and 3.7% on a linked quarter basis while utilization remains fairly consistent at approximately 25%.
This increase in commitments coupled with the quarter's strong commercial loan growth indicates that we're continuing to gain market share.
Total average deposits increased by $21.9 billion or 10.5% over the same quarter of last year while total average deposits grew by $3 billion on a linked quarter basis or 1.3%.
Turning to Slide 7 in credit quality.
Total net charge-offs in the second quarter declined by 8.9% from the first quarter of 2012 while non-performing assets decreased by 6.9% or 12.3% including covered assets.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 0.98% improving from the 1.09% recorded in the first quarter and now below the 1% through this cycle net charge-off rate that we expect given the current mix of our loan portfolio.
Turning to Slide 8.
As the graph on the left illustrates early- and late-stage delinquencies excluding covered assets improved again this quarter.
On the right-hand side of Slide 8 you will see that the positive trend in criticized assets also continued.
Both of these statistics provide us with confidence that net charge-offs and non-performing assets will once again trend modestly lower in the third quarter of 2012.
Given the second quarter's improvement in credit quality and our expectation that this improvement will continue going forward we released $50 million of reserves compared with $90 million in the first quarter and $175 million in the second quarter of last year.
I will now turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Richard.
Slide 9 gives you a view of our second quarter 2012 results compared to various comparable time periods.
Record diluted EPS of $0.71 was 18.3% higher than the second quarter of 2011 and 6% higher than the prior quarter.
Slide 10 lists the key drivers of the company's second quarter earnings.
The $212 million or 17.6% increase in net income year-over-year was the result of an 8.1% increase in net revenue and a decrease in the provision for credit losses partially offset by a 7.3% increase in noninterest expense.
Net interest income increased year-over-year by $169 million or 6.6%.
The increase was largely driven by a $26.2 billion or 9.4% increase in average earning assets in addition to strong growth in low-cost deposits.
The growth in average earning assets included planned increases in the securities portfolio and growth in average total loans as well as loans held for sale partially offset by a lower cash position at the Fed.
A net interest margin of 3.58% was 9 basis points lower than the same quarter of last year primarily due to the expected increase in lower-yielding investment securities and a decrease in loan yields partially offset by lower cash balances at the Fed and lower deposit costs.
Noninterest income increased by 9.7% year-over-year.
Mortgage banking revenues was very strong again this quarter as production increased by 150% year-over-year and gain on sale margins improved.
These positive variances in mortgage banking and several other major categories were partially offset by a 17.8% decrease in credit and debit card fees due to legislative changes to debit card interchange.
Offsetting the impact of this unfavorable change in debit card fees was legislative-related mitigation activity including the final elimination of the unused rewards and higher overall transaction volumes.
Noninterest expense was higher year-over-year by $176 million or 7.3%.
The majority of the increase can be attributed to higher compensation and benefits expense an increase in professional services primarily due to foreclosure review and other expense which included an accrual related to the Visa settlement.
This accrual accounts for the temporary reduction interchange included in the settlement terms.
Net income was higher on a linked quarter basis by $77 million or 5.8%.
This favorable variance was the result of a 2.8% increase in net revenue and a 2.3% decrease in the provision for credit losses partially offset by a 1.6% increase in noninterest expense.
On a linked quarter basis net interest income was higher by $23 million or just under 1%.
Average earning assets grew by $3.7 billion and net interest margin was as expected 2 basis points lower than the prior quarter as the negative impact from the repricing of the investment securities portfolio and slightly lower loan yields were offset by a reduction in cash balances at the Fed and the positive impact from repricing of maturing debt.
The average balance on our investment securities portfolio was $73.2 billion in the second quarter $10.2 billion higher than the second quarter of 2011 and $1.7 billion higher than the previous quarter.
During the second quarter we transferred approximately $12 billion of securities from available-for-sale to held-to-maturity reflecting our intention to keep these securities until maturity and subsequently reducing the volatility of OCI going forward.
Assuming stable cash balances and the current Basel III liquidity requirements we expect to maintain the investment securities portfolio at or around this level for the next few quarters.
Also given the net interest rate environment we expect net interest margin to be fairly stable in the second half of 2012 as repricing pressure on the securities portfolio is offset by the benefit of a reduction in funding cost as higher-cost debt matures and is replaced by lower-price debt and/or deposits.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest income was higher by $116 million or 5.2%.
This favorable variance was primarily the result of strong growth in payments and mortgage banking as well as increases in the majority of other fee categories.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest expense was higher by $41 million or 1.6% primarily due to the Visa settlement accrual and mortgage servicing review project partially offset by lower marketing business development expense.
Turning to Slide 11.
Our capital position remains strong and continues to grow.
We have included estimates of our Tier 1 common equity-to-risk-weighted asset ratio using the Basel III proposed rules published both before and after June 7.
Based on our preliminary assessment of the full impact of the proposed rules for the Basel III standardized approach released for comments in June we have estimated that our Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was approximately 7.9% at June 30 versus the 8.4% estimated at March 31 under the prior proposal.
The reduction in our estimated ratio was primarily the result of an increase in risk-weighted assets under the newly proposed rules of approximately 7%.
At 7.9% we are both well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement but slightly below our targeted ratio of approximately 8% which includes a cushion for a yet-to-be-defined SIFI buffer and our own internal buffer.
We expect to reach our target ratio during the third quarter.
Slide 12 provides updated detail on the company's mortgage repurchase related expense and the reserve for expected losses on repurchases and make-whole payments.
Our outstanding repurchases and make-whole request balance at June 30 was $164 million compared with $134 million at March 31.
As you may recall we increased our mortgage reps and warranty reserve in the first quarter of 2012 in response to changes we had seen in the GSE sampling method.
During the second quarter of 2012 we accrued $45 million and believe the level of reserves at June 30 is appropriate.
We continue to expect mortgage repurchase requests to remain fairly stable over the next several quarters.
I will now turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Andy.
So to conclude our formal remarks let me turn your attention to Slide 13.
The momentum continues this quarter and hopefully beyond.
We grew our balance sheet and customer base and we gained market share.
We grew net revenue we achieved record earnings and industry-leading performance metrics for the quarter as well as positive operating leverage.
We continue to invest in our businesses and we saw our credit quality continue to improve.
Our capital and liquidity positions remain strong and they're growing.
And we've returned 62% of our earnings year-to-date to our shareholders through dividends and buybacks.
Our company continues to invest for the long term in our diverse and stable mix of businesses products and services and in our employees and in the communities that we serve.
Consistent predictable and repeatable.
Our straightforward approach to doing business has allowed to deliver industry-leading performance and returns to our shareholders and we look forward to doing more of the same during the rest of 2012 and the years to come.
That concludes our formal remarks Andy Bill Parker and I will be happy to answer questions from the audience.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Erika Penala Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My first question is for Andy.
Could you walk us through in terms of the components margin stability for the back half of the year? And I guess my more detailed question underneath that is could you give us a sense of how much debt is maturing in the second half and at what rate and what replacement rate you're assuming as well as I notice on an end-of-period basis the cash balances were actually up what size bond portfolio you're assuming for the rest of the year? Okay Erika.
So the key moving parts are the negative is the investment securities reinvestment risk and the offset to that is the debt repricing which will be at a lower cost replaced by either additional debt issuance and/or deposits.
The differential of those 2 things is essentially causing us to be -- to have an expectation of neutrality in net interest margin for the rest of the year.
In terms of the cash balance Erika any day there's fluctuations in that cash balances.
And I'd like to look at it more at the average for the quarter which was down from about $4 billion in the first quarter to about $1.5 billion in the second quarter.
And again the level of loan growth and deposit growth is fairly stable as you saw in the second quarter.
So I would expect a little movement around that but not substantial.
Research Division</strong> You don't happen to have the dollar number of the debt maturing and the rate at which it's maturing for the second half of the year do you? I do have that.
In the second quarter -- in the third quarter we have about $6 billion maturing and I would say the debt that's coming off versus what's coming on is favorable right around 100 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And my last question before I step away from the queue relates to CCAR.
I guess perhaps it's too early to tell but now that the NPR proposal is out do you anticipate that the CCAR is going to take into account Basel III ratios rather than Basel I when thinking about approving capital return for the banks next year? Well as you know Erika the last CCAR actually took into consideration both Basel I and Basel III.
It was Basel III under the stressed environment and -- Basel I under the stressed environment and Basel III under sort of the glide path.
And I would expect a similar sort of set-up constraints in the new one next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Arfstrom RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question for maybe Richard or Bill on Slide 7 the credit trends.
Richard you've talked about this concept of the industry over-earning in the past.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just curious if you'd be willing to take a stab at going below 1%.
How long does this phenomenon last and how low can the charge-offs potentially go for the company? Just kind of big picture would be helpful.
Yes.
I'll start and Bill can clean up.
The 0.98% is about where I thought we'd be right about now because in the last few years we and the others have not been taking much risk on lending which is probably at end of the day what we are supposed to do but have to be very careful.
I think that we stay below 100 basis points for a few quarters just because the math of it says that we don't have any loans that would be coming to some point of stress I dont believe in the next couple of quarters based on our prudent underwriting of the last year or so.
I will say you'll remember that we have a credit card fairly important credit card book that does affect our overall ratios and that's probably the one that's coming now to its most nearest bottom where it'll start to move up probably sooner than the rest of the portfolios.
But for the rest of it I think we're going to stay under 1 for a while.
My hope is that based on appropriate accounting trends that we can continue to have a certain level of unallocated reserves remaining so that we don't find ourselves releasing reserves to a point of unsustainable performance only to have to build them back as things start to move up.
I'll also close by saying I don't think the 0.98% falls to anything like 0.5 or 0.6.
I think it floats around the high 8s and high midpoint 9s but it probably eventually gets above 1.
And I'll actually be looking forward to that because that means we've been optimal in doing the right risk/reward balance and making sure that we're taking the right risks and rewards for our customers.
But I would say it's another few quarters and not very aggressive in its movement from here.
Bill do you want to add? Yes I'll just say John that how long it stays below 1 and how low it goes is in a large part a function of how strong the economy is.
If it stays at this very moderate growth level that's positive.
But we wouldn't necessarily see that loss rate go way down given the continued high unemployment rate.
But if we do enter into a very robust economic growth and see unemployment go way down see loan growth go way up then clearly we could get a much lower rate.
But a large part of it remains a function of the economy.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on that obviously the pipelines are strong.
But are you sensing any incremental borrower caution or any potential changes in activity between now and the end of the year? Yes a little bit.
This is Richard.
I like to characterize things in quarters.
So I think quarter 4 was a pretty strong ending as it related to our customers' sense of things.
Quarter 1 remains strong for a quarter at the beginning of the year.
And then quarter 2 I'd say the last month that quarter 2 started to taper off a bit in terms of appetite for risk.
No surprise but as you think about it we're getting close to a number of moments.
We're coming close to the election.
We're coming closer to the fiscal cliff decision.
We're certainly not getting better news from Europe as it relates to the confidence of our customers.
And then the economy isn't strengthening.
It's not falling apart either.
It's just not getting better.
So I would say that we saw slight tempering in the end of quarter 2 and I think we'll continue to see that between now and the solution that is in the opting [ph] for any of those outcomes particularly the election the fiscal cliff which at least have deadlines on them as we all know.
For us as it relates to our loan growth we're 1.5% linked quarter in quarter 1 1.9% for quarter 2.
Our current forecast shows us pretty steady to that level where we've been right now.
So I dont think we're going to see a ramp up but we're certainly not seeing things go backwards.
But our customers' behavior both on their continued decision to take on commitments that they are not using and their caution in not extending themselves in places that they're not comfortable continues to remain.
And that story is kind of just more of the same with a slightly negative bias to their confidence.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Siefers Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of questions.
First just generally on mortgage.
Another pretty strong quarter and you guys obviously have beefed up in that business pretty considerably over last couple of years or few years.
So just curious anecdotally your thoughts on how long it can stay strong given the rate environment and any additional opportunities you might see there.
Yes.
This is Rich.
I'll go first.
We know that this is an unsustainable moment in time because refis are so robust.
They're about 2/3 of our originations right now.
And with interest rates this low they're not going to stay there forever.
So we're going to continue to enjoy the benefits that accrue to a high-quality producer like we are with a good brand and we're not going to withhold any opportunities that come along.
But we're not building this church for Easter.
There are number of things we're doing to make sure that we have the right people and the right processes in place.
But we're also building with a certain level of temporariness as things will eventually start to flatten out.
I think our market share will continue to grow as it has as much for our own efforts as it has been the changing in the marketplace.
And I think in the future say 3 years forward when there is a more normalized environment we should have very significant market share of a more traditional new home market business for which we will build an infrastructure that can withstand that and grow with it but not put ourselves over our skis at moments like this where it's probably not sustainable.
I'll have Andy talk a little more about the margins we're getting right now.
And you're right the pipeline is strong in quarter 3.
It looks a lot like quarter 2.
Right.
So you know as Richard mentioned about 70% of our activity in the first quarter was refinancing and that dropped to low 60s in the second quarter.
Gain-on-sale margins fell a bit from about 2.30% to about 2.18% from quarter 1 and quarter 2.
So our expectation for quarter 3 is a similar volume perhaps a little bit of further pressure on gain-on-sale margins.
And then again fourth quarter is going to depend a little bit about where rates are at that time.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It's helpful.
I appreciate that.
And I just wanted to ask another question.
You guys are in the journal I guess it was yesterday or today on that Los Angeles lawsuit.
And you've talked about sort of the market confusion regarding being a trustee versus actually owning some places when these lawsuits come up.
I was just curious if you had any thoughts on that most recent one? Yes.
I do.
Besides the fact that I hate it is the -- we don't own any of those properties.
And it's a classic case of misinformation and the confusions created by the role of the trustee.
The trust owns these RMBS.
But in turn they're owned by the investors and we have a limited duty as a trustee.
And in fact we don't have any rights to go in and touch the properties.
And while that doesn't pass the test in the public jury it is accurate and it's the way the trustees were built.
We have in this particular case since they had their bully pulpit yesterday for wholly incorrect information.
I guess I have mine now to say that none of the information that they have provided was accurate.
We've been working with them for 18 months to try to understand what they really wanted and we're even willing above the duties of our responsibility to connect with the servicers and help try to figure out where these properties are falling into disrepair and to no avail.
For the record we have 46 of those properties in LA County for which they were actually -- we can get our hands on and U.S.
Bank owns only 18 properties outright in the LA County that are foreclosed and every single one of them with pictures to evidence are in good shape and in great repair.
So we will continue to manage this through the courts and do our good duty of making sure that people understand the role of the trustee.
But I think at this point it's disappointing but it's not altogether surprising because if it's not here it's sometimes in bankruptcies or other places where the bank gets tagged as the owner or the creator of the problem and we just have to go back through the right courses to explain our position.
And usually we dont have to do that after a press conference but we will have to do that this time.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Richard I was wondering if you give us a little more color on other parts of the loan book.
I noticed that commercial mortgage grew a little faster this quarter.
If you can walk us through that.
And also your appetite for continuing to build the residential mortgage portfolio.
I know it's a relatively still small percentage but just from an asset liability perspective if you can give us some color on that.
Yes a little color on all of it.
So our loan growth in the C&amp;I market business was actually strong and I'm happy to report across the board 6% linked quarter and it was all the way from small business including SBA up to middle-market and all the way up to large corporate.
In terms of markets we said last time and we'll say it again we're not seeing a real distinction across geographies except in commercial real estate where the coasts are stronger for reasons that make sense I think than some of the markets in the Midwest.
Our investment in all these businesses can continue to be attractive to me because it's an opportunity for us to slightly and quietly move market share get opportunities with business with other customers we haven't had before it.
Namely on the more corporate side I would say our growth is first and foremost our own new marketing efforts and being more -- invited to more opportunities including syndicated deals and now the chance with Capital Markets to lead many of those deals.
Second in order would be our own customers giving us more of their business and third and probably the diminishing level from prior quarters would be the benefit of the European banks starting to retreat.
In the other parts of the market it's just old-fashioned market share and customers giving us more business.
And in Commercial Real Estate it happens to be a business we're very good at.
We have as you know from stress test results to prior quarters review we have a very good book and an amazingly strong team.
So that probably is a place where without a European benefit so much we've been getting invited to a lot more opportunities because I think we said no to a lot of people in the last cycle and as much as they might have hated it then they're back saying "Look you said no when it was easier to say yes and the fact is I suspect you're going to take care of me all the time because your best interest must be mine so let's sit down and talk." And I'm going to continue to see growth in Commercial Real Estate which is what I think you're seeing a bit latent.
CRE is always late last in and last out and I think we're getting the benefit that we saw with C&amp;I a couple of quarters later.
So Bill I'll stop there and turn it to you in terms of more color around the loan book.
Yes.
In terms of the mortgage obviously there's not a lot of construction activity other than multifamily.
We do have a fairly robust multifamily construction pipeline.
But on the mortgage side we have a lot of large institutional customers a lot of REITs.
There's been a lot of repositioning of Class A properties and we're more than willing and able to provide financing to those institutional clients for that mortgage category.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
My second question just to put it to the deposit side for a second.
Continued good growth and I'm just wondering is it from new customer adds? Are you seeing any flight-to-quality benefit? And also just a little color on this broker/dealer list that you saw on the large time deposit category? Yes.
It's across all those categories.
We're seeing good growth in our retail customer base across the branches and savings account principally.
The DDA growth is principally driven by wholesale as well as our Corporate Trust business which is a great source of DDA deposits.
And we have a very robust broker/dealer group that will have fluctuations up and down.
But from a core basis in terms of long-standing deposits those are growing across the board.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And last little nitpicky one just the professional services was up on some mortgage-related stuff that's been elevated in the past.
Can you just explain that and then talk about like is this going to be just a continued kind of elevated type of expense that we're going to have to deal with just until all of the stuff is settled out? Yes Ken.
So that is principally due to the mortgage consent order review that many banks are facing.
It's a third-party review that's going on.
It cost us just over $50 million in the second quarter.
We would expect a similar level in the third quarter and then start to fall off in quarter 4 and going into 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Ketron UBS.
Research Division</strong> Richard maybe a question for you on the Visa MasterCard litigation and maybe your view on that.
It looked like you have accrued some charges for the quarter.
But maybe how the settlement plays out for U.S.
Bancorp especially given the fact there could have been a larger negative overhang as the year progressed.
And now it looks like for the most part it has been resolved.
Yes.
So I'll talk about a settlement that seemingly nobody likes.
After 7 years you would have thought we got that right.
As you know we are not a party to that directly but we are influenced by the outcome.
And in fact even if we were a party we would have been allowing Visa and MasterCard to do our bidding.
In this case I think the settlement itself was acceptable because first and foremost we have like other banks have a great deal of money reserved for this particular lawsuit for many years especially once they both became public companies.
And that money for the most part was used for this and that's what we wanted it to be used for.
The overhang of 10 basis points for 8 months as you can see we accrued for that so that's now behind us.
I do worry that it might pierce the veil in terms of what merchants will want to do on month 9.
So I think we need to keep our eyes open and make sure that that satisfies the Court's requirement.
And we will also have 8 months to see whether that money actually does get passed along to consumers or to retailers or where it goes.
And then probably the trump card Greg biggest issue is the surcharging and the permission now that's granted.
As you know AMEX doesn't have that opportunities.
So it will be interesting to watch between those issuers between MasterCard and Visa versus AMEX how that plays out.
And I do think it's very interesting and provocative to see what kind of actions the retailers will take because typically surcharging is a negative feeling and impact to consumers and I would suspect that most of them probably won't jump on it.
Lastly and you know what I've read but there -- it's not final.
They still have an opt-out opportunity so it'll be interesting if all the large merchants and some of the chains of say the fast food chains or the convenience store chains all accept this or not because it may in part be just a starting point to the continuing saga that's now 7 years old.
So I dont expect it to be conclusive.
I think we have a lot to watch.
I actually appreciate the extra time we'll have even over the holidays to see how this all plays out.
And it's not going to be hugely material to U.S.
Bank.
We're also an acquirer so at the end of the day there is some counter hedging benefits to whatever the solution is.
But I think it's a very instructive to watch.
And it's very different than Durbin.
It had nothing to do with congressional oversight.
It had nothing to do with customers weighing in on it.
This is a retailer versus card business and I think it's got probably halfway through the game.
We'll see how it goes in the next couple of months.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I appreciate your insight.
And Andy on margin when you look at the average cost of interest-bearing deposits it was down about 43 basis points for the second quarter.
Do you think there's appreciably more room to down price as we work our way through the rest of this year and into 2013? Yes Greg there's some room.
You think about that average that includes some deposits that are very low.
Some are between 3 and 5 basis points and then some are well above the 40 basis points.
And the opportunity would be for those set of deposits that are above 40 and we still have some room there.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a question -- 2 questions about this overall economic activity.
If you're looking at -- just curious on Page 6.
If you look at the deposit growth and you kind of work from third quarter to second quarter we're seeing deposit growth go from 18% down to 10.5%.
On the other side you got loan growth growing up from 5% to almost 8%.
So the gap between those while we're not seeing a big shift in dollars the growth rate gap is closing.
That's gone from about 13% down to about 3%.
And I just know given the kind of position you all have in the marketplace and the growth that you're seeing on the revenue side do you think that this is related to kind of some underlying tones to the economic activities? As we talked about Marty your observation is correct.
The differential between loan growth and deposit growth is condensing so that they're almost at the same level now.
So we are at the 1.09% and the 1.3% on a linked quarter and in fact flipping to loan growth being a little higher.
So there was a period last year where there was very limited loan activity and tremendous deposit activity as particular corporations were building liquidity on their balance sheet and effectively on our balance sheet.
That seems to have slowed and sort of leveled out.
So there's more of a balance right now and that is sort of what we're anticipating going into the third quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so it's not really the quick shift that we've seen in the past but maybe there's a slow boil that's kind of going on underneath? Yes.
It isn't a massive change all in one quarter but it is over many quarters shifting a little bit.
That's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Would you also say given your transaction processing business what are you seeing in the activity levels there? Is it encouraging at all? Or is -- we had a nice uptick this quarter from seasonality but how was that relative to your expectation? I'd say that in terms of same-store sales Marty we have both a good view of the whole domestic market and even a little peek into Europe given our position over there.
But year-over-year sales for our Elavon business was up 2.2% and primarily led by government financials and apparel.
Without the airlines which is a huge portfolio for us it's up almost 3%.
On the negative side furnishings consumer purchases and entertainment were on the downside are negative.
So what you're seeing is I think the reduction of a long torturously long recession with a slow recovery where people are spending on what they have to spend on but they're probably still lagging on spending on the more discretionary benefit.
And for us the 2.2% year-over-year growth is pretty much what we thought it would be and expecting it to probably be settling into the summer months somewhere in that same range not getting much better not getting much weaker.
And consumers are less affected by those issues I mentioned earlier like the election and the fiscal cliff.
But as we get closer to those points in time for better or for worse they'll start to become more engaged in that dialogue and their actions and behaviors may be affected by it.
But for now we think it's pretty steady state.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just last question detail you mentioned Visa accrual in a couple of places.
In the press release you say that noninterest expense was up $41 million primarily due to Visa.
Can you -- what was the actual number for the Visa accrual this quarter? $65 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Hagerman Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Richard I have a couple of questions just in terms of the loan growth.
One in terms of the Commercial Real Estate and you specifically referenced the multifamily opportunity pipeline.
But I'm curious obviously you have more room to grow that portfolio relative to the overall size.
And I'm just curious as you think about your risk balance if you will how do I think about just kind of that risk balance and the ongoing growth in Commercial Real Estate multifamily in particular how much -- where are you in terms of pricing and kind of thoughts in terms of where you want that portfolio to go all else being equal? First of all let me remind you that historically gosh you can go back probably a decade we've always had a fairly large Commercial Real Estate book.
So in any point in time I'm not worried about the size of that as it compares to the size of our total assets.
So we're comfortable with that because we're good at it.
I have the same management team for 19 years running that business and so I would take more opportunity like you said.
But let me jump on one thing -- multifamily.
We're not always a bellwether but we had a strong opinion 2 quarters ago first part of the year.
We felt new construction strong as it is is risky in overheated markets.
And we've been actually walking away from deals in certain markets where we think that the total housing stock is going to be too high once you put the foreclosed properties back into the marketplace and you have what has yet to be built multifamily.
So you might be disappointed or impressed I dont know which but we're not engaging in some of those opportunities in overheated markets particularly like Boston and Chicago but we just think it's just too risky.
So we're passing on opportunities not because the credit quality doesn't look good today.
We just think that the future as we see it isn't going to be strong enough to account for it.
You've got other categories though.
New housing sales we're at historic lows and we'll continue to be light and we're going to continue to participate with the only high-quality national builders.
Office buildings new constructions continue to be limited.
Vacancy rates in the big cities are about 15% ranging from 7% to 20%.
And major suburban markets were even worse more like 15% to 20% so there's not a lot there but to work with your current customers refi them or take higher position.
On the retail side there's new construction which is virtually nonexistent unless you're building a next phase or a fill-in to finish off a project.
Hotels and motels are experiencing pretty good trends right now but new construction is still limited.
Industrial limited by the same views that C&amp;I customers are when they're not sure what we're going to need in the future.
And as I said earlier the coasts are stronger than the middle of the country where we have a lot of our business.
So for us the growth you're seeing is an extension of invitations by customers that we've not worked with before and current customers reducing the number of banks they're using and giving us first shot in many cases to have a higher position.
Nothing magic but there's no -- I have no guard rails on this one.
If the right business is there I trust this group and our underwriting to take all that they can.
I'm not concerned about the concentration but I'm also telling you we're not going to get probably half as much as we could have because we simply don't think it's strong enough right now to get that deep into that business.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
I am assuming again within that portfolio you haven't changed kind of the underwriting standards in terms of what you traditionally required in the past as you mentioned.
No I mean This is Bill no we -- short answer: no we haven't changed our underwriting standards.
By the way -- by the way anywhere.
Research Division</strong> And then I'd just segue into the card portfolio.
Again stabilizing credit metrics over the last couple of quarters.
If you could just kind of give us an update in terms of where you think that portfolio is headed at this point if you're doing anything different from a marketing or point-of-sale customer contact position? One of the efforts we have which has been very successful is telling through the branches.
So we've -- obviously we've always had direct mail as a source but we've made a point of improving our originations out of our retail branches.
That gets a very high-quality customer one that we can provide other products and services to.
So that's one change we've really focused on especially this year.
And in terms of just the outlook I mean the credit conditions are obviously very favorable for cards right now.
It's a competitive market but the credit outlook is very strong.
And so -- this is Richard but we're not going to go downstream on that line.
We're not going to sub-prime or near prime.
We're just not going to do that.
And that's probably a lot of opportunity and I'm not even saying those doing it are making a mistake if they get paid for.
We're simply going to stay in the very prime and as much as we can customer-generated business where we know our customer and that we believe that they would think that relationship is strong enough to make it first among few to be paid back.
So I see it as a growth business.
Our group is very good at it.
We'll continue to extract more opportunity from the customers we have but I'm not going to go into an underwriting game here to try to improve the volume.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
The point that I was just trying to make was you're kind of within your normalized band now today.
I'm just kind of more curious in terms of do you see more the growth opportunities staying within that band? Yes.
And so I think the answer is within that band yes but not to extend the band to get more.
Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush NAB Research.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sort of a big question for you.
I don't know if you listened to the Bernanke testimony yesterday.
But one of the senators went through this long litany of evil deeds associated with the banking industry including LIBOR and blowing up hedges and everything else many of which are not directly applicable to you but unfortunately your company gets caught in that same web.
But I think more ominously we're hearing from a lot of investors who are just looking at the returns from the banking industry over not just the past several years but a very long term and just saying you know what the returns haven't been there.
How do you remedy this? And how do you get your company out of this? "It's a bank therefore I dont want to invest in it" kind of psychology that seems to be developing pretty quickly here? Yes.
That's a big question.
And I saw parts of the testimony.
If there was a long rambling senator I probably checked out.
But I will tell you the way for us to tell the story for U.S.
Bank and it does derive to the entire industry eventually but the thing you got to love about a bank and you hate about a bank but you love that it's an annuity technically and literally an annuity.
And unless you have big surprises which what we're dealing with in the last couple of years you really can pretty much bank on it pun intended.
But you know this.
I mean you've got --  you can't kill it and you can't change its course very quickly because the loan book and the deposit book move fairly slowly.
But first of all you've got to ring-fence the risk and describe to your investors what those risks might be and convince them in a way you didn't used to that you have your handle on the risk and that you're not willing to take additional risks for rewards that are unsustainable.
The second thing for the U.S.
Bank story and I'm preaching to the choir here is that the derivative of our income 50% or thereabouts is coming from fee businesses like trusts and like payment businesses also serves as kind of a buffer against the vagaries of interest rates and market perception.
We hear only have half as much about what Bernanke is thinking about interest rates as somebody else because while they're all affected by the economy you and I both know we have these other cylinders that provide us with this fee business which is less consistent but also has a whole lot less variability.
So ours is to tell the story of the composition of earnings to talk about the simplicity of the business remind them of the annuity function of it identify the risks call them out ring-fence them and let people know that we've got a pretty good handle on it and always be straightforward and as consistent as we can be.
And when we have to guess -- prove that we were as close to right as possible so that next time we guess you're going to trust it.
I will say that as a ring-fence stat.
[ph] The second piece goes for the industry Nancy I don't know that I'll be here long enough for the industry to get its legs back and the reputation it probably used to have.
We have done a lot of studies.
We know that people love their bankers.
That's who they pick.
They actually like their bank that's what they pick.
They actually hate this industry because they've been told to hate it.
And every once in a while there's another break-in in the neighborhood that doesn't help.
So I think we have to work from the bottom up and let each bank rehabilitate its own relationship with its customers.
Eventually that will pass through.
And I think high tide helps everybody.
And when the economy does get better and it will and the banks can prove themselves to be the catalyst to that big recovery a situation which we used to do and I think we will just de facto be one of the reasons for it then I think a lot of that criticism starts to fall away and a future senator in a future hearing won't feel the need to pick on a bank for the popularity of beliefs but actually might actually thank the bank for having been there when they need it to be.
But that's years away.
So in the meantime we'll mind our own business tell our own story and cross our fingers.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
This story that's in L.A.
is sort of demonstrative that it's nebulous it's not true but these municipalities feel that they can throw that out there and get some bucks in turn from some settlement somewhere.
And as we look at the Wells Fargo settlement we see that actually does work.
I mean how long do you think it's going to take this stuff specifically around your company to go away? Is it just a residual of the housing crisis and when the housing crisis turns that kind of stuff finally goes away? I think the housing crisis is the original issue but let's agree that it's basically an economy.
So the weak economy causes the City of LA to have a city attorney looking for places to raise up revenue.
And what they're asking us to do there is change the legal bounds upon which a trustee's responsibility because they can get to the original servicers.
So the housing is the reason for the topic and frankly people forget that there are 3 places where people own houses.
There are the GSEs by far the majority.
There are the banks that own them outright which people spent all their time on.
And then there's this private group of trusts that own the RMBSs and no one can get to them.
And there's no construct to get that group together.
It's like a bad co-op getting together for their annual meeting in Apartment 16B.
I mean you can't get them together to identify where they can agree to reduce the value of their trusts in order to get the houses onto the market.
So they're going to go through another door.
I should only hope that it doesn't impede the original goal of the trustee because if the changes the rules of what that means then I don't know that anybody would want to be a trustee if all the responsibility falls to them eventually through some eyes of the law and so far that hasn't happened.
But I think answering your question I think as long as the economy is weak everybody everywhere will seek a place where there might be a deeper pocket to try to find an opportunity even if it's not legal to raise the specter of question and try to find some opportunity.
I'm not a settler I don't like to settle much at all because I think right is right and I'm a fairness doctrine guy.
At the end of the day I'll settle if it's better for my shareholders but not at all in the first second or third pass because it's just wrong if it's not right.
And so we'll hold on a little longer to make sure we get treated fairly at the end of the day.
We'll do what's right at the end.
I'll tell you Nancy this a multiyear issue and we'll probably face this and many others we haven't heard from yet as an industry for the next couple until the economy is assuredly on its feet and doing well again.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I think you've talked some about the interest rate environment but you could elaborate more? How much more negative impact could there be if rates stay at these unexpectedly low levels.
Well Mike this is Andy.
We're expecting them to stay at this level for the rest of the year certainly and that is the environment for which we're projecting relatively stable net interest margin because again the headwind of the reinvestment risk on the securities portfolio is essentially offset by the opportunity on the reestablishment of our debt at a lower cost.
And those 2 things right now as far as we can see the rest of this year stabilize our margin to today's levels.
Research Division</strong> But more generally if over the next 3 years we have the rate curve the way it is today are you half done with the pain or you expect a lot more pain for you or for the industry? Because one bank yesterday said well it's all done.
It's all in the numbers and these low rates shouldn't hurt anymore.
Whereas I thought you gave one presentation saying oh no it could actually hurt some.
Yes.
So Mike for the rest of the year again it's stable.
If this exact rate environment went into next year I think for us and for industry it will be a little bit of a negative bias because the yield curve is relatively flat.
Low rates are at the low and the short end rates are as low as they're going to go.
And we are as you know positively biased to an increase in rates.
We're asset-sensitive so we would benefit from an increase in rates or a steeper yield curve.
I dont think it's material next year if it stays at the current level but there's a negative bias.
Research Division</strong> And longer term you go 2 or 3 years out? I would have the same answer.
Research Division</strong> So not material though? Continued negative bias but not hugely material.
Research Division</strong> And then separately as far as acquisitions what's your appetite? One thing you can do on an environment with some revenue headwinds is cut more costs or buy other banks.
Where do you stand on that? Well we always look at opportunities that are presented.
I will tell you that right now it's a fairly quiet environment in terms of M&amp;A.
There isn't a lot of activity going on from the traditional bank standpoint.
What you've seen us in the past look at are small corporate trust transactions payments transactions that's both on a merchant acquiring side as well as the card issuing side and those types of things are always in the works.
None of them are huge and material but those are the types of things we're focused on.
And Mike we have all the powder we need both time energy and capital if we want to go after something.
So it's not an issue of not wanting to.
We just don't have anything that's out there we like.
And we look at a lot of things and turn them down because the price points aren't very attractive.
I think you'll see between now and the end of the year a number of payments and/or corporate trust deals that won't register at headline level but they'll continue to be the calling together of opportunity that we think present itself for scale and/or efficiency in markets and we're going to continue to deliver those to you all.
But in terms as Andy said of traditional bank deals they're simply not out there at the level we like and we're not reaching for them because we don't need them.
Your next question comes from the line of David George Baird.
Research Division</strong> Question on capital.
You bought back looks like 13 million shares.
You returned over 50% again of your earnings to shareholders on the quarter.
I notice you released kind of your estimate of the new Basel guidelines at 7.9% using that math.
Does that make you think any differently about buybacks? Are you -- does that change your view on returning capital near term? Sure.
This is Andy.
We as you know the new rules came out in June 7.
On June 7 as we worked through the new rules we paused our buybacks for the remainder of the second quarter.
The new rules resulted in about a 7% increase in our risk-weighted assets.
We are bound by the standardized approach because our capital ratios would actually be better or higher under the advanced approaches.
So we're bound by the standardized.
We -- as you also -- as we also talked about moved about $12 billion from available-for-sale to held-to-maturity in our securities portfolio because we intend to hold those securities and because it reduces the volatility.
So given all that our target capital ratio under the new calculation is approximately 8%.
And as you mentioned we're at 7.9% so we expect to be there in the third quarter and expect to continue to go back to the buyback program in the third quarter.
So let me -- this is Richard.
Let me just make it easier.
I'll do the math for you.
Last quarter we're at 8.4% Tier 1 under Basel III and we've stated our goal of 8.15%.
That 8.15% was 7 plus 0.5 for a buffer for domestic SIFI which we have no guidance for and 0.65 for just other buffers.
Based on the actions that Andy just talked about we think that the OCI volatility is lower.
So we're bringing that 8.15% down to 8% which is 0.5 and 0.5.
And we're now at 7.9% under the new rules.
So we went from 8.4% compared to 8.15%.
Now we're at 7.9% compared to 8%.
And based on your question and his answer we'll accrete back to 8% very quickly in this quarter and then we'll continue our way.
And your final question comes from the line of Paul Miller FBR.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the again your average balance sheet on your NIM.
And I think one of the first questions you talked about -- somebody asked a question about how much borrowings you got repricing.
Are they short-term borrowings or long-term borrowings that are repricing? Yes It's a combination of both Paul and it's about $6.5 billion that is going to mature.
So it's not repricing.
It's maturing third quarter that will be replaced by either other issued debt or deposits.
Research Division</strong> And then on your time deposits you have $14 billion that same relatively consistent.
My guess is most of that is a 1-year paper.
Is that repricing also and what type of level are they repricing at? Yes.
So I would say our deposit balances in total including those time deposits that you're referring to are repricing but the differential on what's coming on versus what's coming off is not as dramatic as the debt side of the equation.
Research Division</strong> So you have CDs that you're repricing above 1%? We have either the differential between what's coming off and on is not nearly the same again as what the debt differential is.
And that's why we focused on that because that debt differential is the big tailwind [indiscernible] on the securities.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the security portfolio did you guys disclose if you did because I've been jumping all around today what type of CPR rates you were seeing on those portfolios? We did not and it hasn't changed dramatically.
We have a little bit higher prepayments because of the rate environment but it wasn't a dramatic change from where it has been the last few quarters.
Research Division</strong> And your duration.
I think you said it's short-term.
But have you disclosed what it is? I think it's -- is it around 3 years? It's under that number.
What we're putting on what the duration of -- what the average life of the book is stated in our Q.
The duration is in that 2-year neighborhood.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to you for closing remarks.
Good thank you Holly and thank you all for listening to our results.
If you have any follow-up questions as usual feel free to call.
And we will talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation on today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to U.S.
Bancorp's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon Eastern Daylight Time through Wednesday October 24 at 12:00 midnight Eastern Daylight Time.
I will now turn the conference call over to Judy Murphy Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Jodi and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorp's third quarter 2012 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analysts' schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings on the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thanks Judy and good morning everyone.
I'm very proud to share our third quarter results with you today.
I'd like to begin with the highlights on Page 3 of the presentation.
U.S.
Bancorp recorded -- reported record net income of $1.5 billion for the third quarter of 2012 or $0.74 per diluted common share.
Total record net revenue of $5.2 billion was 8% higher than the same quarter of last year driven by a 6.1% increase in net interest income and 10.4% increase in fee revenue.
Importantly we achieved positive operating leverage on both a year-over-year and on a linked quarter basis.
Total average loans grew year-over-year by 7.3% or 1.3% linked quarter or 1.6% linked quarter excluding the impact from the sale of a credit card portfolio.
We experienced strong loan growth in total average deposits of 11.1% over the prior year and 3.5% over the second quarter of 2012.
Credit quality continued to improve.
Although total net charge-offs increased by 3.5% over the prior quarter they included $54 million of incremental charge-offs related to a clarification by the regulators as to the treatment of a collateralized consumer loans to consumers that have filed Chapter 7 bankruptcy but continue to make payments on their loans.
Excluding this change net charge-offs decreased by 6.9% quarter-to-quarter.
Nonperforming assets excluding covered assets declined by 3% linked quarter.
Excluding the additional $109 million of consumer assets related to the regulatory clarification nonperforming assets declined by 7.8% from the prior quarter.
We generated significant capital this quarter through earnings and ended the quarter with a Basel I Tier 1 common equity ratio of 9% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.9%.
Our estimated Tier 1 common ratio under the most recent Basel III rules was 8.2%.
We repurchased 17 million shares of common stock during the third quarter and consequently we were able to return 67% of our earnings to our shareholders this quarter through dividends and buybacks.
Trends in our industry-leading performance metrics are shown on Slide 4.
Return on average assets in the third quarter was 1.7% and return on average common equity was 16.5%.
Both ratios are within our company's long-term goal to achieve a normalized ROA in the range of 1.6% to 1.9% and an ROE between 16% and 19%.
Our net interest margin and efficiency ratio are shown on the graph on the right-hand side of Slide 4.
This quarter's net interest margin of 3.59% was 6 basis points lower than the same quarter of last year and as expected relatively stable compared with the prior quarter's rate of 3.58%.
And Andy will discuss the margin in more detail in a few minutes.
Our efficiency ratio for the third quarter was 50.4% lower than both the prior year and previous quarter as we continue to manage expenses effectively.
We expect that this ratio will remain in the low-50s going forward.
Turning to Slide 5.
The company recorded record total net revenue in the third quarter of $5.2 billion an increase of 8% over the prior year's quarter and 2.2% higher than the previous quarter.
The company's revenue benefited from growth in both our balance sheet and our fee-based business lines and once again mortgage banking was particularly strong.
Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on Slide 6.
Average total loans outstanding increased by $14.7 billion or 7.3% year-over-year.
As expected linked quarter growth in average total loans was down slightly from the previous quarter as balances grew 1.3% compared with the second quarter's linked quarter growth of 1.9%.
Recall however that we sold the branded credit card portfolio on August 1 that totaled approximately $735 million.
Excluding the impact of this sale average total loans would have been higher by 1.6% on a linked quarter basis.
Overall excluding covered loans our runoff portfolio average total loans grew by 9.6% year-over-year and 2% linked quarter.
The increase in average loans outstanding was primarily due once again to strong growth in commercial loans which grew by 21.9% year-over-year and 4.2% over the prior quarter.
Residential real estate loans also showed strong growth 20.4% over the same quarter of last year and 4.6% over the prior quarter.
Within the other retail loan category home equity line and loan activity remains subdued while auto loans and leases continues to show steady growth.
We continue to originate and renew loans and lines for our customers.
New originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments totaled over $45 billion this quarter.
Total revolving corporate and commercial commitments outstanding increased year-over-year by 21% and 3.5% on a linked quarter basis while utilization remained fairly consistent at approximately 25.7%.
Total average deposits increased by $23.9 billion or 11.1% over the same quarter of last year and by $8 billion on a linked quarter basis or 3.5%.
All of our business lines contributed to this growth.
Turning to Slide 7 and credit quality.
Total net charge-offs in the third quarter increased by 3.5% over the second quarter of 2012 but decreased 6.9% excluding the $54 million related to the regulatory clarification on Chapter 7 loans.
Nonperforming assets excluding covered assets decreased by 3% or 7.8% without the $109 million related to the Chapter 7 loans.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 0.99% essentially flat to the prior quarter and excluding the charge-offs related to the regulatory clarification the ratio was 0.89%.
During the third quarter we released $50 million of reserves compared with $50 million in the second quarter and $150 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Given the overall quality of our portfolio we expect net charge-offs and nonperforming assets to continue to trend lower in the fourth quarter.
I will now turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Richard.
Slide 8 gives you a view of our third quarter 2012 results versus comparable time periods.
Our record diluted EPS of $0.74 was 15.6% higher than third quarter 2011 and 4.2% higher than the prior quarter.
The key drivers of the company's third quarter earnings are summarized on Slide 9.
The $201 million or 15.8% increase in net income year-over-year was the result of an 8% increase in net revenue and a decrease in the provision for credit losses partially offset by a 5.4% increase in noninterest expense.
Net interest income increased year-over-year by $159 million or 6.1%.
The increase was largely driven by a 7.9% increase in average earning assets in addition to strong growth and low-cost deposits and reduced rates on wholesale funding.
The 7.9% growth in average earning assets included planned increases in the securities portfolio as well as growth in average total loans and loans held for sale.
As expected net interest margin was relatively stable at 3.59% and was 6 basis points lower than the same quarter of last year primarily due to the increase in lower-yielding investment securities partially offset by growth in low-cost deposits and lower-cost wholesale funding.
Noninterest income increased by 10.4% year-over-year.
Mortgage banking revenue was strong again this quarter as production increased by over 87% year-over-year gain on sale margins improved and servicing revenue rose.
Also contributing to the favorable variance from last year were increases in trust and investment management fees and commercial products revenue.
In addition as we mentioned in early September other income in the third quarter included a net impact to the sale of the card portfolio and a loss associated with our investment in Nuveen.
These positive variances were partially offset by a 26.3% decrease in credit and debit card fees year-over-year primarily due to legislative changes to debit card interchange.
Noninterest expense was higher year-over-year by $133 million or 5.4%.
The majority of the increase can be attributed to an increase in professional services primarily due to the mortgage servicing review-related projects and higher compensation and benefits expense due to business expansion and activity.
Net income was higher on a linked quarter basis by $59 million or 5 -- 4.2%.
This favorable variance was a result of a 2.2% increase in net revenue partially offset by a 3.8% increase in the provision for credit losses and a 0.3% increase in noninterest expense.
On a linked quarter basis net interest income was higher by 2.6%.
Average earning assets grew by $5.2 billion and the net interest income margin rose by 1 basis point over the second quarter the net result of the positive impact from lower-cost wholesale funding offset by repricing of the investment securities portfolio.
The average balance of our investment securities portfolio was $72.5 billion in the third quarter $6.2 billion higher than the third quarter of 2011 but slightly lower than the previous quarter.
Assuming stable cash balances and the current Basel III liquidity requirements we expect to maintain the investment securities portfolio at or around this level for the next few quarters.
Also given the current interest rate environment we expect the net interest margin to be down a few basis points in the fourth quarter principally due to the repricing risk on the investment securities portfolio.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest income was higher by $41 million or 1.7%.
This favorable variance was primarily the result of growth in mortgage banking and a net positive impact from the credit card portfolio sale and the write-down of our investment in Nuveen as well as growth in corporate payment products revenue deposit service charges and commercial products revenue.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest expense was higher by just $8 million primarily due to the higher commissions and incentive-based compensation marketing and business development expense and higher tax credit investment expense all of which were essentially offset by the favorable variance from the second quarter Visa settlement charge.
Turning to Slide 10.
Our capital position remains strong and continues to grow.
We have included estimates of our Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted asset ratio using the Basel III proposed rules published both before and after June 7.
Based on our assessment of the full impact of the current proposed rules for the Basel III standardized approach we have estimated that our Basel III Tier 1 common ratio was approximately 8.2% as of September 30 versus the 7.9% at June 30.
At 8.2% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement and above our targeted ratio of 8%.
Slide 11 provides updated detail on the company's mortgage purchase-related expense and the reserve for expected losses on repurchases and make-whole payments.
Our outstanding repurchases and make-whole payments request balance at September 30 was $180 million compared with $164 million at June 30.
During the quarter of 2012 -- third quarter 2012 we added $36 million to the reserve and believe the level of reserves at September 30 is appropriate.
We continue to expect mortgage purchase requests to remain fairly stable over the next several quarters.
I'll now turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Andy.
I'm very proud to say that we once again were able to deliver a record-setting quarter.
We achieved record earnings and industry-leading performance by growing our balance sheet our customer base and our market share.
We did it by achieving record total net revenue by realizing positive operating leverage by improving our credit quality and by maintaining strong and growing capital and liquidity positions while returning 67% of our quarterly earnings to our shareholders through dividends and buybacks.
We continue to manage this company for the long term by investing in our diverse and stable mix of business by maintaining the prudent approach to risk that has served us so well throughout this latest cycle by providing our customers with the products and services they need to help them shape their future and reach their dreams and finally by supporting our employees and our communities all while producing consistent predictable and repeatable results for the benefit of our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Bill and I would now be happy to answer questions from the audience.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Erika Penala from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My question is on capital return.
It seems like the banking industry your bank in particular is coming into the stress test with clearly much stronger capital levels and it feels like the global macro picture is a little bit better than it was at this point last year.
Is it fair to assume for investors that strong banks like U.S.
Bancorp can then continue to increase their capital return levels next year? And if not what are the blind spots that you're seeing from your side that we're not seeing as investors in terms of that premise? Erika it's Richard.
I don't think there are any blind spots but I think we all see and know the same information at this stage.
Without the final rules and without the final scenario it's still the Fed's option to decide what stress scenario they want to set us up for and those assumptions are yet to be shared with us.
And unless we learn something new at this stage we're still operating under the guidelines we've been in the past couple of years of the dividends being limited to 30% of future near-term earnings and the rest being allowed for some form of share buybacks.
Until and unless we learn different rules we're going to operate under that assumption and wait for the final guidance that will come in the next few weeks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick follow-up question.
I know a lot of the management teams have been talking about the fiscal cliff as it impacts demand.
Is there -- do you think this is for Bill there would be an actual impact on credit quality if the worst-case scenario in the fiscal cliff plays out on the consumer side? It's something that -- a discussion I'm starting to hear but I guess it's not something that I've fully thought about yet.
Well if the worst case happened on the fiscal cliff I think it's fair to say we'd probably reenter a recession.
And that would be then you'd see unemployment go up and that would have an impact on consumer portfolio.
I'm hopeful that they come to some kind of resolution and I think the fiscal cliff was designed in such a way that it's so severe I think it's unlikely that there won't be some political solution that cuts the middle ground and mitigates that risk.
Erika I think -- this is Richard.
I also think when the recession started last time there was a different quality of customers that had loans from banks.
And as you think about it 5 years later a very high quality of customers now are remaining in the bank portfolios that either haven't been charged off or in fact haven't been originated.
So I do think it'd be a lagging effect certainly would be a negative effect but I don't think it would be immediate.
And I think you'd once again see the nuances of credit quality in each bank's portfolio as they would be stressed at different speeds and different depths based on the recession.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Siefers from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I'd say I guess Andy probably a question for you.
I mean you guys have been able to hold in the margin pretty well and I appreciate the color on the anticipated fee-based points of compression over the next quarter or so.
And I guess just from the way you look at things what's your sense for how long that margin compression persists? Is there some point where repricing on various pieces of the asset side just kind of get fully baked in? How are you thinking about that dynamic? And then I guess additionally you and others have been growing the resi mortgage portfolio for the last few quarters.
Was just curious for thoughts on what kind of stuff you're putting on if there's been any change in what types of mortgages you're willing to put on just given all the variables at play.
Okay.
So first on the margin.
As a reminder this quarter third quarter we improved by 1 basis point principally due to improvement in our wholesale funding because some high debt was rolling off.
We talked about that we said it'd be relatively stable.
That offset the headwind of the repricing on the securities portfolio.
In the fourth quarter we don't have as much debt rolling off but we continue to have the headwind on the repricing -- on the securities portfolio and that's what's causing the few basis points down.
What happened in the last 30 or 60 days is that sort of 2-year period to 5-year period of the yield curve and what we're buying has come down 25 to 30 basis points.
And that's the headwind we're seeing.
The loan and deposit side are sort of offsetting so my focus is on the securities portfolio.
And that 2- to 5-year area is where we're focused on and our duration is sort of closer to the lower end of that range.
So that's where we're focused on for quarter 4.
I'm not going to project out to next year yet because there are a lot of moving parts here and things can change rapidly as we saw the last 30 days.
So a few basis points in the fourth quarter.
Whatever we face in 2013 will be manageable but that principal headwind is securities portfolio.
In terms of what we're putting on the balance sheet on our residential mortgage it's principally a product we call Smart Refinance which is a branch-based high-quality typically 15-years-and-in mortgage product that again has originated out of our branches.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Arfstrom from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on loan growth.
You obviously had a decent quarter when you adjust for the card portfolio sale but it looks like the commercial and the commercial real estate the pace is a little bit slower still good numbers.
But Richard just a question for you.
Is the loan growth a little weaker than you thought? Is it normal in your view? Does it reflect an increase in borrower caution? And then maybe do you see any changes in that in terms of Q4 and beyond? I think the answer is yes yes and yes.
[indiscernible] lost order.
I do think it's coming down.
When you look at our linked quarter and you annualize that and it's lower than our full -- our real annual number.
I think you'd see our company growing the books 6% to 7% on an annualized basis up until now and I think I'm going to guide you down to 4% to 6% in the next quarter and until we know what happens after the election and the fiscal cliff.
I like Andy we pride ourselves on giving you guys really I think high-quality guidance and we don't want to go too far out when there's too many variables.
I do think that is emblematic though of customers feeling less comfortable.
I think it makes sense too.
I mean we're not surprised.
I wish it was higher but I think it makes sense because you've got the near-term election uncertainty you've got the fiscal cliff uncertainty you've got the European recession you've got the economy.
And those are -- all those are not going to be solved imminently but they are going to be solved eventually.
So I'm going to be pleased with 4% to 6% annualized.
We'll take anything we can get above that.
Commercial is a great proxy for I think sentiment.
And while it's still growing nicely people are getting more lines than they're using and they're still not using the lines they have.
So I think that uncertainty reminds us that there's still plenty of pent-up possibility.
I'll also remind you that our deposits continue to grow at amazing levels and much as I like that those deposits need to start getting used first.
And after that the lines of credit will get used and then eventually new lines will be originated and used.
So we're still in a cycle so early that we haven't seen the beginning of that set of activities where the deposits start getting used for growth and for investment.
So I think we're a ways off.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one question for Bill.
You touched a little bit on the consumer portfolio and what could happen under a fiscal cliff scenario but obviously we have $54 million of charge-offs rolling off this next quarter.
And when I look at the card portfolio those losses continue to go lower and lower.
And I guess my question for you is how long can that last in the card portfolio? How low can that go? Obviously probably going to drop under 4% this quarter but just curious on your outlook for that in terms of how good it can get.
Well in terms of rates I would say or in terms of dollars we're probably at a low point.
I mean it's not going to get much below 4%.
So that would be a great place to stay for a long period of time.
So if the economy cooperates and is steady on the employment front we'll continue to see that performance.
And anything around 4% it's extremely profitable.
Jon it's Richard.
I'll remind you that without that $54 million our prevailing charge-off level now is 0.89%.
We continue to remind you all that based on the mix of our business particularly with credit card in there we think we're at 1% over the term charge-off level and we will continue to guide that 0.89% down at least in the next quarter I think unless there's some surprise event.
So for us we're going to be at unsustainably low levels.
In a perfect world you could criticize us in hindsight for not having used our balance sheet better so we can stay at that 1% but there's no way to know what was available back when times were tough.
And we're going to be really underutilizing our balance sheet for a while until we can start to originate.
I think the industry is going to have unsustainably low levels of charge-offs and low levels of non-performs until which time things start to warm up and then you have to watch all of us to be careful on the way up that we don't get sloppy or get greedy and start making loans just because the environment warms up.
So for now it's going to be at levels that I wish were actually higher but for the near term you can expect them to trend down a bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask just a couple of quick questions on the fee side of things.
Number one it looks like -- while there's still growth in fees overall it looks like some of the payments lines have slowed on a year-over-year basis from a growth rate perspective.
I just -- I was wondering if you can kind of walk us through if there's any specific things that are happening within the businesses or is it more macro-related.
And how do you expect these businesses to grow as we look ahead? Sure Ken.
This is Andy.
So let me start with the credit card line.
The biggest impact there is the Durbin impact to us and that's just over $80 million on a year-over-year basis.
So that's the principal change there.
On the merchant line we continue to see same-store growth of somewhere between 3% and 4%.
However the DIA or the merchant discount rate is down a little bit principally due to mix because airlines are growing a little bit more rapidly.
So that's what we're seeing there.
I would expect relative stability in that rate going forward and it's back to the growth in conjunction with same-store sales which again right now we're looking at that 3% to 4% level.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you also talk a little bit about just on the commercial side as well? Yes.
So on the corporate card side of the equation we're seeing a little bit more of that going to margin as opposed to fee income.
It depends upon the frequency and the timing of the payment of their credit card balances and it's a little bit more rapid.
So you're seeing a benefit up -- or expense a little bit more expense up in margin a little less bit less on the fee category.
Again I would expect that to be relatively stable on a go-forward basis.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And on the mortgage banking side obviously another strong quarter even with a higher MSR impairment.
Could you just give us some context of just how you expect the refi environment to play out how your pipelines are looking for originations? And do you think '13 could be a kind of elongated process here as far as where the mortgage market is heading from an origination perspective? Right.
So Ken we did 21.6% -- or 20.6% in production.
65% of it was refinanced activity 35% new.
We still have a healthy pipeline on a backlog of refinance activity.
And given the current rates I would expect that the combination of refinance and our growth in taking market share and new business to allow us to have fairly healthy production well into 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then -- okay great.
And then the last real quick one is just regarding liability costs.
I know and you don't want to go into '13 guidance on NIM but just a question just about the right side of the balance sheet.
I know you have fewer debt retiring in the fourth but you still have the rollover of what happened in part of this quarter and still kind of an all-in higher cost of wholesale borrowings.
How much room do you still have as far as both wholesale cost and on core deposit cost to continue to lower interest bearing liability cost? Right.
So on the debt runoff side we had about $6 billion runoff in the third quarter.
On a go-forward basis the next few quarters I would expect that to be closer to $1 billion to $2 billion.
So the rate of decline or runoff or rollover will certainly come down and that will help us less but still help us.
We still have a little bit of room on deposits because while the deposit rate in total is low you have to remember within there there are categories that are paying well above that and categories that are paying 0 to just a few basis points.
So we have a little bit of room there.
And as we talked about our loan spreads on a spread basis have been relatively stable on the wholesale side of the equation.
So I think we can manage fairly effectively the loan versus the deposit side.
That headwind continues to be the repricing on the securities portfolio.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Because if you're putting on 4-some-things against a 40-basis-point incremental cost of deposits you're still -- your loan versus deposit is still better than your average margin is.
Yes that is correct.
And as you think about the securities portfolio the way I think about it is what's running off is coming off.
It's somewhere between 230 and 240 [ph].
And what we're putting on we're being very conservative in what we're putting on.
It's probably coming on 75 basis points below that.
So that's the difference.
And we have a runoff somewhere between $1 billion and $2 billion a month.
Ken this is Richard.
I'm going to go back to mortgage for a minute and offer something you didn't ask.
We really like the mortgage business.
And we're going to continue to invest in it and we're continuing to grow in it.
We've got great market share positions but we're also seeing a lot of other value that comes from being in the mortgage business.
Eventually this is unsustainable.
These numbers aren't going to be this way forever.
We know that.
So we're building the future of the bank to find alternative ways to develop fee businesses and find other things through our payments and our corporate trusts.
And so we're not going to rely on this forever but as long as interest rates are low we have a pretty robust near-term future that we think this continues at some of these same levels.
Eventually rates go up refis will fall.
They'll go quickly at first and then they'll fall to almost nothing.
And there will be a purchase money shop and we want to still be in the top rankings of national performance in the purchase area.
And when rates go up then the balance sheet will make money in other places and we hope that those will offset as well.
But we know this is not a sustainable forever kind of position but we're not going to forgive it or give it away.
While we're in it we're going to keep growing it.
Our quality is good our market position is good our reputation is good and we're going to play that as far as we can at least well into next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Ketron from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Richard you talked about continuing to pick up market share and you guys have done a great job of taking advantage of your position through the cycle.
In the current environment are you finding it -- and it's hard to gain market share.
Are you finding it continuing to be I won't call it easy but able to gain market share? Or are you seeing competition become more difficult on that front? Yes it's a mixed bag.
I mean we're still enjoying what we call this flight to quality where especially the more sophisticated customers from corporate down to middle market they value those debt ratings they value our #1 position.
That means a lot to them.
And so that is getting stronger actually as these quarters go by because they're valuing it and they understand the difference.
As you get to the more consumer side there's still -- much as I'd like to think that every consumer is paying attention to ratings and bank performance they're not often they're more measured by the quality of the relationship the individuals that they deal with and the -- in some cases the location.
Therefore I think we have to duke it out in the streets in the old-fashioned way for market share and earn it through customer quality and product sets and doing things like mobile banking and mobile payments and things that are cutting-edge where other companies might follow.
So that's probably more a traditional way of thinking of it.
I will say that on the wholesale side we still see the retreat of the European banks giving us benefit in higher syndication positions and new involvements in deals that we weren't before.
I'd also say on the other side of the spectrum the community banks which used to be very very robust and quite hard to compete with they have been muted as well for reasons that are pretty obvious and they're not giving us quite the same margin compression or the irrational competition we've had in past.
So I'd say overall we're enjoying this flight to quality.
It actually gets stronger as the quarters age.
And I guess answering your question it probably is a little easier actually.
And I'll tell you what it darn well better be because this team the way we're going to make money in this difficult long-term environment with rates low and yield curves flat is we're going to have to do it by market share and that's the only way you can do it.
And after all these years of all sitting around everybody is saying we're growing market share and you're wondering if anybody is.
I think we are and we're going to continue to make that a real reason for us to emerge eventually a strong bank when times get great.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I appreciate the color.
And then one question on share repurchase.
I know you did $16 million in the first quarter $13 million in the second quarter and then $17 million in the third quarter.
You're authorized to do $100 million under the CCAR process.
Is the way to think about it that you've purchased $30 million of the $100 million so far under CCAR or would you look at that as more like $46 million under CCAR and you still have roughly half to go? I would look at it the $30 million quarters 2 and 3 for the most part.
A little bit of the quarter 1 was under the new authorization but very little and part of the difference is the difference in share price.
So -- and again as a reminder it goes through the first quarter of 2013.
We put our own governor on as you recall when the capital fell below the 8%.
We withheld buybacks until we got back to that level and now we're back at 8.2%.
But I want you to know that in and above the roles and the responsibilities of CCAR we'll do what we need to do that's right for the company and we'll manage ourselves within those bounds to give you the right answer.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Werner from Morningstar Equity.
Research Division</strong> Could you give a little more color on the commercial loan growth? I was wondering how much came from current lines versus new customers.
And then just to kind of follow up on the previous question.
Have you found it more difficult to acquire new customers given what's going on in the world with the fiscal cliff and the election? And do you expect better results or better new customer growth after the election? This is Bill.
I think since our utilization has really not budged in fact it's still at sort of all-time lows.
So the growth we see is across all of our wholesale areas.
It's in the corporate area the middle market area even small business.
So we've seen good growth across areas.
It is market share.
As far as the impact in the fourth quarter reiterating what Richard said we do see caution out there.
But we think assuming we get past all the uncertainties over the next 2 3 months we do see a resumption of activity early next year.
So we do anticipate to continue to grow our market share next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a second question.
In the investment portfolio what type of securities are you adding on as securities are being called or mature? Principally Freddie Fannie and Ginnie Maes just a very small amount of treasuries keeping a fairly short duration in that 2-or-so year category.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any thoughts on when you think you may go longer duration.
I mean -- or is that just kind of too far to look out given the current rate environment? We're trying to be very conservative about this and continue to remain asset-sensitive and that's where we're managing the balance sheet.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now turn it back over to the presenters for any closing remarks.
Well this is Richard.
Thank you for your interest in the company.
I think maybe by the lack of questions I hope you know that this is a pretty standard almost boring quarter and a pretty boring bank.
We're pretty proud of that.
And I think you can count on us to continue to give you guidance in public settings to help you be close to where you expect us to be and I think we've done that here today.
And we're in an environment that's not going to be easy for anybody.
But if anybody is going to do well then it's going to be us.
And we'll continue to not provide any surprises or throw anything your way that you didn't see coming.
So thank you for that.
Great.
Thanks all for listening to the call.
And as usual if you have any questions please feel free to call either myself or Sean O'Connor in Investor Relations.
Thanks a lot.
That concludes today's U.S.
Bancorp's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the U.S.
Bancorp's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon Eastern standard time through Wednesday January 23 at 12:00 midnight Eastern standard time.
I will now turn the conference call over to Judy Murphy Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Christie and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorp's fourth quarter and full year 2012 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Judy and good morning everyone.
2012 was a great year for our company and I'm very proud to share our fourth quarter and full year results with you this morning.
I'd like to begin with a few full year highlights on Page 3 of the presentation.
U.S.
Bancorp reported record net income of $5.6 billion or $2.84 per diluted common share for the year 2012.
We achieved record total net revenue of $20.3 billion which was higher than the previous year by 6.2% driven by growth in both net interest income and fee revenue.
We achieved industry-leading profitability with a return on average assets of 1.65% and a return on average common equity of 16.2% an efficiency ratio of 51.5% and we realized positive operating leverage year-over-year.
Average loans grew by 6.9% over 2011 and we experienced strong year-over-year average deposit growth of 10.6%.
Credit quality continued to improve with a decline in net charge-offs of 26.2% and an 18.9% decrease in nonperforming assets excluding covered assets.
Our capital position ended the year stronger with a Tier 1 common equity ratio of 9% and we were able to return $3.4 billion of our 2012 earnings to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.
Now turning to Slide 4 and our fourth quarter highlights.
U.S.
Bancorp reported net income of $1.4 billion for the fourth quarter of 2012 or $0.72 per diluted common share.
Included in the current quarter was an $80 million expense accrual for the recently announced mortgage foreclosure settlement which reduced EPS by $0.03.
Recall that the fourth quarter of 2011 included 2 notable items that increased EPS by $0.05.
Total net revenue of $5.1 billion was slightly higher than the same quarter of last year.
Excluding the prior year merchant settlement gain however total net revenue grew by 5.6%.
Importantly we achieved positive operating leverage year-over-year.
Total average loans grew year-over-year by 6.4% and as expected 1.5% or 6% annualized linked quarter.
We experienced strong loan growth -- strong growth in total average deposits of 9.2% over the prior year and 1.9% over the third quarter of 2012.
Credit quality continued to improve.
Total net charge-offs decreased by $70 million or 13% from the prior quarter.
You may recall that the third quarter net charge-off included $54 million of incremental charge-offs related to a regulatory policy clarification.
Nonperforming assets excluding covered assets declined by 4.6% linked quarter.
We generated significant capital this quarter and ended the quarter with a Basel I Tier 1 common equity ratio of 9% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.8%.
Our estimated Tier 1 common ratio under the most recent Basel III rules was 8.1%.
We repurchased 13 million shares of common stock during the fourth quarter.
Trends in our industry-leading performance metrics are shown on Slide 5.
Return on average assets in the fourth quarter was 1.62% and return on average common equity was 15.6%.
Both ratios declined from the prior quarter primarily as a result of the mortgage foreclosure-related expense accrual.
As a reminder our company's long-term goal is to achieve a normalized ROA in the range of 1.6% to 1.9% and an ROE between 16% and 19%.
Our net interest margin and efficiency ratio are shown in the graph on the right-hand side of Slide 4.
This quarter's net interest margin of 3.55% was 5 basis points lower than the same quarter of last year and as expected 4 basis points lower than the prior quarter's rate of 3.59%.
Andy will discuss the margin in more detail in a few minutes.
Our efficiency ratio for the fourth quarter was 52.6% slightly better than the prior year but higher than the previous quarter primarily reflecting the $80 million mortgage-related settlement expense accrual that was included in our current quarter's results.
We continue to manage our operating expenses effectively and expect that this ratio will remain in the low-50s going forward as we continue to invest and grow our businesses.
Turning to Slide 6.
The company's reported total net revenue in the fourth quarter of $5.1 billion a slight increase over the prior year's quarter and a 1.3% decrease from the previous quarter.
As noted on the slide the year-over-year increase in total net revenue would have been 5.6% excluding the impact of the fourth quarter of 2011 gain.
The company's revenues benefited from continued growth in both our balance sheet and fee-based businesses particularly mortgage as we have significantly increased our market share over the past few years.
Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on Slide 7.
Average total loans outstanding increased by over $13 billion or 6.4% year-over-year.
Overall excluding covered loans of runoff portfolio average total loans grew by 8.6% year-over-year and 2% linked quarter.
Once again the increase in average loans outstanding was led by a strong growth in average commercial loans which grew by 18.4% year-over-year and 3.3% over the prior quarter.
Residential real estate loans also continued to show strong growth 19% over the same quarter of last year and 5.3% over the prior quarter.
Within the other retail loan category home equity line and loans continued to decline on average while auto loans and leases showed steady growth over both comparable periods.
We continue to originate and renew loans and lines for our customers.
New originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments totaled over $49 billion in the fourth quarter and totaled over $176 billion for the full year of 2012.
Total average revolving corporate and commercial commitments outstanding increased year-over-year by 15.6% and 2.5% on a linked quarter basis while utilization remained stable at approximately 25% basically what it's been through the entire year of 2012.
Total average deposits increased by $20.5 billion or 9.2% over the same quarter of last year and by $4.6 billion on a linked quarter basis with growth in low-cost deposits particularly strong quarter-over-quarter.
Turning to Slide 8 and credit quality.
Total net charge-offs in the fourth quarter decreased by $70 million or 13% from the third quarter of 2012 while nonperforming assets excluding covered assets decreased by $100 million or 4.6%.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding declined to 0.85% indicative of the high quality of our portfolio.
During the fourth quarter we released $25 million of reserves compared with $50 million in the third quarter and $125 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Given the mix and overall quality of our portfolio we expect net charge-offs to be relatively stable to modestly down in the first quarter while nonperforming assets will continue to trend lower.
Andy will now give you a few more details about our fourth quarter results Thanks Richard.
Slide 9 gives you a view of our fourth quarter 2012 results versus comparable time periods.
Our diluted EPS of $0.72 was 4.3% higher than the fourth quarter of 2011 and 2.7% lower than the prior quarter.
Slide 10 details notable items that impacted earnings in the fourth quarters of 2012 and 2011.
As previously mentioned the current quarter included an $80 million foreclosure-related settlement expense accrual that reduced EPS by $0.03.
In the fourth quarter of last year noninterest income included a $263 million litigation settlement gain related to the termination of a merchant processing referral agreement.
We also booked $130 million expense accrual related to other mortgage servicing and foreclosure-related matters.
On a net basis these 2 items increased EPS by $0.05 in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The key drivers of the company's fourth quarter earnings are summarized on Slide 11.
The $70 million or 5.2% increase in net income year-over-year was a result of a slightly higher net revenue slightly lower expense and a decrease in the provision for credit losses.
Excluding the net after-tax impacts of the notable items detailed on Slide 10 net income year-over-year was higher by approximately 17%.
Net interest income increased year-over-year by $110 million or 4.1%.
The favorable variance was largely driven by the $17.1 billion increase in average earning assets in addition to strong growth in low-cost deposits and reduced rates on wholesale funding.
The 5.8% growth in average earning assets included planned increases in the securities portfolio as well as growth in average total loans and loans held for sale.
As expected the net interest margin of 3.55% was 5 basis points lower than the same quarter of last year primarily due to the increase in lower-yielding investment securities partially offset by growth in low-cost deposits lower-cost wholesale funding and reduction in cash balances held with the Fed.
Noninterest income declined by 4.2% year-over-year primarily due to the settlement gain recorded in 2011.
Excluding this prior year gain noninterest income was higher by 7.4%.
Mortgage banking revenue was strong year-over-year largely reflecting a 27% increase in production and improved gain on sale margins and higher servicing revenue.
Also contributing to the income growth were increases in trust and investment management fees retail and corporate payments revenue commercial products revenue and investment product fees and commissions.
These positive variances were partially offset by a 6.3% decrease in merchant processing the net result of higher volumes offset by lower rates and the reversal of revenue share accrual in the fourth quarter of 2011.
In addition ATM processing services revenue was lower the result of a request within occupancy expense and other income declined as the fourth quarter of 2011 included a $29 million Visa gain.
Noninterest expense was lower year-over-year by $10 million or 0.4%.
The majority of the favorable variance can be attributed to the net $50 million impact of the notable items listed on Slide 10 as well as lower ORE and FDIC insurance expense partially offset by an increase in professional services primarily due to the mortgage servicing review-related projects higher compensation and benefits expense and an increase in tax credit investment cost and technology expense.
Net income was lower on a linked quarter basis by $54 million or 3.7% primarily due to the $80 million settlement expense accrual.
Excluding this charge net income was essentially flat to the third quarter as a result of a 1.3% decline in net revenue partially offset by a 9.2% reduction in the provision for credit losses.
On a linked quarter basis net interest income was flat as growth in average earning assets which grew by $3.3 billion was offset by a 4-basis-point decline in net interest margin primarily due to the repricing of the investment securities portfolio and lower loan rates.
The average balance of our investment securities portfolio was $72.9 billion in the fourth quarter $4.1 billion higher than the fourth quarter of 2011 and just slightly higher than the previous quarter.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest income was lower by $67 million or 2.8%.
This unfavorable variance was primarily the result of a decrease in mortgage banking revenue.
Although mortgage production was higher linked quarter by approximately 2.7% applications were lower by 6.7%.
The change in mortgage banking revenue also reflected a lower gain on sale margin and $16 million increase in the addition to the reps and warranty repurchase reserve to cover the 2004 and 2005 vintage Freddie Mac loans.
Other income also declined linked quarter as a result of the net effect of the third quarter credit card portfolio sale gain and the write-down of our investment in Nuveen.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest expense was higher by just $77 million primarily due to the $80 million settlement expense.
Going forward as a result of this settlement professional services expenses will decline as the costs associated with the mortgage servicing review which had been running approximately $50 million per quarter end.
Turning to Slide 12.
Our capital positions remain strong and continues to grow.
Based on our assessment of the full impact of the current proposed rules for Basel III standardized approach we have estimated that our Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was approximately 8.1% at December 31 versus 8.2% at September 30.
At 8.1% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement and above our targeted ratio of 8%.
Slide 13 provides updated detail on the company's mortgage purchase-related expense and the reserve for expected losses on repurchases and make-whole payments.
As we indicated in December after discussions with Freddie Mac we booked additional reserve to address the put-back risk of the loans originated in 2004 and 2005.
Consequently the addition to the reps and warranty repurchase reserve this quarter was $16 million higher than the third quarter of 2012.
Our outstanding repurchases and make-whole request balances at December 31 was $131 million compared with $118 million at September 30.
We continue to expect mortgage repurchase requests to remain fairly stable over the next several quarters.
I'll now turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Andy.
2012 was a record-setting year for U.S.
Bank.
We achieved record earnings and record total net revenue resulting in industry-leading performance metrics.
And further we continue to invest in our businesses and strategically acquired new partners.
We added more customers and grew market share.
We maintained strong and growing capital and liquidity positions.
And we returned $3.4 billion of the company's earnings to our shareholders and next year we expect to return more.
In 2013 we will celebrate the 150th anniversary of U.S.
Bank.
Since our charter was signed in 1863 we have managed through the times of prosperity and adversity.
We've grown by investing in our business through acquisition.
We have learned from and capitalized on the lessons of our past and become what we are today a company with a well-diversified business model and a prudent risk management a company with the ability to produce consistent predictable and repeatable results.
We're focused on the future and continuing to build momentum into 2013 for the benefit of our customers our employees our communities and our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Bill and I would now be happy to answer questions from the audience.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jon Arfstrom with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question for you on loan growth.
Good average loan growth but it looks like the period-end loans are maybe even a little bit higher a little bit better.
And curious if there's anything notable about the growth and if you've noticed any change in sentiment of the borrowers maybe positive or negative early on in the year.
Yes.
John this is Richard.
There's -- it's pretty much the same story.
I think the fiscal cliff uncertainty caused the very last couple of weeks to be a bit muted.
But if you take quarter 4 and look into quarter 1 I think at the end of the day you're going to see a pretty sustainable range of that 4% to 6% annualized.
We came in at the high end of that range in quarter 4.
I think we're on track for the high end of that for quarter 1 but I wouldn't jump outside of that range based on what I'm seeing.
I don't think that people care as much about the debt ceiling and the debate that will occur later in the quarter as they do about the bottom line to their paychecks as they did about the fiscal cliff.
But I do think it's still a fairly uncertain environment and people at the first of the year aren't jumping on anything new.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you touched on it but maybe if you can provide us a little more color on how you're thinking about capital allocation on 2013.
You talked about returning more money to shareholders but just kind of walk us through your thought process.
Yes John.
This is Andy.
We -- our goal has always been a 60% to 80% return the combination of dividends and buybacks.
We were within that range in 2012.
We would expect and we plan to be within that range in 2013.
That's how we submitted the CCAR.
And as discussed we'll hear back somewhere towards the end of March regarding the results.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Richard you said more I believe was the phrase in your...
I did so yes.
We're in the lower end of that 60% to 80% range.
It's our goal to get -- move further into that range.
I doubt that we'll get to 80% and part of the reason for that is we're still investing in the company.
You guys are allowing us to do that and I think we're getting good returns for those investments.
But the CCAR results will be known in a couple of months and we've put in a request that we think is very fair and reasonable and will help us move that deeper into the 60% to 80% range.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> On your mortgage production side can you -- do you break out what you do for retail versus wholesale? We don't break that out.
But let me give you a couple of facts Paul just to maybe round out some of the story.
Right around 69% of our production was refinance activity and gain on sale margins that you see are down a bit.
But I think an important fact too is the application because we booked the majority of our revenue at app.
And our net apps or our gross apps both of them were down about 6.7%.
Now some of that can be attributable to -- attributed to the seasonality factor that occurs in the fourth quarter particularly around the holiday season.
We still expect the first half of the year to be relatively strong from a mortgage perspective but the fourth quarter was down a bit principally due to seasonality.
Research Division</strong> And then when you're saying gain on sale margins is down slightly was it mainly -- was that also due to seasonality? Or is that more of a -- did you do more wholesale versus retail in the quarter? Probably a combination of a little bit of both.
And if I do my gain on sale from a perspective of apps it was down maybe 10 or 15 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then on your loan growth are you seeing any -- I mean I know -- Wells Fargo talked about seeing a lot of C&amp;I and whatnot in the late part of the -- in December as people try to get some things done before the fiscal cliff.
Do you -- did you see the same thing? Or could you add some color around that? We -- not really.
I wouldn't have brought it up.
I knew you'd ask.
And the M&amp;A activity was higher at year's end for all the reasons that people were trying to time and sequence their activities before a fiscal cliff possibility but not notable.
To us it was not a real impact.
As I said everything kind of slowed down at the very end of the year.
That happens anyway but to a more of a screeching halt just because people were waiting to see what happened and there's a bit of that recovery in the first few weeks as John's question might have belied.
But if you take the 2 quarters in total I don't think you'll see any distinction about that fiscal cliff when it's all said and done.
And for us the -- I'd like to give you color on loan differences by geography or loan type or customer and it really isn't much different than the last couple of quarters we've had in 2012.
So for us it's a lot more of the same.
I guess the recession was -- ended 14 quarters ago as I'm told.
It probably doesn't feel like it to all of us but whatever recovery we've been under continues to be slow and methodical and we're feeling the exact same thing.
Just a little bit better every month every quarter but it's so small you have to go back and add it together just to notice it.
So we're seeing that same phenomenon.
Not much to report.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Andy what are some of the puts and takes for the net interest margin looking forward? And what's your best guess on the near-term outlook for the NIM? Yes John.
So we talked about the fact that we expected the fourth quarter to be down 4% to 6% it was down 4%.
I would expect a similar decline in the first quarter perhaps a little bit more because the first quarter is seasonally lower with regard to loan fees both on the wholesale as well as retail side.
So down similar level perhaps a bit more because of loan fees.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if rates stay low the longer they stay low does the reinvestment rate pain begin to ease eventually? And when does that happen if rates stay where they are today? Yes it does John.
So the reinvestment risk right now is that $2 billion to $2.5 billion that runs off every month putting -- and I'm putting it back on in a conservative fashion.
The differential in spreads or rate is about 70 to 75 basis points.
Because the duration is not that long as I move into the end of this year and into '14 that starts to compress because what I'm -- what's coming off now is at a lower rate.
So that will dissipate over time.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with the loan growth dynamics that Richard talked about do you still hope to grow net interest income this year? That is our goal.
Yes.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on credit Richard I expect -- you still expect charge-offs to move lower but it sounds like maybe at a slower pace.
And then just what was the outlook on reserve releases? The answer is yes and slightly a little bit more but we're coming to an end on reserve releases.
So we're at 85 basis points for the portfolio and we've always said especially with our credit card business we should be at about 1%.
So we're going to move below that 85 probably into the high-70s.
Reserve releases come down to 0 over the course of the next few quarters because it should.
And our reserve coverage is sufficient.
Both -- it has always been and will be I think well within the range of what some of the regulators have been seeking because we don't want to under-reserve or prepare for over this cycle.
Our credit portfolio has been really really predictable and if you just draw a straight line you can just keep drawing it with the sloping settling curve on charge-offs and a continued kind of transition to lower nonperformance for a little bit longer.
Bill do you want to add any color to that? Yes.
No the -- I mean we're getting at the bottom for some of the gross charge-off rates if you look at credit cards autos even some of the commercial.
And some of the commercial real estate categories are pretty strong now.
So on the wholesale side some of the impact will be really on the recovery levels that we see which can -- those are more difficult to project.
So we might see a little bit up and down based on recovery levels.
But overall it's just still working out some of the residual residential mortgage and home equity which will still take another year or 2.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And regarding the new FASB proposals suggesting a life of loan expected loss approach do we have to start thinking -- or do you have to start thinking ahead to that now or is it too early yet? Well we're certainly going to comment on it now.
There's a comment due from the industry and we'll comment on it between now and April.
Probably the biggest area of impact which is still the most uncertain is credit cards.
Credit cards take big reserves and it's just not clear what life of loan means on an open line of credit like that so a lot more work to be done.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And it's not affecting your reservant behavior right now? No.
No no.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Last thing for me.
Does -- the foreclosure settlement cost Andy that $50 million a quarter will that pretty much end in the first quarter and you'll be done with that right away? Yes.
Well we experienced about $50 million in quarters 3 and 4.
We may have a little bit of a tail on that in the first quarter $5 million to $10 million but then it will go away.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My first question was just a follow-up to John's.
In terms of the foreclosure review expense of $50 million is that directly going to impact the bottom line so we shouldn't expect the bank to reinvest it back into the franchise? Yes.
The answer -- it's Richard.
The answer is yes.
That is the cost that we had primarily to third-party overseers.
The entire mortgage servicing business has gotten more expensive because of the new rules some of which will get finalized in a week or 2 from the CFPB.
But under the consent order the rules have been very stringent and so we have many many more employees in run rate cost to managing the servicing portfolio than we used to.
Those do not change.
For the $50 million that Andy cited we're primarily the third-party overseers and that does end.
And yes we can reinvest that back in the company.
Research Division</strong> So we shouldn't necessarily just lop off $50 million from the second quarter run rate expense? You could that's a --I'm saying but there are other costs that we're not talking about which are still burdened in there on a comparative period from prior period.
It's a lot more expenses around the mortgaging servicing business than it used to be.
We're up to it.
We're making enough to offset it.
But I didn't want you to think that $50 million was all of the -- was the incremental cost of doing this business because it's gotten a lot more expensive over the last couple of years.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And just my second question is on capital return.
Your message on capital return is always dead consistent.
If we're just sort of looking at what could be different from this year versus last in the process of the CCAR what was interesting to me and some investors is in the adverse-case scenario is the Fed is now requiring to stress test against rate shocks which clearly impacts the securities portfolio.
I guess as you went through the process I understand the color you may give us may be limited but does the adverse-case scenario even matter as you thought about your application for this year? And is the message from the Fed as they think about accelerating capital return from the banks as credit risk diminishes do we have to start thinking about AOCI risk on a go-forward basis? So Erika certainly the adverse case matters.
But in our case anyway the severely adverse case was more of the binding constraint from the perspective of capital return.
So -- and that was the harsher economic downturn the lower GDP the higher unemployment.
That was a more material factor principally related to credit costs for our numbers.
And with regard to OCI as we've talked about we are keeping our own cushion of 50 basis points over and above what we project to be our CP buffer of 50 so we get to the 8%.
And that's to accommodate the fluctuations of volatility that occurs with OCI and that's why we keep that cushion.
Your next question comes from the line of Kenneth Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Ian Foley for Ken.
Just wanted to ask a couple of questions on the mortgage business.
Specifically if volume does start to fade next year when we look at expenses how much is fixed versus variable and how quickly can you kind of bring those expenses down if you do see a falloff? Ian I would say that the variable expense component of the mortgage business depending upon the type of production and where it's originated from would be anywhere between 25% and 40%.
We've been very careful not to build a church for Easter Sunday.
I mean we're not -- we're able to accommodate all of our volume today but we've got a pretty good variable capability of reducing quickly adding quickly.
And as you look at the future while it may be higher refis today we're building this bank to handle new purchases and then be a market leader in that area which is why we're spending so much care on high quality today because that will affect the reputation we have for the clients that we'll use as the new purchase money when rates start to go up and we start replacing the refi activity.
So we're going to overperform the service quality.
We're going to have more than enough people in all the places today but we can adjust very very quickly.
It's one of our best talents around here and you can well bet that we won't be caught with overhang if there's a change somewhere along the way.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my second question is more involved than the servicing side.
And I think with the refis people often overlook just kind of what it means for the MSR and revaluation.
I was just hoping you guys could comment on kind of how the hedging strategy has changed and if refi rates do decline what that could mean for just the servicing income stream in general.
We're fairly -- our mortgage team is very good at the hedging process here.
Our net hedge results this quarter was about a $29 million gain versus about $9 million last quarter and about the same level $30 million a year ago.
So we are very conservative in our approach and we do try to take into account -- we do take into account all the factors that you described.
Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Richard could you just comment on the QM what your general impressions were of the QM and whether you think there's going to be an impact to the QM on other retail lending? So my impressions are actually very positive.
I thought they did a nice job of what I'll call soft landing again to what otherwise was a risk of really muting a slow but assured recovery.
Not only is the 43% debt-to-income a fair assumption and a fair starting point but the very very slow transition they're going to have with the Freddie/Fannie rule standards and being able to imply those for quite some time it's -- I'd like to say it's not a non-issue but it's not a huge issue.
And I think they gave us a lot of time to manage that never mind we have the whole rest of 2013 to get it right.
So I think for the industry it's something more like 5% to 10% impact.
We would be in that same range.
And I believe that as we look over the course of time if I look at it in the cold light part of day if some of those rules had been around for the industry particularly the sub-prime and non-bank providers we actually would have had a better outcome and less of a problem.
So I actually think they were quite good.
What it means for the rest of the other loans I don't think it has an infectious impact yet.
I only say that because I haven't heard that as one of the next steps.
I think there's plenty of other things to work on with the CFPB particularly non-banks and other activities related to deposit gathering and service charges and things.
But Nancy I think undoubtedly it will start to take on non-mortgage activity things that are asset-based but are not necessarily in the same category of the higher risks of bringing down the world.
So probably over the next few years we'll see some -- the same attributes.
But I don't think that they are at all immediate and I don't think when they do come they'll be that bad.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question for you Andy or maybe for both of you.
There was an article in The Wall Street Journal a couple of days ago about the fact that the banks are not making public their Basel leverage ratios.
Could you just comment on that? And they inferred or implied that there was risk weighting asset kind of trickery going on.
Could you just give me your commentary on that? Sure.
In our case Nancy our risk-weighted asset number to total GAAP assets is about 88%.
So we don't have a big difference.
The differentials for a bank like us and our business model is just not that material.
And if you think about our leverage ratio on a -- it's not significant.
In fact it's higher on a Tier 1 number versus our Tier 1 common number so it isn't a material impact for our company.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Ketron with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I have a bigger-picture question.
If you look at revenue growth in 2012 compared to 2011 you guys put up some very nice revenue growth in light of the environment.
And as you look into 2013 with maybe slower loan growth maybe the risk of the mortgage weakens in the second half of this year which remains to be seen and you think about revenue growth in 2013 how do you think about that? What are the areas that you think you can achieve it? Do you expect it to actually slow compared to 2012? Yes.
I'll go first.
We do expect it to slow compared to 2012 because we're prudent and careful and I tell you that because I also promised you positive operating leverage for 2013 so that just means we're going to be watching our expenses.
And Greg if you follow the story for the last 5 or 6 years you and your peers have allowed us to be pretty aggressive in spending and catching up on our CapEx.
Some of our acquisitions and some of our just investments in the company have been pretty high and yet we've continued to keep our expense relationship to revenue quite good.
That's what we're going to continue to do.
But we're on the tail end of that area of investing so extensively and so the good news is this is a good year for us to keep our expenses more run-rate-related more in check from not having to play any kind of catch-up.
And it's going to be perfect because revenue is expected to grow a little bit less than last year still positive.
They'll both grow.
Revenue will grow expenses will grow by less.
We'll grow the balance sheet.
We'll have positive operating leverage; we'll make good net income.
But each will be muted from the year before.
And if by any chance things start to get better and the world warms up and we can benefit from that then the expenses are easily adjusted and we can be more aggressive in some of our investments inside the company more organic.
So we've got a pretty good ability to move those levers quickly but I want to make it easier to turn clearly.
We will grow revenue but we will just grow it at a pace that's commensurate with the kind of expenses that are needed to keep that in positive operations.
And I would also -- I would comment that we have a couple of businesses that are at the early stages of the growth curve: our commercial products group our high-grade bond business municipal underwriting our wealth management area all areas that I think will grow in an accelerated fashion in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I guess along those lines maybe things that we're not seeing that's coming through revenue growth.
Do you feel like the U.S.
Bancorp business model has even more leverage when we see the business conditions improve and we actually could see even more positive operating leverage generated as a result of that? We do yes.
Greg we do.
In fact one of my favorite lines around here is we might be doing really well in tough times but we're building the bank to be great in great times.
That's a real important distinction because we're able to handle the kind of muted environment.
But when things get good and they get good fast when that happens we want to be out in front.
The highest debt rating in the business the reputation we've been able to create over our service quality and some of these new businesses that have kind of rounded out the rest of the capabilities for this company are serving us really well right now.
But those are the things that were really meant I think the kind of profitability we want in good times.
So I'm quite optimistic about it.
We used to call it a window of opportunity where our high position compared to our peers the high quality of the company the balance sheet was serving us benefits.
That window has been opened longer than I thought it would and it's getting wider as time passes.
And I might close with our staff is better now at leveraging our strength.
They're more proud of the company.
They're more assured that the company is distinctively performing better in most categories and they take that story to the customer.
And they do a better job of developing better relationships and getting more business.
So I'm quite robust in my comments about what this will do for us when times start to get better.
We just need to get over the transom of the industry until the economy warms up again.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Hagerman with Stern Agee.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Just Andy going back to your comments in terms of reps and warranties the repurchase requests remaining relatively stable.
Just curious with the settlement now and basically capturing all the vintages and the improved dialogue with the GSEs is there a sense that -- I guess what I'm saying or suggesting is on a go-forward basis the requests are more in line with the production? Or alternatively why wouldn't we necessarily see more of a decline in terms of those requests relative to these settlements and the dialogue? Yes.
I think it's just a timing factor Todd.
So I don't expect a blip like we saw this last quarter like we saw last year.
As the vintages increase I do not expect that and it will work down over time.
But in the short term I think it'll just be relative relatively stable because it takes a fair bit of time for the requests to work their way through the process.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms -- like your provision have kind of varied over the course of the year.
Can you give us a sense of kind of where you find that kind of settling out relative to that request outlook? Yes.
The provision blipped a couple of quarters and the principal reason for that blip was the increase in the time frame that the GSEs were looking at.
So for example you saw a $16 million increase this quarter.
That was entirely due to that increase in vintage the '05 and '04.
So again absent that which I do not expect any more changes going forward I would expect that to moderate and go downward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on the mortgage side one of the things that's been a focal point -- everyone's kind of -- has a good outlook in terms of at least the first half of '13.
But I'm curious specifically for U.S.
Bancorp what is being done kind of on the front end as the companies look to ramp up the production side relative to that refi that at some point is going to tail off.
Your servicing income continues to grow fairly steadily but I'm just curious kind of what you're doing to prevent a more -- a significant decline in mortgage revenues on a go-forward basis particularly as refis slow.
Well this is Richard.
We continue to add people so we're actually flying into the face of the wind here by continuing to believe that until the refi business is assuredly slowing which we thought 2 years ago we thought a year ago and I actually don't think even this year will slow.
But if it did we can handle it for the earlier question.
But we're also actually putting more into it.
So until it isn't strong we're going to be stronger.
So we're putting more and more into that business Todd and building kind of market share value.
And as I mentioned we're also probably putting a little bit more in even than some of our peers because we want our service quality to be tough quality.
We want people to want to do business with us because they'll come back again in the future when they're looking for purchase as opposed to a refi.
We want to be a market share leader in both circumstances.
And I'll tell you what you already know but unless the refis have just absolutely hit some saturation which they haven't so far and nobody has ever figured out how many times people can refinance a house.
They seem to be able to do that endlessly.
But when that happens it's going to be probably as a result of rates starting to trip up.
And when rates start to move up there are other things in the company's balance sheet and income statement that actually will offset the loss of what would be mortgage momentum and then will turn it into a different spread on a different more purchase-related portfolio and we'll be getting benefits somewhere else.
So it may not be an exact moment in time but we actually see that to be a pretty good transition when that happens.
But more importantly we're adding more and more to our business and growing it right now while refis are strong and then able to turn that in a heartbeat if and when that moment comes that you've talked about.
Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Given what your comments about kind of revenue growth and operating efficiency and kind of slightly positioning the company for a better environment can you talk a little bit about what areas you'd likely want to reinvest the most to drive more growth? I mean where do you think you can be the most kind of competitive? So Andy teased it out a minute ago when we mentioned that we've got some business lines that are still in kind of their teenage years our capital markets some of our wholesale lines of business wealth management for sure.
And those investment curves are behind us Moshe but the benefits are still ahead of us.
And in fact in a couple of cases they've been actually net negative to bottom line in this course of getting them to where they are now.
So we've got some natural intracompany opportunities that will mature in another year.
It gives them the chance no matter what the environment is to get better and stronger.
The second thing is we're continuing to build into our technology in our infrastructure the mobile banking and mobile payments capability which you know is -- everybody has a little of that but that's one of our sweet spots.
If you think about U.S.
Bank a couple of years ago you liked us for a lot of reasons not the least of which is you like our payments business.
But you should expect us now is to make that payments business more than corporate more than government more than merchant and more now mobile payments for all consumers.
And by the recent acquisition of FSV the prepayment company and some of the other activities we've been doing in payments you should expect a lot more from us there a real leadership position.
That investment curve is probably in its middle stages but already parts of it are going to start driving some benefits.
And those are fee-based opportunities that don't exist today that we haven't yet been able to bring to the income statement.
So I'm quite optimistic about our own intracompany maturity and the things that we've invested in that will start coming to bear.
And that's why I said we'll do well even in tough times.
When times get really good all that stuff got kind of a trebling effect and it's all very positive.
Research Division</strong> Just one other quick follow-up and that is on a somewhat related topic.
In the past you've talked originally thinking to try to recapture the lost revenue from Durbin by pricing up your checking account product then wanting to be more competitive.
How do you see that kind of shaking out from a competitive standpoint the core retail banking offering product in your markets? Yes.
So we did 2 things there.
We promised you that we would still get to that 50% recovery.
But we told you we're not quite there and we're not there yet.
Two things have happened because we've given ourselves more time.
One is we're just growing a lot more net customers.
You guys don't suffer through us talking about net customers and going through that because it's a real hard number to measure and everybody can say it.
So I just don't waste our time on that.
But the fact is is that our numbers would belie in hindsight that we are growing the company.
We don't have a free checking product which is a good thing because we do have customers now that are here on purpose.
They don't have second and tertiary accounts that really don't make any money.
We've established a relationship on a package basis where we can add attributes and/or upsell them into something more reasonable but for which they know they're buying and for which they have value for.
And on top of that we've taken the same time on consumers and we've gotten really good at Small Business.
Rick Hartnack is the Head of Consumer Banking who's retiring next month.
He actually succeeded me in running Consumer Banking and Small Business.
The thing he did that I didn't do when I ran it was he took Small Business and put it on the map for our company and we are now a very capable and an industry-leading small business provider both checking accounts and loans and lines.
And Moshe that has been a huge benefit kind of under the watermark.
You can't see it under the surface but it's a huge driver for the company.
It is driving a big part of the closures some of that fee business is that we lost to Durbin or some of the CARD Act and things like that because now we just have more of those customers.
And they're buying stuff paying for it they're aware of it and they want it.
So I'm pretty excited about what that cause does to do which was get good at more things for more people.
But we're still not quite where we needed to be to recover all that fee.
We'll have to do it again over the course of time.
And I think mobile payment is going to -- to tie in my last question -- is going to be one of the things that will help us to derive a new revenue stream that doesn't exist today.
Our final question comes from the line of Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> How much of your residential originations were HARP in the fourth quarter? It was about 11% again.
It's been pretty stable.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would you expect an increase in volume due to the changes in reps and warrants provision rules that were implemented by the FHFA on January 1? Essentially no.
I mean...
We're not a big HARP company and so those are small nuances for us Kevin.
But our company based on the way we originated in the first place we just don't have a lot of our volume attributed to that.
So when you saw last year a lot of the volume in refis was HARP-related it was a good question to ask was when does that start to slow.
For us it won't matter in the first place.
It was never a big part and those new reps and warranties and things coming out are very de minimis for us and they're not going to change our forecast.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
You mentioned a major increase in the servicing costs due to deregulation.
Are there anything you could do or are there any mitigating factors that you can implement in order to lower those servicing costs on a go-forward basis? Yes.
There's -- the answer is of course.
And that comes in the form of getting better at it centralizing more of it automating more of it.
But a fair amount of it is a derivative of what started out as the settlement discussion with the big 5 mortgage services which we weren't a part of then the consent order.
And now what we're waiting for is what will be the final servicing rules that the CFPB owes everybody by January 21.
Whatever those will be I suspect they won't be any more onerous than the consent orders provided which requires us to do very very high-bar servicing.
So for instance as an example the thing called single point of contact if you were customer in a modified situation we have to assign you a person.
You get Andy Cecere.
But if Andy Cecere weren't available at any time for you then you have to know that Richard Davis will be there for you.
And Andy and Richard always have to be there 1 of the 2 of them and if perchance they're not then we have to make sure that Bill is there and that you know Bill is taking over.
And it's very very tedious right? So I suspect that might be an overreaction to a consent order process to make sure that we all get something right that wasn't at the level they wanted it.
So that's the kind of cost we're bearing today that weren't around a couple of years ago.
And is it worth it? It's a better servicing model I'm sure.
But I think the new rules will give us kind of a steady answer.
So 90 days from now on this call ask me again and we'll tell you looking back what the final rules look like.
I suspect they'll be more expensive than they were before rules.
I suspect for our company they might actually be less than they are today because we're trying to overperform in the consent order to make sure we can get out of it.
LLC Research Division</strong> So if you were to estimate the additional cost of to service a mortgage as it compares to what it was 2 years ago would you say it's approximately double what it was? Or do you....
No.
It's probably 25% to 50% higher.
So if we're double we're out of the business because there's not much margin.
But it's a new run rate that we've had in the company now for 6 quarters.
So for us it would only be upside if it were to be lesser than it is today.
And if it were the same then we're already bearing that burden and we can manage to it because the overall business is worthwhile.
But it's -- I don't expect it to get worse.
So the good news for us is I think we're at a high watermark and we look forward to I think some sustainable new results.
And that's why it will go back to consolidating and automating and getting the rules set.
Once we know it's permanent then we can lock down a final protocol.
And it's the back-end costs that have gotten more expensive.
And as the housing market improves we see fewer and fewer people with underwater mortgages.
So over time the volumes will go down over the next 2 to 3 years.
LLC Research Division</strong> But overall you would expect core servicing expenses to be roughly -- would you say 25% to 30% higher than that what they were on a normalized basis when delinquency levels were much lower? Kevin I won't give that number.
I'll tell you it's not 0 and it's not 100%.
I don't know what it is.
We really actually don't think of it that way because we don't think we're in a permanent circumstance.
So we're -- I can answer that question in 90 days when we figure out and look back on the new servicing rules.
It'll be higher than it used to be.
But it won't be inordinately too high and won't want to stay in the business.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
I'll hand the presentation back over to management for any further comments or closing remarks.
I just want to thank you all for giving us the support you've given us last year.
Much as I wish we had some huge banner headlines to give you I'm kind of glad we don't.
I also appreciate the fact that we try to tell you what we know when we know things.
Even -- when we have an opportunity for a public disclosure we'll tell you what we see.
We'll continue to refresh that in March when we get another chance to be in a public setting.
And we just -- we value transparency and consistency and predictability and we're going to continue to deliver that to you.
So thank you for a good year.
Great.
Thanks everyone for listening to our results.
And if you do have any follow-up questions please feel free to call myself or Sean O'Connor in Investor Relations.
So thanks and have a good day.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to U.S.
Bancorp's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon Eastern Daylight Time through Tuesday April 23 at 12 midnight Eastern Daylight Time.
I will now turn the conference call over to Judy Murphy Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Brooke and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorp's first quarter 2013 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Judy and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to review U.S.
Bank's first quarter results.
I'd like to begin with a few quarterly highlights on Page 3 of the presentation.
U.S.
Bank reported net income of $1.4 billion for the first quarter of 2013 or $0.73 per diluted common share.
Although a total net revenue of $4.9 billion was slightly lower than the same quarter of last year and the previous quarter due to a reduction in total expense we achieved positive operating leverage year-over-year and linked quarter.
Total average loans grew year-over-year by 5.8% and as expected 1% or 4% annualized linked quarter.
We experienced strong growth in total average deposits of 7.3% over the prior year and 0.5% over the fourth quarter of 2012.
Credit quality remained strong.
Total net charge-offs decreased by $35 million or 7.5% from the prior quarter while nonperforming assets declined at 9.9% linked quarter or 2.8% excluding covered assets.
We generated significant capital this quarter.
Our estimated Tier 1 common ratio under the most recent Basel III rules was 8.2% at March 31 with a Basel I Tier 1 common equity ratio of 9.1% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 11%.
We repurchased 17 million shares of common stock during the first quarter which along with our dividend resulted in a 69% return of earnings to our shareholders in the first quarter.
Slide 4 provides you with the trends in our industry-leading performance metrics.
Return on average assets in the first quarter was 1.65% and return on average common equity was 16%.
Our net interest margin and efficiency ratio are shown on the graph on the right-hand side of Slide 4.
This quarter's net interest margin of 3.48% was as expected 7 basis points lower than the prior quarter's rate of 3.55%.
Andy will discuss the margin in more detail in a few minutes.
Our efficiency ratio for the first quarter was 50.7% better than the prior year and the previous quarter.
We continue to manage our operating expenses effectively and in line with revenue trends.
We expect that this ratio will remain in the low-50s going forward as we continue to manage expenses in relation to revenue trends while continuing to invest in and grow our businesses.
Turning to Slide 5.
The company reported total net revenue in the first quarter of $4.9 billion a 1.1% decrease from the prior year and a 4.7% decrease from the previous quarter.
The decline in revenue year-over-year was largely driven by Mortgage Banking while the linked quarter variance reflected both a reduction in Mortgage Banking as well as normal first quarter seasonality within our business lines.
Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on Slide 6.
Average total loans outstanding increased by over $12 billion or 5.8% year-over-year and 1% linked quarter.
Overall excluding covered loans our run-off [ph]  portfolio average total loans grew by 8% year-over-year and 1.4% linked quarter.
Once again the increase in average loans outstanding was led by strong growth in average commercial loans which grew by 16.8% year-over-year and 2.3% over the prior quarter.
Total average Commercial Real Estate also increased over the prior quarters.
Residential real estate loans continue to show strong growth 19.2% over the same quarter of last year and 4.5% over the prior quarter.
Within the retail loan categories average credit card loan outstanding fell slightly as consumers paid down their balances and average home equity lines and loans continue to decline as paydowns more than offset new loan originations.
Auto loans and leases however posted good growth year-over-year.
We continue to originate and renew loans and lines for our customers.
New originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments totaled over $35 billion in the first quarter.
Total average revolving corporate and commercial commitments increased year-over-year by 11.9% and 1.7% on a linked quarter basis while utilization remained stable at approximately 25% basically where it's been for the past 5 quarters.
Total average deposits increased by $16.7 billion or 17.3% over the same quarter of last year and by $1.2 billion on a linked quarter basis with growth in low-cost savings deposits particularly strong on a linked quarter basis.
Turning to Slide 7 and credit quality.
Total net charge-offs in the first quarter decreased by $35 million or 7.5% from the fourth quarter of 2012 while nonperforming assets excluding covered assets decreased by $59 million or 2.8%.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding in the first quarter declined to 0.79% from 0.85% in the fourth quarter.
During the first quarter we released $30 million of reserves compared with $25 million in the fourth quarter and $90 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Given the mix and quality of our portfolio we expect net charge-offs to remain relatively stable in the second quarter while nonperforming assets will continue to trend lower.
Andy will now give you a few more details about our first quarter results.
Thanks Richard.
Slide 8 gives you a view of our first quarter 2013 results versus comparable time periods.
Our diluted EPS of $0.73 was 9% higher than the first quarter of 2012 and 1.4% higher than the prior quarter.
For comparison purposes recall that the fourth quarter 2012 results included an $80 million foreclosure-related settlement expense accrual that reduced EPS by $0.03.
The key drivers of the company's first quarter earnings are summarized on Slide 9.
The $90 million or 6.7% increase in net income year-over-year was the result of a decrease in expense and a lower provision for credit losses slightly offset by a reduction in net revenue.
Net interest income increased year-over-year by $19 million or 0.7%.
The favorable variance was largely driven by a $13.9 billion increase in average earning assets mostly offset by a decrease in net interest margin.
The 4.6% growth in average earning assets included increases in average total loans and loans held for sale as well as planned increases in the securities portfolio.
The net interest margin of 3.48% was 12 basis points lower than the same quarter of last year primarily due to lower-yielding investment securities and lower loan rates partially offset by lower rates on deposits and wholesale funding and a reduction in cash balances held at the Fed.
Noninterest income declined by 3.3% year-over-year primarily due to Mortgage Banking revenue reflecting lower origination and sales revenue partially offset by higher servicing revenue and favorable change in the addition to the mortgage reps and warranty repurchase reserve.
Also contributing to the decline in noninterest income year-over-year were lower equity investment gains retail products revenue primarily due to fewer cars coming off lease and commercial products revenue.
Offsetting these declines were increases in trust and investment management fees retail payments and merchant processing revenue.
Noninterest expense was lower year-over-year by $90 million or 3.5%.
The majority of this favorable variance is attributable to favorable variances in regulatory insurance and litigation items partially offset by higher compensation and benefits expense and an increase in tax credit investment costs net occupancy and technology expense.
Net income was higher on a linked quarter basis by $8 million or 0.6% as a result of an 8% decline in expense and a lower provision for credit losses partially offset by a 4.7% decrease in net revenue.
On a linked quarter basis net interest income was lower as growth in average earning assets of $1.8 billion was offset by a 7-basis-point decline in net interest margin and the impact of 2 fewer days.
The 7-basis-point decline in net interest margin was primarily due to lower loan and securities rates and seasonally lower loan fees.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest income was lower by $164 million or 7%.
This unfavorable variance was primarily the result of a decrease in Mortgage Banking revenue and seasonally lower payments and deposit service charges as well as commercial products revenue.
The variance in Mortgage Banking revenue largely reflected lower origination and sales revenue offset by favorable variances in the addition to reps and warranty repurchase reserve and mortgage servicing rights valuation.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest expense was lower by $216 million mainly due to the fourth quarter $80 million settlement expense accrual lower professional services expense due to the reaching of that settlement favorable variances in insurance and litigation items and seasonally lower operating expense offset by higher benefits including pension and the expense related to low income housing and other tax-advantaged projects.
Turning to Slide 10.
Our capital position remains strong and continues to grow.
Based on our assessment of the full impact of the current proposed rules for Basel III standardized approach we have estimated that our Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was 8.2% at March 31 versus 8.1% at December 31.
At 8.2% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement and above our targeted ratio of 8%.
In March we received the results of the 2013 Comprehensive Capital Assessment and Review the CCAR including the Federal Reserve's non-objection to our capital plan.
Subsequently we announced a new 1-year buyback authorization totaling $2.25 billion effective April 1.
And we expect to recommend to the Board of Directors that they approve an 18% increase in our common stock dividend in the second quarter.
These capital actions will allow us to maintain our goal of returning 60% to 80% of our earnings to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks in 2013.
In the first quarter we returned 69% of our earnings to shareholders including dividends and repurchase of 17 million shares of common stock.
Finally Slide 12 provides updated detail on the company's mortgage repurchase-related expense and the reserve for expected losses on repurchases and make-whole payments.
The addition to the reps and warranties repurchase reserve this quarter was $36 million lower than the fourth quarter of 2012.
Recall that we booked additional reserves in the fourth quarter to address the put-back risk of Freddie Mac loans originated in 2004 and 2005.
Our outstanding repurchase and make-whole request balance at March 31 was $66 million compared with $131 million at December 31.
I'll now talk -- turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Andy.
Turning to Slide 13 you will see the cover of our 2012 Annual Report "A Rich Heritage" and "A Strong Future." And today we're in Boise Idaho the site of our 2013 Annual Shareholders Meeting.
I'm looking forward to presenting our shareholders with a brief look at our past and a view into our future.
Idaho in fact is part of our company's rich heritage which began 150 years ago with the signing of our national bank charter in 1863.
The presentation will include the story of how we achieved the size and scale we are today and in particular what we accomplished in 2012 including record revenue record earnings and industry-leading performance metrics against the backdrop of a slowly recovering and uncertain environment.
Even more important however to all of our shareholders is that we have positioned U.S.
Bank for a strong future a future that includes continued investment in our well-diversified mix of businesses prudent risk management a focus on operating integrity and compliance strong capital and liquidity and superior returns for our shareholders.
We're looking forward to the future as we move into 2013 with our first quarter now complete and we remain focused as always on producing consistent predictable repeatable results for the benefit of our customers our employees our communities and our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Bill and I would now be happy to answer any questions from the audience.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Erika Penala with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Richard your comments on cautious -- your cautious loan growth commentary during the Citi Conference really resonated with the investor community.
So I was wondering if you could give us an update on your outlook for the balance of the year.
Thanks Erika.
Yes much as I wish it were more positive I think we just need to be realistic in this environment.
And while you'll recall that in quarter 4 we grew our linked quarter loans 1.4% we then suggested a month ago that while we wanted to be in the range of 1% to 1.5% for this most recent quarter we'd be on the low end and here we are at 1%.
My guidance for next quarter which is as far as I can see is somewhere between the 1% and 1.5% again.
If we get the seasonal lift that we expect and we normally see in the springtime then we'll in be the middle of that to the high end of that range.
If we see a continued cautious nature by our customers which we've now seen for the last few months then it might be on the low end of that range but it'll be somewhere in between.
So what I'm saying is it's not going to be robustly coming back on all cylinders and that makes sense to us because there continues to be a withholding by both consumers and businesses in this uncertain environment particularly now on the heels of both the higher FICA costs and what we all know to be some of the slow but eventual sequester impacts the higher gasoline costs and the lack of any other catalysts for the business community to jump on the need to take action any earlier now with the commitment of forward interest rates being low for so long.
So longer view second half of the year I would hope we start moving into the higher end of the 1% to 2% quarter -- linked quarter range.
But for now let's say we're going to be pretty set in that same kind of range bound [ph] 1% to 1.5% linked quarter until we see some catalyst.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And my follow-up question would be on the expense side.
Thank you so much for the color on looking for a low-50s efficiency ratio.
And -- but you also mentioned the word "flexible" in your prepared remarks.
If we fall into the lower end of the range on loan growth and clearly Mortgage Banking is a big question mark for the rest of the year is the main message here is that there is still flexibility remaining in terms of managing the dollar number to keep the efficiency ratio in the low-50s no matter what happens to the revenue side for the rest of the year? Yes for a couple of reasons the answer is yes.
I'm fairly comfortable that as you know we manage more to operating leverage than we do efficiency ratio.
And we've promised that as this year will be a harder year for revenue growth at least at the conservative manner in which we run the company likewise we're going to be conservative on our expense growth.
And as long as revenue grows faster than expenses you know that you have positive operating leverage and your efficiency ratio gets better.
So efficiency for us is a result not a goal but because of that I can assure you it will stay in the low-50s.
I don't see any reason for that to be any different than it has for the last many years.
I'll also add you'll recall that while we are moving through this consent order and have substantially less cost in compliance for that purpose we do see the cost of compliance and operating integrity going up but well within the range of the amount that we are now going to be able to redeploy.
So even on a linked quarter basis for a company like ours while I hated all the money we were spending on the consent order it now serves as a backdrop for us to use for some redeployment for what I know to be higher expenses in compliance and audit going forward.
So we have really no reason -- and if loan growth were to stay slow as you know because of our kind of 50-50 mix of spread income and fee income as long as the seasonality continues to happen along with our trusts and our payments businesses and some of the non-balance-sheet items I also have confidence we can stay in the low-50s as an outcome.
Your next question comes from Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I realize there's a lot of seasonality in fees quarter-to-quarter and year-over-year yet you highlighted some of the declines obviously in mortgage and private equity.
But I guess just generally speaking it felt like fees broadly were a little bit weaker year-over-year as we looked at the service charges the cash management corporate areas just some areas that I thought would be grinding higher.
I don't know if there's anything kind of unusual that just happened to all hit at once or is it just kind of sluggish client activity overall? Matt this is Andy.
So first you're right.
The first quarter is seasonally lower across a number of categories.
In addition to the seasonality I'd highlight 2 things.
One is in our corporate products -- corporate payments revenue we have about a 30% exposure to the U.S.
government with a high percentage of that related to the defense department.
And government spending is down approximately 15% to 30% depending upon the category.
So that is a driver of our -- principal driver of the lower year-over-year and a little lower linked quarter growth that you see in corporate payments.
So that's going to depend upon what the future is in terms of government spend but that is an unusual item that you see there.
The second category I bring up is our commercial product revenue.
We have particular strength in our high-grade bond underwriting.
That's doing very well and you're reading about the marketplace and how a lot of bond issues are occurring.
However the marketplace is also indicating that FX loan syndication and some of the more onetime fees are slowing down a bit because -- somewhat because of that high bond underwriting activity.
So those are 2 things in addition to seasonality that I would call out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just separately following up on the net interest income -- or sorry the loan growth outlook.
As we think about the NIM component from here any outlook comments on the net interest margin percent? Yes so I  -- we had indicated that we would be down 5% to 7% we were down 7%.
I will tell you my expectation was that is the most it will go down this year.
My expectation for the second quarter is closer to 4% to 6%.
Part of the reason for that is first quarter has seasonally lower loan fees.
And secondly the compression of what's coming on versus what's coming off is dissipating.
So you'll see continued improvement throughout the year and again second quarter 4% to 6%.
Research Division</strong> And then when you combine that with the low-single digit or low 1% loan growth do you hold net interest income stable or can you get a little growth out of that? Relatively stable to perhaps a little bit growth.
Your next question comes from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Andy quick follow-up on the net interest margin.
Your margin was very resilient for a lot of the low interest rate environment and the last couple of quarters you've had a little leakage down.
What's the dynamic there? Did you have some funding cost ability to push that down and that's starting to dissipate? Or can you just give us a little color there? Yes John.
So that is the reason.
In 2012 we had about $12 billion of debt that either matured and was not replaced or was replaced at a much lower cost.
That helped us particularly in the last half of 2012.
In 2013 we have a much lower number of debt coming due so we have less of that repricing that will help us.
However as I said sort of offsetting that is the difference between what's coming on and off particularly in the securities portfolio.
We'll continue to improve each quarter so that'll be an offset.
But that is the principal dynamic last year versus this year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just remind us of your positioning to higher interest rates and which interest rates matter most for you? We're asset-sensitive.
We continue to be asset-sensitive.
What you saw in the fourth quarter annual report is very similar to what you'll see in the first quarter Q.
So we are biased towards positive rates and the most important part in the curve for us is 3 to 5 years.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the credit side Richard I guess you -- do you envision being able to run at a below-average charge-off rate for a considerable amount of time here both you and the industry? As there hasn't been much lending and housing's improving do you see credit kind of running below average for a while? I do and I think we've predicted that a year ago that we would all fall below our over-the-term rates and it would take years to come back.
I mean it's just the way the math works.
The temptation is for certain companies to decide that now is the time to take maybe a higher level of risk because: a it won't show up for a while; and b to stretch [ph] for that asset growth is pretty high.
And that temptation is present in our company but it isn't going to happen.
So the fact is is that we're going to continue to be prudent and we'll take our hits if you guys don't like the loan growth.
But we're not going to put on structurally a deficit asset onto our books for the fear of them being a problem in many years forward.
We're just not going to do that.
So you'll see us be prudent and we're not going to -- we're not in the leveraged lending business to speak of so we're not enjoying that particular run-up right now.
We're not going to get into things like enhanced lease residuals or get into some of the noninterest-related activities.
But as I always say we'll continue to fight for our own customers and continue to build some growth in market share by using our pricing advantage which you all know we have a pretty substantial one which we can give a part of it back to our best customers and new customers.
I'll also remind that our commitments grew almost 12% year-over-year and annualized linked quarter 7%.
And so we're continuing to enjoy bringing a lot of new customers and they're still sitting at that 25% usage level.
But once and when they start using it we would hope that whoever has the most customers on their balance sheet with open lines of credit will be the one that does the best and we're counting on being one of those.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And while it does sound like you'll run below average or over the cycle you don't see much more improvement from this kind of 79-basis-point level.
Do you think you'll just kind of hold somewhere in there? Yes I think we fell through the 70s and we stay in there.
And I thought -- 6 months ago we fell to the low-80s so it got better faster and probably more sustainably than we thought which is why you saw some of our actions.
But just because of our large credit card portfolio and the mix of business it shouldn't get much lower than that or we're -- then we really left too much on the table.
Bill do you want to..
Yes yes.
This is Bill.
Okay I mean the area that still has room for improvement is anything related to the residential mortgage so residential mortgage home equity still high.
And over the next year or 2 depending on housing prices that should continue to come down.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Bill it looked like the home equity NPLs and charge-offs ticked up a little bit in the first quarter.
Is that a seasonality issue? Yes they will come down again in the second quarter and should be down for the balance of the year.
Your next question comes from Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> So on the Mortgage Banking side a lot of people felt that we've been writing it off for the rest of the year.
What's your views for the gain on sale and volumes throughout the year? So Paul I'm going to give you -- I don't know the whole year.
I'll give you what I can see in the second quarter.
And so the first quarter our fees were down about 15.5% and that's principally because apps were down.
We book about 80% of our revenue at app and the remainder at close.
Apps were down about 20% and gain on sale margins were down 10 15 basis points and the offset was positive servicing revenue and the gain on sale -- or excuse me the servicing hedge.
So those are the gives and takes.
What we look -- as we look into the second quarter we believe mortgage revenue will grow and we believe the application volumes what we've seen thus far will increase.
So we think that this first quarter was a little bit seasonal a little bit impacted by the blip in rates that occurred in late February.
We're starting to see some strength there so we expect an increase in mortgage revenue Q2.
And Paul we're sticking with mortgage.
We like it and we do it well.
We think as I said before that there will be a purchase money future out there and we want to have that same market share position if not greater with purchase money.
So we continue to prioritize our new customers and make sure that their servicing and their -- our performance on their onboarding is exceptional so that they'll be pleased.
A refi is also important but it doesn't have the same time parameters attached to it because you don't have another party involved.
And we're going to continue to grow this business and do what we can to improve the mix of where the originations come from more retail if we can.
But at the same time we have a very good variability on our expense control so if things were to continue to fall and be less than we expect we can adjust to that very quickly probably within 30 to 60 days based on the way we staff and the way we've set up our occupancy costs [ph].
So we're able to flex with it but we like it and we're going to plan on it continue to be strong.
Research Division</strong> And correct me if I'm wrong but I don't think you have a lot of HARP-eligible loans.
I mean what type of HARP production you're doing right now? About 11% is the HARP for us.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wondered if you could just expand on the mortgage side.
Can you talk about how your mix of originations has changed? And any market share dynamic changes as you -- as Richard as you talk about that being prepared for purchase market? Yes so first of all from an origination standpoint if we think about production about 72% of the production is refinancing.
Only about 62% of the applications however are refinancing.
So again that increase in rates that occurred did impact apps and refinancings did come down in the first quarter.
We're starting to see it shift back to more of that 70-30 refinancing.
And again we expect strength in the application volume into quarter 2.
Given -- we don't have the full market data yet but we continue to expect that we'll be either stable or slightly increasing in market share.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
My second question I wanted to ask you about noninterest-bearing deposits did decline on average a decent amount.
And I just wanted to ask you to flesh that out a little bit.
How much of that was seasonal? How much of it is customers behaving differently? And any changes with regards to even customers starting to potentially use some of their deposits instead of borrowing? Yes I think a factor there Ken was the elimination of tax.
So what we saw at the end of the year was a shift perhaps of about $6 billion out of noninterest-bearing which at -- until year-end had unlimited insurance into a more interest-bearing category.
So I think customers thought about it and said "I'm going to go after a few basis points since I don't have unlimited insurance." So I think that's the phenomenon that we saw.
Ken you make a great point.
As I've often said it's a canary in the mine.
The first good news for all this industry is the deposits in total moved down because people are using them then they'll use the lines of credits that they have open to buy and they're paying for and then eventually they'll get more loans.
This is not that.
This is not that first mover where we're seeing total deposits moving down as a result of customers using it for other things particularly for growth.
They're really withholding.
They continue to be cautious and they're just building up the balance sheet.
No matter where they placed it they're just kind of moving it about to seek a little higher yield.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Richard on that point this should be my last question just can you just  talk us through -- when you are talking to customers we've continued to hear about this delay and cautiousness.
What are customers looking for to make that change in their minds? So everyone is very flush with cash.
Companies are strong from a financial perspective.
We're seeing that in credit.
But so we continue to hear about delay delay delay.
What are customers waiting for? Yes that's a great question.
And it has a lot of answers but mine would be that it is particularly the lack of a catalyst perhaps more than it is the uncertainty.
Even I'm tired of talking about uncertainty without a very good definition.
We could tie it last year to fiscal cliff.
We could tie it last quarter to the pending sequester.
We can try to say it's going to be the national debt.
It's probably not any of those anymore.
There's no reason to take a bite right now at the apple and invest in something that will cost you more with the uncertainty of not knowing whether or not there's going to be a customer base for you.
So what I would say to you Ken is you've got the interest rates being decidedly low for a long time so there's no catalyst for a company to rush to make a decision because rates are eventually going to move up.
They probably should be thinking that way but based on the calculus and what the Fed has done by tying it to unemployment everyone can see that it's not imminent.
So absent that and absent a good deal where you see the M&amp;A market still has some life to it most companies are going to continue to just do what they do well stick to their knitting be very cautious and be proud of the fact that they're still being profitable.
And they're going to wait for a catalyst which I think will be interest rates eventually starting to move up and people taking advantage of that and/or the consumer getting much stronger starting to seek more purchase consumer products and services and then the companies starting to meet that demand.
None of that's present today.
It's not horrible.
It's slow recovery it's torturously slow but there's no catalyst to jump on something earlier than you need to.
Your next question comes from Brian Foran with Autonomous.
I wonder if I can follow up on this point you made about it's tempting at this point in the cycle to stretch for growth and maybe people getting to mid and even late cycle underwriting standards in certain products.
You referenced leveraged lending is one.
Are there other parts of the market that particularly concern you? And maybe if I could specifically hone in on auto a little bit since you have some slides on it in the back of the deck.
Yes I'm going to have Bill answer the hard one.
I'll take auto because that's very timely.
We're one of the larger -- we're the seventh largest auto lender so it's meaningful 2.3% market share.
But we're also one of the larger auto lessors.
And we've been in that business for as many years as auto leasing has been around so we're good at it.
It has a lot of other attributes to it like end of term used market sales values all those kinds of things.
And it would be -- one of the opportunities you would have is to enhance your residual value.
And so if you're going to get a loan from Bank X and they're going to say after a 3-year term your value is going to be x.
And you will get it from us and we say after a 3-year term your value is going to be let's say lower then you're going to have a higher payment with our company because we're going to have you take a larger spread.
When the car comes back in 3 4 5 years that's when we have to meet our maker and decide whether or not we expected the value to be higher or lower and then take an adjustment well outside of the interest income that would have been derived.
So as an example we're just -- we've done this business long enough we're not going to do something any more than we would take a structural interest -- a structural -- a credit risk on a customer hoping that they're going to get better when we don't see the evidence.
And so autos has a leasing issue that's probably more germane.
Let's pause for a minute though and also look at what happened with the CFPB last week as they're starting to ring-fence the discretion at the pricing level in the auto sales rooms and you know that the banks are now going to be held accountable for disparate lending behaviors by auto dealers all through the country as it relates to the kind of upcharges they might provide a customer or add-on products they might deliver.
So that's also going to be well worth watching in the next 90 days to see what the banks are going to do.
We immediately responded by ring-fencing the amount of latitude we give our dealers.
We'll probably lose a little market share in the beginning but we know that's the endpoint so we wanted to adjust quickly.
And I think you're going to find that this starts moving toward a much more probably predictable pricing scheme in auto dealers across the country and probably margin compression and that may well end up becoming an issue for affordability as the dealers want to take on some of that profit back in another manner.
So auto lending is really in flux given what just happened.
But germane to your question we're simply not going to enhance residuals or take the risk outside of what would otherwise be credit structure.
So Bill for the other topics? Yes I think the other category would be commercial real estate.
Historically banks have liked commercial real estate because it's actually a pretty easy area to generate instant outstanding.
There's always a developer with a project and seeking money.
So that's an area that over the years has been subject to too much money going into too many projects.
The way we manage that is we start with our customers.
And the first thing we do is really underwrite understand our customer.
It's common that we do not necessarily do every project for our customer base.
We look at the ones that we like.
It's been a successful strategy for us for decades.
So the commercial real estate is the other area.
I wonder as a follow-up if I could almost ask the opposite question.
I mean you've been pretty good at being countercyclical and maybe extending into products when others are still afraid to do them.
And are there any opportunities that are still out there like that? And the specific one I guess I'm getting at is in residential mortgage.
Alt-A has become maybe a dirty word but at the same time the whole market's doing 760 average FICOs.
You cite yours at 765 with a weighted average LTV of 64%.
Is there an opportunity to do some kind of prime minus business? And is this a good point in the cycle to be thinking about that? I'd say less than -- a little different answer than the prime minus.
I mean we've held a lot of our underwriting fairly steady there and we have the capability to do home equity up to 90% loan-to-value.
We haven't changed that in several years.
The issue being a lot of people are just not taking advantage of that getting back to Richard's comment about sentiment so it's available.
We use it in some of our piggyback loans.
But the volumes are just not that great.
And I think it's less us changing our standards and more the market eventually coming back to them as people get more confidence.
Your next question comes from Keith Murray with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just ask you a question -- you're talking about loan growth.
Are you seeing the ability to take share? And which particular loan categories are you seeing it? This is Richard.
Small business for sure.
Five years ago we started a trip to become a really high-quality small business originator and we won -- we did it through our branch managers.
And you're welcome to call any of them all 3 100 of them.
It's -- their job is to be a community leader and know that whole neighborhood like it was a small little town and part of that goes along with being the bank for the small business owners in and around that location.
So we've been taking market share.
That continues to be one of our strongest growth both in what you'd call traditional small business as well as SBA lending.
We're the second largest SBA lender at national level at this point as well.
So we see a lot of value in being good at that and it is a real execution game.
It's not so much just pricing and product it's knowing your customer and giving them what they need.
The other thing that I would say that we're continuing to focus on in terms of market share grab would be second -- first-position second mortgages.
We've been very very successful at that.
It's -- for a lot of people it's a way to get into the equity without having to go through the typical steps you would have to go for a first-position traditional mortgage.
They're very high-quality customers.
They like the product.
They like the access and particularly they don't want to do another credit card.
They still feel comfortable using the equity in their home and those have been 2 really growth businesses for us.
Bill did I miss...
Yes.
Well I think the other big area is really our corporate bank and especially their inroads into the investment-grade space whether that's through commitments and taking joint lead or lead positions with a number of our clients.
And with that comes the investment-grade underwriting that we established in Charlotte.
So I'd say that's another area that's come a long way in the last...
Yes 4 years ago 4 years ago Keith we didn't really even have that and now we're leading transactions.
And what comes with that too Bill is the fee business which is part of the quid pro quo.
So yes that would be another good place.
So we feel we've got a lot of room and space for market share growth in places we're still getting better at.
But I think we also have the advantage of being ahead some of the curves on that and we're going to play it out.
Research Division</strong>.
And then on the payment side you've mentioned the government spending piece of it having an impact.
But what's your growth outlook for that business? A lot of clients ask the question.
It looks like growth has slowed there.
Just what's your view on this space? So it's -- let me put it by piece.
So the merchant growth is going to be a bit of a function of same-store sales growth which will range somewhere between 3% and 5% we expect for the rest of the year.
We'll grow a little bit above that because we're adding new customers but same-store sales drives that.
On the card side it's going to be consumer spend and that -- what we're seeing is spending relatively stable but the paydown of the loans continues to increase.
In other words revolve rate is such that people are paying down their outstanding debt so that's what's impacting outstandings.
And then on the corporate card side as we said we have a fair exposure to the government and T&amp;E spend both of which are weak for the reasons that Richard already has gone through.
So purchasing the traditional purchasing is stronger the T&amp;E and government is a little weaker so that will depend again on the sentiment on a go-forward basis.
And Keith I'll add one of our hidden benefits and it is hidden because it's still growing is this international growth in our merchant acquiring.
You've heard that we closed a deal with Santander last week.
We've got this continuing growth in this early stage kind of nascent partnership with Citi down in Brazil.
I was in Mexico City just a couple of weeks ago where we have 400 employees and we've been working on partnerships with some of the largest merchants in Mexico.
And so these are businesses that are fairly young a few years old but they're the kind that have the great growth curve.
So they're moving from red to pink to gray to black in terms of bottom line and they've got great trajectories of growth.
And that's probably something you'll hear about in future quarters which isn't present in today's run rate.
Your next question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions follow-ups.
One you mentioned earlier the mortgage origination revenues 80% at app 20% at close.
Is there -- what drives that difference? Is it a function of the type of loan that you're originating? No you principally book the gain at lock and you book some of the miscellaneous fees at close.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for your budget when you're looking out 1 and 2 years what kind of interest rate environment are you basing that on? The budget that we planned under is very similar to the CCAR base case budget Betsy which is a basically low rate environment for the next couple of years at the low end with some increase at the longer end towards the end of this year into next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is it fair to say it's in line with what the FOMC is suggesting they're going to do with rates or not? Yes it's very close to the Blue Chip consensus.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on payments space so obviously there's a lot going on in the payments industry right now.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on how you're thinking about positioning USB longer term specifically around some of the payment strategies in the U.S.
You know that JPM and Visa have signed into a unique partnership.
Is there anything that -- in that make -- would make sense for USB? Obviously you've got your own merchant acquirer so I wanted to see what your thoughts are there.
And then separately in non-U.S.
you've been increasing your footprint pretty significantly in the merchant acquiring.
Is there any more that you could do there? And then lastly on the Internet space what kind of options do you have to increase your share of wallet? Great.
This is Richard.
I was going to say payments can now mask as either cards or mobile banking right? So we'll take those separately.
On the traditional payment space we too have relationships with partners that we just are working on.
And we don't necessarily announce them so you can read between those lines.
By the way it's not exclusive what you mentioned with the other banks.
So we are in R&amp;D mode in a significant way with all types of ways to use our acquiring partnership with merchants and in some cases directly to consumer a la Square and some of those things that you've read about.
So we're not left out of anything.
Nothing has come across our desk that we wish we had been a part of and we're just more likely to announce it once it's been tested and out as opposed to the fact that we're going to test it.
So just trust us we have a different cycle in which we announce that.
As it relates to international once we get this beachhead down in Brazil there's a lot of good growth in South America and as our reputation builds like I believe it will as a partner with Citi where they have a great deal of relationship we'd expect to see us moving through South America rather like we did moving from west to east across best -- Pan-Europe and then eventually further along perhaps down into the Pacific Rim.
We're more careful in Asia Pacific because we're not exactly sure of the politics in some of those environments.
But like anywhere else our entire story has always been built on the partnership of another bank that's local to that market and we work with them to become their preferred merchant provider.
It's usually a rent-to-own kind of a relationship and we bring our international platform that we've built years ago and bring it to any country and flip it on and we start doing business.
So there's really very few parts of the world I would tell you we're not interested in but we're going to be careful because of the politics that go along with doing business in countries that we may not have the experience and the partner is going to be more important probably than the country itself.
And then as it relates to just mobile payments we're spending an inordinate amount of time and energy on that as well both keeping ourselves open for all channel options and for all partner options which in many cases are mobile providers and some of the less-known brands that are being built in garages across the country.
So we're spending an inordinate amount of time on that.
And you'll see some of our M&amp;A will very likely be the continuation of traditional merchant acquiring but I will bet you're going to see some purchases of some less-known capabilities and technologies as it relates to the channel of moving money in nontraditional ways particularly through mobile.
So more of that will come but you'll hear about it in our case after it's working not the announcement of the idea.
Research Division</strong> And then on the mobile side that would be something that you could then provide to other financial institutions that you are running their payments business for? Excellent point.
So we will -- as a correspondent bank is to smaller banks we've been that in the merchant acquiring space forever where many of these regional banks smaller banks use us to be their merchant acquirer under private label.
We will do exactly the same thing with mobile technology.
We'll build it we'll brand it we'll white-label it we'll sell it to them and they can have the benefit.
We'll also get the markup.
Your next question comes from Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I hear what you say about consumer confidence and people not wanting to lever up.
But I guess I always kind of viewed that loan growth and especially consumer loan growth kind of should go with nominal GDP.
And you see auto sales up 40% off the bottom.
And while you were speaking housing starts hit the tape.
It was over 1 million units for the first time in a couple of years and 2x off what it was on the bottom.
And you think about all the furniture and rugs and all this stuff that goes with housing starts.
And just how can it not translate into loan growth? And I'm wondering is it purely consumer behavior or is it some of the new strictures that are on you.
Is it like the inability to raise card limits and so on? I just -- how does all this other activity this   [indiscernible] activity not translate into loans? Chris those are all good questions and we consider them all the time too.
First of all let's talk about auto loans.
Auto loans are probably the squeeze play between the lack of equity in homes and the lack of people's willingness to extend their unsecured credit card any further.
So it used to be home equity would mask a great deal of the auto purchasing and even credit cards would end up allowing people to feel more comfortable that they had other alternatives to pull on.
People are paying down their credit card more than they're using it and people's equity while probably starting to warm up hasn't been that good that long for them to be comfortable.
So it makes sense to me that autos are probably the single and exclusive space of strength in the consumer side.
That's how I've put it into my head at least.
But as it relates to kind of the next steps you've got the consumer is -- like a small business like a large corporation they've figured out that they can be better with their budgets than they thought they could.
They can find out they can live on less than they thought they could.
And they do not want to get -- once burnt twice shy.
And so the behaviors are reasonable but they're more emotional than they are practical or financial and I think this will eventually recover as people feel more comfortable.
They now know what their cost is going to be in their paycheck every 2 weeks now that FICA has been changed.
They're probably getting a better sense of what's going to happen in terms of the cost of gasoline as we move into the summer months and they start looking whether they've got money for a vacation.
This is the perfect time of the year where we're in a flux to figure out where things are going to settle.
And in our company April and May pretty much tell us the rest of the year.
We don't trust the first quarter for a lot of reasons.
I don't go -- have to go much past May to know how the year is going to go but we're right on the heels of figuring out what the consumer behavior will be.
And I'll tell you it's probably going to be cautious because for the same reasons I mentioned for corporate there's no catalyst but for to be careful and protect yourself given the uncertainty of what things could happen.
Research Division</strong> So your view is it's purely behavioral it's not the new regulations and structure? Yes thank you.
For our company it's not the latter.
We are not bound by capital by regulators by any enforcement actions.
We're simply doing the business we think is safe sound and repeatable and so far that's been aligned with what the regulators would expect.
Yes.
And I'll also point out the -- I mean the housing starts statistic is heavily weighted now with multifamily starts so the single family I see is actually down.
And so when you talk about consumer sentiment I mean it's yes you build an apartment building you need carpet but what you're talking about is this consumer going out and buying a new home and refurnishing and et cetera and that's a different behavior.
And that's still fairly tepid.
Your next question comes from Dan Werner with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if -- I got in the call late.
With regard to the allowance of loan losses and given that you're improving asset quality and even provisioning slightly less than what you're charging off where do you see the loan loss reserve long term? Well I'm not going to comment long term but...
Research Division</strong> Or at least for the rest of the year.
That's still very...
That's forever.
We usually go a quarter at a time.
But in general terms there's still a little more room for improvement in the credit profile.
There's still wholesales almost back to what I'd call prerecession levels.
But there's still a few things to work out so that will give us a little more relief on the allowance.
But basically it's similar to what it's been doing.
Your next question comes from Todd Hagerman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Andy a couple of questions just some follow-up.
First in terms of kind of you were mentioning on the spread outlook kind of stable to maybe some growth.
What I'm curious about is how we should think about the earning asset mix with the balance sheet.
Obviously it's been growing.
And one of the things that stands out is really the growth in mortgage held on balance sheet and this quarter we saw a bit of a drop-off in terms of held for sale.
So I'm just wondering how to think about kind of the ongoing mortgage retained on balance sheet how you think about perhaps the fee income versus the spread component in conjunction with your comments on the spread.
Right.
So there are a few questions in there.
First let me make it clear that qualifying mortgages Freddie Fannie we are not holding in our balance sheet other than held for sale so we are selling those.
What you're seeing in terms of mortgage traditional loans on the balance sheet is first our Smart Refinance product which is that branch-based mortgage originated high-quality customer that is not a Freddie Fannie product.
That's what you're seeing growing and we would expect continued growth there for the reasons we've talked about.
In terms of I want to be also clear net interest income we expect to be relatively stable to some growth.
We do still see some expectation for that 4- to 6-basis-point decline more than [ph]  offset by the earning asset growth.
And finally I would say that I expect loan and securities growth to sort of be in sync.
So we've stopped in terms of the build on the securities portfolio and it'll grow in conjunction with overall balance sheet growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
And then just switching gears a little bit in terms of again like the mortgage outlook if you will but in particular on the reps and warranties.
You guys had a nice drop-off this quarter in terms of the associated costs on the repurchase risk as well as on the legal side as well.
I was just wondering how we should think about the provisions if you will on a go-forward basis.
Is that more in sync with current production levels? Are we going to see more of a drop-off and decline in the reserve? Or how should we think about that? Right.
So as you recall in the fourth quarter we increased our reserve principally due to the look-back period on Freddie Mac going back a couple of more years.
So that was unusually high.
The first quarter may be a little bit low because of timing and some of the work-through of that additional look-back period.
But I do expect that to sort of be stable to down in future quarters.
So I think we've reached the peak there in terms of the addition to reserve and we'll start to see it come down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then similarly I don't know if the question was addressed before but just in terms of litigation.
Again relative to some of your bigger peers the legal while it's difficult to predict if you will it seems like we might be in a better or kind of more stable run rate if you will in terms of how we think about the legal going forward in terms of in your existing accruals.
There is no unusual legal accruals in the first quarter.
As you recall the fourth quarter had the $80 million but first quarter was relatively straightforward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So first quarter looks like more of like consistent in terms of the outlook? Nothing unusual from a litigation reserve standpoint.
Your next question comes from Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> 15% markup in the MSR this quarter and the MSR looks like it's valued at about 7.7% of total Tier 1 common equity per Basel III.
Could you just talk about how you expect to manage that if the MSR continues to mark up if we have an increase in rates here? Yes so you're talking about the potential impact to reduction in capital? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes so we have plenty of room there.
So part of the reason for the increase in the value was the increase in rates that we talked about.
But from an overall standpoint we could almost double our securities port -- or MSR book and still not have the haircut from a Basel III perspective.
So we're not bound by that.
We continue to expect to grow the mortgage business as we talked about.
And again as we talked about we expect that to grow more in the second quarter relative to the first quarter because of the seasonality but we're not bound by MSR in capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is part of that due to deferred tax liabilities associated with MSR? A lot of -- there's a lot of different calculations but that is not a binding constraint right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also you had -- 11% of your loans were HARP which is similar to what you had in the last couple of quarters.
Was the reason why the HARP mix continues to stay elevated due to you're doing cross-servicer refis? Or is it just your own book where you're doing HARP loans? It's primarily our own book.
Your next question comes from Chris Mutascio with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Andy I want to make sure I wrote down a couple of things right.
Did you say the gain on sale was down only 15 basis points? Because I'm coming out with a much bigger hit to the gain on sale margin this quarter.
Yes and the reason for that -- and I know Chris where you're coming from.
So the reason for that is you calculated it on production which is what we're putting in our reports.
And I'm doing it on net apps after fallout expectation.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just make sure...
And our apps -- right so production while it looks sort of flattish apps are down closer to about 20%.
So if you go through the math on that you'll see the gain on sale margins down 10 or 20 basis points.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that explains the difference from what I was doing.
Staying with mortgage for a quick second.
You mentioned that 2Q could be up over for -- over 1Q in terms of Mortgage Banking income.
There's kind of 4 puts and takes in mortgage.
There's production volume your gain on sale margin I guess servicing and your rep and warranty expense.
Of those 4 little subsets which one is going to be better than first quarter in order to drive an upward pressure in Mortgage Banking first to second? Application volume.
The others might be better too but the application volume is going to be the key driver.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that's just because of seasonality.
Principally seasonality and principally because of that slowdown of the curve with the increasing rates in the middle of the first quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you're pretty confident in this? I tell you what I know.
We only say what we know.
Your next question comes from Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a capital question for you Richard.
I mean the big discussion if you want to put it that way today is the proper level of capital for the systemic banks and this whole Brown-Vitter and is it going to be 10%? Is it going to be 15% whatever? I think we're all sort of coming to the conclusion that the largest banks are probably going to have to have more capital even than Basel dictates.
So do you see this as a competitive advantage for you? Or do you think that these demands for higher capital will then trickle down to the next tier of large banks in which you and a number of the other large regionals reside? Nancy good question.
First of all we're just a little tiny bank from Bloomington [ph].
I want to make sure you all know that.
I'm convinced that there will be a ratability here.
There will be a sliding scale.
Even if it doesn't look like it at first if you recall the G-SIFI or G-SIB requirements we were the first bank not to be given one but we were uncomfortable to have 0 as a buffer in our minimum capital charge.
We just know it couldn't be 0 but we were not given a number so we picked 50 basis points.
I think that this whole "too big to fail" issue has been -- we have failed as an industry to provide confidence to the people who worry the most that we really have ring-fenced this problem by 6 ways to Sunday.
And as the bank that might otherwise look like an advantaged bank because we're not typically in that first conversation we're going to be affected by it in some manner as well.
And I believe for the good of this country we need to have banks larger than us and we need to have banks smaller than us.
But we are preparing to be part of something and we think we'll get our pro rata share.
I don't think it'll be excessive but I don't think it'll be advantageous either.
I think we'll get our fair measure of whatever the rule is here to try to make banks safer.
And if capital's a measure so be it.
If it's loan losses it might be that.
It might be a liquidity ratio.
It could be all kinds of things.
I'm worried that "too big to fail" is just introducing the idea that we need so many different ways to protect the banks that we'll become so risk-free that we'll end up losing our benefits to those of you who invest in us.
So that's a bigger worry but I think we will get whatever is fair and assigned to us based on our size and our complexity.
I don't see it as an advantage or a disadvantage.
I think the whole thing though is a disappointment because we should do a better job of convincing people who are worried that we really have this ring-fenced.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you think that the concept of risk-weighted assets is going to still be with us? Or are we going to go back to just assets? Nancy this is Andy.
I think we'll still have risk-weighted assets and maybe a tangible ratio will come into play in addition.
One of the things I want to highlight in our bank our risk-weighted asset Basel III to our total GAAP asset is about 87%.
So we're not -- we don't have a huge discount on the risk weightings that you're reading about in some others.
So it may come into play but it won't be a big deal for us.
Our final question comes from Moshe Orenbuch with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Back on the payments.
I guess looking at least through the first 2 months of the year Visa had had -- had kind of talked about their volume in U.S.
credit.
And your consumer business seems to be somewhat slower.
I know you mentioned T&amp;E being somewhat slower but are there any other things going on? And kind of got a follow-up on the partnership thing that you had mentioned.
Moshe on the merchant side our portfolio is heavily weighted toward resorts airlines hoteliers not retail.
And those are areas that are typically very slow in first quarter they always are.
And they're even slower right now based on the T&amp;E spend of some of the corporations.
So that's why we might be slightly disparate because we're not heavy -- as heavy on retail as the averages you would hear from MasterCard or Visa.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned kind of talking to Visa about potential partnerships but waiting until they're a little more clearly defined.
What's your view as to what that could accomplish? Well I won't talk to any one specific deal but the goal that everyone's trying to figure out is who's going to carve out what space as it relates to the interlopers that are not financial institutions in moving money for people in nontraditional ways.
I should write that down because that was a long sentence.
But the fact of the matter is that's what we're trying to do.
When you're a merchant acquirer you're the only group that has a shot at it.
And if you blow it then you're going to have an interloper come in and take a position that we've otherwise had as one of the people -- trusted parties in a transaction between consumers and merchants so that's really where this is at for us.
That's why I tell you we're dealing with many partners we're dancing with a lot of different folks.
We can do all kinds of different dances if we need to but we're not leaving ourselves out of the conversation.
We're in virtually every one to decide what we think is the surviving technology or the surviving partner or the surviving customer behavior and it's changing pretty quickly.
So all you should know from us is that we're not waiting and going to be left standing by ourselves.
We're out trying all kinds of different things.
I just think it's a more prudent approach to deliver on things and show you even pilots before we announce partnerships.
You can just trust me on this call.
We're partnering with everybody you'd want us to to make sure we're not leaving out the advantage that accrues to a 30-year merchant acquirer who's already in this space and does it very well and everybody wants to be a partner with.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
One last follow-up and that is you did mention M&amp;A.
And it's interesting because after a couple of years in which Visa MasterCard American Express have been making a lot of acquisitions and there'd been a lot of acquisition in this space it kind of died out.
Could you talk a little bit about what you might be thinking about in terms of relative size of transactions? Because you sounded like there's stuff going on.
Yes yes.
It wouldn't be very big.
I think I tried to mention it would be names you haven't heard of and people who put it together in a garage 2 years ago.
It's a technology intellectual property we'd like to buy.
We're big enough that we can bring it in-house and we can manage things and do them ourselves.
But kind of a nascent technology that we think starts to work is better brought in-house.
We can then own it probably bring them in with us and have them help us to derive some of that.
But we're better off to buy their idea than have to try to create a laboratory where we have everyone trying to come up with something new.
And there are people out there doing that today.
It will not be names that you're going to be looking at today in the paper and they're not going to be big transactions that would cause you to change the sense of balance of how we make our money.
Okay.
Thanks Brooke for hosting.
And I want to thank everyone for listening to our call.
If you have any follow-up questions please feel free to call us in Investor Relations.
Thanks everybody.
This concludes U.S.
Bancorp's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to U.S.
Bancorp's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Following the review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon Eastern Daylight Time through Wednesday July 24 at 12:00 midnight Eastern Daylight Time.
I will now turn the conference call over to Judy Murphy Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Lorie and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorp's second quarter 2013 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Judy and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review U.S.
Bank's second quarter results.
I'll begin with a view of our quarterly highlights on Page 3 of the presentation.
U.S.
Bancorp reported record net income of $1.5 billion for the second quarter of 2013 or $0.76 per diluted common share.
Total average loans grew year-over-year by 5.2% and 1.2% or 5% annualized on a linked quarter basis.
We experienced strong loan growth in total average -- strong growth in total average deposits of 7% over the prior year and 1% or 4% annualized linked quarter.
Credit quality remained strong.
Total net charge-offs decreased by 9.5% from the prior quarter while nonperforming assets declined linked quarter by 5.4%.
We generated significant capital this quarter.
Our estimated Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III rules issued in early July was 8.6% at June 30 while our Basel I Tier 1 common equity ratio was 9.2% and our Tier 1 capital ratio was 11.1%.
We purchased 18 million shares of common stock during the second quarter.
These buybacks along with our dividend which was increased by 18% in June resulted in a 73% return of earnings to our shareholders in the second quarter.
On Slide 4 you can see that our performance metrics continue to be among the best in the industry.
Return on average assets in the second quarter was 1.7%.
The return on average common equity was 16.1%.
Our net interest margin and efficiency ratio are shown on the graph on the right-hand slide -- side of Slide 4.
This quarter's net interest margin of 3.43% was as expected 5 basis points lower than the prior quarter's rate of 3.48%.
And Andy will discuss the margin in more detail in just a few minutes.
Our efficiency ratio for the second quarter was 51.7%.
We anticipate that this ratio will remain in the low-50s going forward as we continue to manage expenses in relation to revenue trends while continue to invest in and grow our businesses.
Turning to Slide 5.
The company reported total net revenue in the second quarter of $4.9 billion a 2.4% decrease from prior year but a 1.5% increase over the first quarter.
The decline in revenue year-over-year was largely driven by lower Mortgage Banking revenue and net interest income.
While the favorable linked quarter variance reflected strong seasonal fee revenue trends led by payments partially offset by a decrease in net interest income.
Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on Slide 6.
Average total loans outstanding increased by over $11 billion or 5.2% year-over-year and 1.2% linked quarter accelerating from the 1% linked quarter we experienced in the first quarter.
Overall and excluding covered loans which is a run-off portfolio average total loans grew by 7.2% year-over-year and 1.6% linked quarter.
Once again the increase in average loans outstanding was led by strong growth in average commercial loans which grew by 11.2% year-over-year and 2.2% over the prior quarter.
Total average Commercial Real Estate also increased over the prior quarters with average construction loans growing by 9.9% year-over-year and 4.9% linked quarter.
Residential real estate loans also continued to show a strong growth 19.7% over the same quarter of last year and 3.9% over the prior quarter.
Within the retail loan categories average credit card loan outstandings fell slightly as consumers paid down their balances.
And average home equity lines and loans continue to decline as paydowns more than offset new loan originations.
Auto loans and leases however posted a very good growth year-over-year and linked quarter.
We continue to originate and renew new loans and lines for our customers.
New originations excluding mortgage plus new and renewed commitments totaled approximately $48 billion in the second quarter compared with $46 billion in the second quarter of last year and $36 billion last quarter.
Total average revolving corporate and commercial commitments increased year-over-year by 10.2% and 2.2% on a linked quarter basis while utilization remained flat at approximately 25% close to where it's been for the past 6 quarters.
Given early industry indicators our linked quarter average loan growth of 1.2% signifies that we are continuing to gain market share.
Additionally our current expectation is that linked quarter average loan growth will accelerate again in the third quarter to the higher end of our previously stated range of 1% to 1.5%.
Total average deposits increased by $16.1 billion or 7% over the same quarter of last year and by $2.4 billion on a linked quarter basis with growth in low-cost money market and savings deposits particularly strong on both a year-over-year and linked-quarter basis.
Turning to Slide 7 and credit quality.
Total net charge-offs in the second quarter decreased by $41 million or 9.5% from the first quarter of 2013.
While nonperforming assets excluding covered assets decreased by $108 million or 5.3%.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding in the second quarter declined to 0.70% from 0.79% in the first quarter.
During the second quarter we released $30 million of reserves equal to the first quarter and $20 million less than the second quarter of 2012.
Given the mix and quality of our portfolio we expect net charge-offs and nonperforming assets to remain relatively stable in the third quarter.
Andy will now give you a few more details about our second quarter results.
Thanks Richard.
Slide 8 gives you a view of our second quarter 2013 results versus comparable time periods.
Our diluted EPS of $0.76 was 7% higher than the second quarter 2012 and 4.1% higher than the prior quarter.
The key drivers of the company's second quarter earnings are summarized on Slide 9.
The $69 million or 4.9% increase in net income year-over-year was the result of a decrease in expense and lower provision for credit losses partially offset by a decline in net revenue.
Net interest income declined year-over-year by $41 million or 1.5% the result of a 2.7% increase in average earning assets offset by a 15 basis point decline in net interest margin.
The $8.2 billion growth in average earning assets year-over-year included increases in average total loans and the securities portfolio.
Offsetting a portion of the growth in those categories was a $3.1 billion reduction in average other earning assets primarily due to the deconsolidation of a number of community development entities and a $1.1 billion reduction in average loans held for sale reflecting lower mortgage origination activity this quarter versus the same quarter of last year.
The net interest margin of 3.43% was 15 basis points lower than the second quarter of 2012 primarily due to lower-yielding investment securities and lower loan rates partially offset by lower rates on deposits and wholesale funding including long-term debt.
Noninterest income declined by 3.4% year-over-year primarily due to Mortgage Banking revenue reflecting lower origination and sales revenue partially offset by higher servicing revenue and a favorable change in the addition to the mortgage rep and warranty repurchase reserve.
Also contributing to the decline in noninterest income year-over-year were reductions in corporate payments the result of lower government and transportation-related transactions and other income which reflected fewer equity investment gains in the prior year and lower retail products revenue primarily due to end-of-term lease valuations.
Offsetting these declines were year-over-year increases in trust and investment management fees retail payments merchant processing revenue deposit service charges and investment product fees.
Noninterest expense was lower year-over-year by $44 million or 1.7%.
The majority of this favorable variance is attributable to a favorable variance for professional services expense primarily due to the reduction in third-party foreclosure settlement-related costs as well as an accrual for a Visa-related settlement charge taken in the second quarter of last year and lower intangible expense.
These favorable variances were partially offset by higher compensation and benefits expense and increases in marketing and technology expense.
Net income was higher on a linked quarter basis by $56 million or 3.9% as a result of a 1.5% increase in revenue and lower provision for credit losses partially offset by a 3.5% increase in expense.
On a linked quarter basis net interest income was lower as average earning assets declined by $2.1 billion and net interest margin declined by 5 basis points.
The decrease in average earning assets was a result of the reduction in other earning assets and loans held for sale while the expected 5 basis point decline in net interest margin was primarily due to lower loans on rates and securities.
Given the current interest rate environment we expect net interest margin to be relatively stable in the third quarter which combined with our expectation for a linked quarter loan growth should lead to a modest increase in net interest income in the third quarter.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest income was higher by $111 million or 5.1%.
This favorable variance reflected seasonally higher payments and growth in all fee categories with the exception of Mortgage Banking revenue.
In June we had expected Mortgage Banking revenue to be higher in the second quarter than the first quarter primarily due to very strong application volumes earlier in the quarter.
However since the time we made that statement to the end of the quarter rates moved up by about 60 basis points and refinance activity slowed significantly.
As a result Mortgage Banking revenue actually came in slightly lower this quarter than last.
The $5 million decline in revenue reflected an increase in origination and sales revenue including a favorable change in the reps and warranty reserve offset by a lower gain on hedging activity than the prior quarter.
Although applications were higher in the second quarter than the first quarter the increase in volume was offset by a reduction in gain on sale margin.
We calculate gain on sale margin based on applications expected to close.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest expense was higher by $87 million or 3.5% mainly due to other expense which include higher insurance and regulatory expense relative to the first quarter.
In addition marketing and business development expense and professional service expenses were higher in the current quarter versus the prior quarter due to the timing of business line projects and initiatives.
Turning to Slide 10.
Our capital position remains strong and continues to grow.
Based on our assessment of the final rules for the Basel III standardized approach released earlier this month we estimate that our Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio at June 30 was 8.6% compared with 8.3% calculated under the previously proposed rules.
At 8.6% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement and above our targeted ratio of 8%.
Turning to Slide 11.
In June the Board of Directors declared an 18% increase in our common stock dividend.
As a result in the second quarter we returned 73% of our earnings to shareholders.
Dividends accounted for 30% of the return to shareholders and the 18 million shares of stock we repurchased in the second quarter accounted for the remaining 43%.
Of note our tangible book value per share rose to $13.48 in the second quarter which represented an 11% increase over the same quarter last year and a 1.6% increase over the prior quarter.
Finally Slide 12 provides updated detail on the company's mortgage repurchase-related expense and the reserve for expected losses on repurchases and make-whole payments.
Rep and warranty's repurchase reserve was reduced this quarter by $43 million and the outstanding repurchase and make-whole request balance at June 30 was $64 million compared with $66 million at March 31.
I'll now turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Andy.
Last Friday Andy and I had the honor of commemorating the 150th anniversary of the signing of our national bank charter by ringing the closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange.
We were joined on the stage by 10 U.S.
Bank employees who proudly represented and celebrated the rich heritage that they and their coworkers along with many who came before them have helped to create and build over the past 150 years.
Importantly as we took that moment to observe and reflect on our past we also celebrate the present and the strong foundation upon which we are building our company's future.
U.S.
Bancorp posted record earnings for the second quarter while once again achieving industry-leading profitability metrics.
We continue to build our future as we have in the past by investing in our well-diversified mix of businesses by maintaining prudent risk management by focusing on operating integrity and compliance by sustaining strong capital and liquidity and by providing superior returns for our shareholders.
As always we remain focused on producing consistent predictable and repeatable results for the benefit of our customers our employees our communities and our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Bill and I would now be happy to answer questions from our audience.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Paul Miller of FBR.
Research Division</strong> This is Jessica Ribner for Paul.
Just a question I guess on your Mortgage Banking expectations going forward.
Are you looking for higher purchase volumes? Or do you see the same level of refis? I mean we're part of the way through the third quarter what's your outlook? So Jessica let me tell you first from the perspective of what occurred in the second quarter.
From a production standpoint repurchase activity went from about 71% of the book in the first quarter to about 59% in the second quarter.
And applications were also down about 10 points in terms of refinancing.
I would expect that trend to continue.
We do expect again it's early in the quarter but given the current rates there I expect mortgage revenue will be down a bit given the rates are today and we'll continue to update throughout the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko of SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Looking at the sort of the slowdown in deposit -- average deposits growth I'm wondering on your perspective and maybe this is a broader question around the whole loan demand question.
But do you think that the banks generally are exhausting really what's out there from a deposit take? Or are we starting to maybe see -- maybe a little bit of cash being deployed on the deposit side into investment and business activities that could maybe possibly lead to an expansion of loan growth in the back half of the year? Just curious of your observations there.
Jack it's Richard.
I think it's what you are predicting and it's what we've been saying for a long time the first good movement we'll see on bank balance sheets is customers using their own deposits.
And I'm happy to report our deposits while they were up the number of customers with deposits was up as well.
But the customers who already have deposits that are using some of those to we think employ them in some form of growth.
After that we would hope to see our lines of credit especially in the wholesale side move from a utilization of 25% to anything -- 26% would be great.
We used to be at like in the mid to high-30% utilization level.
So there's a significant amount of pent-up opportunity and customers are paying for those lines to have them available and to keep them current.
And then finally there may be new lines and loans that will occur particularly on the large end when some transactions start to belie underlying growth.
I will say we do read it like you do.
I think it's a positive that it's not growing anymore than that as long as the number of customers are growing.
And to follow our prior comments I do think we're starting to see some of these green shoots that we mentioned 90 days ago as being real and sustainable and more green shoots.
It's not a rush to a huge recovery but it's absolutely and positively no longer a concern of going backwards.
We're just seeing customers being thoughtful careful.
But one at a time they're starting to get more comfortable about their future and they're starting to invest starting with their deposits sometimes getting lines of credit with the intent to use and in many cases starting to make decisions that have long-term outcomes for the long view of the economy.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just the ratio of NCOs on the card book look like it walked up a little bit.
I know in the Appendix you talked about lower recoveries obviously dollar amount down and the trend is good.
Can you talk about what that means on the recovery side and what you meant by lower recoveries and how you're thinking about that going forward? Yes this is Bill.
Part of that is really a timing thing as we brought more of the collection activities in-house on the recovery side.
Not all of the recovery collection activities but some of them.
But as we do that that delays the recognition of the recovery.
But I don't expect it to have a material long-term impact so it's really more of a timing issue.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted -- on the fee side I just wanted to ask you about just the payments businesses and specifically in the corporates payments business is still having a bit of a tough revenue trajectory.
Just wondering if you could specifically talk about that one but also talk about just your outlook for the 3 payments businesses as we look ahead? The whole payments business is 59% is our issuing business.
And the 29% falls in -- 39% falls in the Elavon or merchant acquiring and 10% falls in the corporate payment side in terms of revenue.
And to start with your question the corporate payments is about 1/3 of that is government and that continues to be down 20% year-over-year particularly based on government spending probably some of the trickle effect of the sequester and certainly just the budget increase or decreases that have been evident on the federal side.
But the rest of it continues to actually start showing some support again.
The PCAR growth is up 13% over last year.
We're starting to see a flattening and a stabilization of T&amp;E for the first time year-to-date.
So on the corporate side while it's 10% of the total the government piece which is 1/3 of that is still under some form of stress but the rest is starting to show some positive trajectories.
As it relates to the Elavon which is our merchant acquiring which also has a nice diversification of geographies it's a global business we're continuing to see growth in same-store sales that would reflect what you've seen in the statistics that both the federal government and some of the European government has said.
So there's a nice second quarter lift there.
We'll have pretty stable margins in terms of how we get paid.
And we're actually quite encouraged by what we see on the Elavon side both domestically and globally.
And then finally on the bigger part of it the 59% which is led by our issuing side we're also seeing nice support there.
As you know the average net receivables or the outstandings were slightly down year-over-year and that's particularly because people are just starting to have a higher payment activity and the payment rates were probably 1.5% higher than they were last quarters or last year so people are starting to pay them off.
But they're using the card.
And so credit's been -- was up almost 3% year-over-year following another 3% in quarter 1's growth.
So we're seeing active accounts growing nicely.
They're using their card more often.
They have -- they're right now they're paying them back more prudently.
And at the end of the day that will slow and they'll start to let that outstanding roll over and that will be another benefit.
The credit card sales for us is 9% year-over-year absent the portfolio that we sold.
And I couldn't be more optimistic about the payments business as you see a nice trend in quarter 2 we should continue to see that growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the second question just an expense question an operating leverage question.
On a -- at least on an as-reported basis we're looking at a little bit of a year-over-year decline in revenues but a little bit of a year-over-year step up in cost and you did call out the regulatory costs this quarter.
So I just wanted to try to understand the balance between revenues expenses and how do help us understand that regulatory cost if it's now run rated or was that kind of a onetime catch-up? Good question.
And I own that good question because I tell you we shoot for positive operating leverage every year.
I think we are still very much in the game to be able to create positive operating leverage even in the next couple of quarters but it will be more challenging.
And here's my real clear direction for you.
As much as mortgages will probably be down mortgage revenue in the next couple of quarters just based on the elements and you know we're a heavy purchase shop so our decrease might not be as significant as some of you reported.
But I'm not going to take an expense reduction into important investments in the next quarter or two just to accommodate lower mortgage revenue until which time the middle of the curve starts to bend up.
And if it does and the market starts to get stronger then I think we'll be fine.
So I'm not going to do any near-term adjustments just to appeal to a finally [ph] negative operating leverage if that's what it has to be but we are going to continue to watch our expenses.
The cost of compliance as you recall about a year ago but in particular the consent order was almost $50 million a quarter and that is trimmed down now to a substantially less call it $5 million to $10 million a quarter as we wind down some of those mortgage-related activities.
But I will tell you that we've continued to add compliance personnel and compliance protocols across the company to accommodate this higher requirement that we achieve near perfection on all of our operating activities.
And so not all of that 50 is going to be given back.
Most of it however though Ken is burned into the current run rate and you'll see it stabilize.
I'm just a little concerned that mortgage might drop off more than I can accommodate in expense reduction dollar-per-dollar and we're not going to overachieve on that because I don't want to suffocate the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Scinicariello of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones for you.
Just curious to hear your take given the new -- the final capital rules that we got out there and really my question to you is a little bit more big picture.
I mean do you feel that you guys kind of have a real competitive advantage versus some of your larger kind of brethren given what we're seeing out of those rules? Well the new rule effectively increased our cap ratio about 30%.
Our binding constraints Tier 1 common under the standard -- 30 basis points Tier 1 common under the Basel III standard.
So last quarter we were at 8.2% using the same calculation we would have been at 8.3% this quarter and the new calculation allowed us to get to 8.6%.
8.6% is about where -- above where we think we need to be.
Our internal guideline is about 8%.
And that is based on an assumed SIFI buffer of 50 basis points and an additional internal buffer of 50 basis points.
So I think from a capital standpoint we're in very good shape.
We're not in a situation where we're trying to build capital to a level nor are we in a situation that we're overcapitalized and have no use for the capital.
So when we're in a situation like we are today where we're returning about 70% and reinvesting 30% it allows us to reinvest at a level to accommodate the loan growth and earning asset growth that you're seeing.
So we're in a really good spot.
It allows us to make the investments we need to make at the same time allow for the growth that we are seeing right now.
Yes and just to put an exclamation point Steve we really like our position.
We like our size we like our simplicity we like our diversification.
As it relates to capital leverage and liquidity we think we're substantially where we need to be before any fine-tuning that needs to occur.
And I think all the rules that come out continue to remind us that being not a G-SIB is a positive outcome but being big enough to matter.
And being able to manage a very significant portfolio of a simple balance sheet allows us to be in a pretty good shape and we like the future we have.
Research Division</strong> Definitely it looks you're in a real sweet spot going forward.
And then the second question I had for you was just kind of in the same vein of kind of those investments for the future and you kind of touched on a little bit talking about some of the expense initiatives going forward.
Just kind of curious if there was any maybe that you wanted to kind of flag for us just so we're aware some of the things that you've got going on some of the things you're investing in and maybe some of the timing of those things how they might affect the expense line going forward? Yes good question Steve.
A couple of things.
One is we're going to continue to build our Wealth Management businesses.
As you know we started this trip 3 years ago.
It was the one piece of the puzzle I didn't think U.S.
Bank had sufficiently demonstrated leadership and not only in our Wealth Management but in our ultra-high net worth under a brand called Ascent.
We'll continue to open those offices.
We're continuing to provide technology to our teams to create a unique experience and you'll see our continued expense initiatives in Wealth Management.
Secondarily you all know that we've just recently bought a company called FSV earlier this year in Florida which is a prepaid card provider and processor.
We continue to extend our position there.
We now have no third-party partners in any part of prepaid because we have cradle-to-grave capability and a significant leadership position.
I want to continue to add to that investment and build a stronger and a unique position of strength for prepaid as it adds to our card provision.
And then finally Corporate Trust which you know we recently took across the pond and continue to see opportunities even outside of America to grow our Corporate Trust business.
We've recently become more of a provider on hedge fund servicing and other areas by some recent acquisitions.
There will be more where that came from.
It could be both in the form of M&amp;A or in the form of organic growth but I'd say those 3 areas which are the 3 areas that continue to make us unique: payments Corporate Trust and Special Wealth Management growth.
I think those are areas you'd want us to invest in.
They've got great trajectory now and I want continue that momentum so that when the world is better and ready to roll we'll already be there.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just had a few follow-up questions and the first is on the dollar cost trajectory for the remaining of the year.
Should we take out the $66 million in quarter-over-quarter increase in regulatory expense when we're thinking about the run rate for the third quarter? Or will some of that stay? What I would say Erika is the first quarter is seasonally low and then we had a little bit of a positive insurance recoveries and other expense.
And I think the second quarter is more reflective of our run rate of expense with normal increases.
So I would use second quarter as more of the basis for expense.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And the second follow-up question is you mentioned that mortgage revenues would be down just a bit.
But we heard another large bank mention that they think if rates stay -- loan rates stay here that the mortgage market is going to be down 30% to 40%.
Is the message from U.S.
Bank that you will outperform the market? And if that 30% to 40% decline is correct where are you in terms of your outperformance relative to that number just in proportion? Right.
So first Erika as you know mortgage application or gain-on-sale revenue is one component of mortgage revenue.
There are other puts and takes including servicing revenue the net hedge and so forth.
So my expectation is not have our mortgage revenue decline to the level you just described.
It's going to be less than that but I do think it will go down.
Application volume is a component of that but there are a lot of gives and takes.
And again we'll update as we see more throughout the quarter but I do expect mortgage revenue to be down a little bit principally due to the gain on sale principally due to applications but there are some offsets.
And Erika it's Richard.
It will be down unless rates were to turn.
This thing turns so fast.
We'd be crazy to try to predict the next 10 weeks when we can't see it that far.
But we also have a -- always had a focus on purchase.
So it's coming our way as a real base to what we're being good at and what we're focusing our market reputation on.
And as you'll also remember we never were as big on a HARP kind of a product which is probably more likely to be one of the victims of increasing rates.
And we didn't rely on that a lot because we didn't have a portfolio that allowed us to have much to refi.
So in some cases we probably should do better than average but it will definitely be down and we're projecting the second half of the year to be less than the first half.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one more follow-up Richard it was loud and clear as you answered Ken's question on taking out expenses near term to accommodate some of the swings in mortgage revenue.
I guess no matter what we should just look to your consolidated guidance of 50% on the efficiency side as we think about the puts and takes of -- Yes that's a really good way to think of it because we never set that target it's always a result.
But I can tell you that low-50s and where we have been forever.
And especially in the last few years by quarter that should not change materially.
That we will protect that.
And I can tell you I know we can because mortgage isn't the only thing that's growing around here and it will just be one of the components we'll keep an eye on.
So I'm glad you heard me because I don't want to be dollar-for-dollar and be shortsighted.
We've been working for 5 years to grow a substantial amount of momentum and become a revenue company not an expense company and I'd hate to slow that down this last stage and we're going to be very protective of it.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to drill into a couple of business lines.
One is the merchant acquiring business that you have and I know that you've invested globally there.
We had some news the other night from the FT that suggested that the European Commission is proposing some changes on interchange in Europe which I know many people have been thinking about.
One of the elements they are supposed to be considering supposedly is separating out payments issuers from processors.
And I'm wondering what that does to your merchant acquiring business in Europe is it something that would be an opportunity for you? Yes.
It's definitely not a concern based on what we've read like you have.
We're entirely an acquirer not an issuer and a processor.
So the issuers are where that is the gun sights are pointed in that topic.
And as you said there is an opportunity for us particularly given our close-loop capability in our own proprietary product that we believe this could be a net positive for us as a leading acquirer and processor.
So we don't see it as a negative.
We're trying to understand whether it's a positive but we're not worried about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately in auto could you give us a sense as to what exactly happened in auto? And what kind of reinvestment in the business you're doing now? And then a little bit on opportunity for share gain from here and what would drive that? Betsy this is Bill.
Yes we had a strong auto quarter both loans and leases.
And we anticipate that to be a strong third quarter too.
We obviously can monitor the new car sales.
So we get a good sense of what our market share is and in the second quarter we definitely grew market share.
It's a competitive space but we've made the right investments to be successful there.
We've been in the business a long time and we're very good at it.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And there's been some discussion around how the CFPB has come into the mix here requiring the dealer rebates be done in a potentially a different way.
And I know you've updated The Street on how you're thinking about it but has your thoughts changed at all since your last update? No.
When that came out we took action immediately and narrowed the amount of dealer reserve discretion.
We had no negative consequences to that.
I think our dealers all understood it.
We worked with them and we've seen increase in volume since then.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no competitive reaction against what you did? A couple of other banks followed us yes.
A couple of banks followed us but it didn't hurt our volume and we're actually feeling that we've green fenced [ph] a little bit of the risk.
The real issue here Betsy as you know is going to be if the banks as an entity can compete effectively with the captives who are not part of the CFPB's oversight and that's a long time to be determined.
And as it relates to our position against both of those entities we're growing market share and we like the business so we're going to continue to find ways to expand not only in geographies but also in product types that are start to emerge as rates start to go up.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Barker of Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just would like to discuss some of the increase in Commercial Real Estate loans this quarter compared to what's happened over the last year.
You definitely saw a pickup from the first quarter and we're starting to see just broad growth across from the Fed data.
Is there any particular sectors where you're seeing Commercial Real Estate pick up or any particular regions where you're seeing that? Yes I can speak to that.
This is Bill.
We've seen -- for several quarters now we've seen multifamily being kind of the lead property class for demand.
And for us we've seen good new construction activity in Seattle both Bay Area and Southern California and then Houston.
Those have been the primary areas for us.
In other areas we have seen some hotel/motel lodging demand that's picked up a little bit.
That's strong pretty much in all the coastal cities.
So those are the primary areas that we've seen Commercial Real Estate growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then concerning residential real estate given that the 30-year has moved up so much and you're seeing a decline in application volume for conforming 30-year fixed mortgages are you seeing any application shift towards 5/1 ARMs or 15-year fixed given the move-in [ph] rates? Or is that -- you're also seeing a similar decline as you are for 30-year fixed? This is Andy.
There's a bit of a shift to more of a shorter duration as you described and a little bit perhaps more on the variable rate.
I will also tell you that which we're putting on balance sheet our Smart Refinance product has always been shorter in terms of the term there closer to the 15-year.
So the 30-year is not impacting that as much and the decline is coming on the mortgage production in the 30-year but there is some shift to shorter terms.
I'd say here as it turns out I was surprised but I thought there might be a bit of a tsunami effect or a cash-for-clunkers effect where we get a pent-up demand and anybody who still hadn't refi would come into the game now.
And it doesn't seemed to have happened.
I mean it seems that people are still moving at kind of a snail's pace.
So if they still see a deal that's better than the one they have they'll come in.
But we're not seeing that kind of onetime surprise that I thought we might have.
That relates to mortgage.
But until short-term interest rates start to move we won't expect to see a great deal of effect on the commercial and wholesale side although I do still predict there will be a bit of a rush to the gates when that starts to become a real thing.
And we haven't seen that triggered yet and I think that will be an upper for wholesale lending at that moment in time which could be a few quarters out.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Werner of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us an update on the bank M&amp;A environment in terms of what you're seeing.
Are you still seeing the big gaps between sellers and buyers at this point given that we've seen a lot of M&amp;A activity amongst the smaller banks? Dan we haven't seen any activity.
I mean I could pick it up I wouldn't.
But I mean I can make it sound interesting but we haven't.
We've had no approaches of any significance.
We're not approaching anyone.
Like you I read about the small banks continuing to cobble together to find some critical mass which makes total sense to me.
Because the cost of compliance and just regulatory costs are easier by a larger base.
But really none.
I mean it couldn't be more dormant.
And our interest couldn't be lower either.
So I think as to an opportunity we're not playing that indeed right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Arfstrom with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on that.
How about the payments business and the processing business are you seeing more opportunities there? Yes that actually that feels a little more heated.
Because first of all we're known to be an acquirer -- an active acquirer.
We're known to -- we'll talk to anybody.
I've said this before but a few folks that created the great idea in a garage that's got payments unique that's attached to it we'll talk to them.
And some of the deals we look at are typically privately-held businesses.
They're smaller than you would probably ever read about but these are groups of people that either don't want to go out and raise the second round the third round of capital and they want to be part of something bigger.
In many cases we can bring them in to be part of the company as well or sometimes they just sell and move on.
But I would say we have a very active list of M&amp;A opportunities.
Fewer as a percentage would come to the end but it's not for a lack of having looked and seeing interest.
And people know us so they're coming at us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then Andy maybe a question for you.
On your margin guidance you talked about flattish for Q3.
Is that something that's Q3-specific? Or is this more of a longer-term trend where maybe we're seeing we're near the end of the margin pressure for the company? Yes Jon.
So we talked about the fact that I expected the margin pressure to be worse in the first quarter 5% in the second quarter and start to dissipate as we got in the second half of the year.
So it's not a unique third quarter event.
It's just a function of our reinvestment rates coming closer to our rates currently on the books and currently rolling off.
So we talked about that happening.
It is happening and we do expect the relative stability.
Let me add one last -- we didn't get a question on it so I'm going to create my own.
Richard what do you think about the growth of loan volume? We went from 1% linked quarter in quarter 1 to actually 1.25% in quarter 2.
We have enough of a view to see that that will go up in quarter 3.
I don't know exactly how far because things -- we still have 10 weeks to go.
But we are seeing -- here's how I would characterize it.
Our flight-to-quality which we've talked about for many quarters many couple of years now has become the real deal and it's certainly brought us a lot of good market share in the years going into this downturn.
It's now becoming into a kind of phase 2 where we we're invited into a lot of transactions and a lot of customers at the depths of the recession when they wanted a strong -- you know our highest ratings held [ph].
And now they're rolling these over and we're getting invited back in at higher positions.
We're invited in in some cases to lead transactions.
And of course the other business that comes with it is amazing.
So for us to try to articulate why in a basically flat loan growth market we are growing now and why we still think that can continue and in fact grow.
I do think the secret sauce in U.S.
Bank's business line is that we've got this flight-to-quality that's now turning into a -- we auditioned we performed well and now we're getting the lead part.
And that's a really a good thing to see at this point and stage.
And then as these commitments we never talk enough about our commitments have continued to grow faster than our loans outstanding.
And as you all as analysts know the minute and if those actually get used whoever has the line of credit has established themselves as the first among few to be the one to draw on that's going to be the next round of loan growth notwithstanding new customers.
So we love our positioning there we're actually fairly opportunistic and we're going to tell you that in an optimistic way to give you a sense that we see sustainability there.
I think that's it Lorie.
Are there any more questions? Thank you.
That concludes the Q&amp;A portion of today's call.
I will now turn the floor over to Judy Murphy for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
I want to thank everyone for listening to our call.
As always if you have questions please feel free to give Sean O'Connor or myself a call later today.
Thank you.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you for participating in U.S.
Bancorp's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to U.S.
Bancorp's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon EDT through Wednesday October 23 at 12:00 midnight EDT.
I will now turn the conference call over to Judy Murphy Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Tiffany and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorp's third quarter 2013 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Judy and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call.
I'll begin with a review of U.S.
Bank's results with a summary of the third quarter's highlights on Page 3 of the presentation.
U.S.
Bank recorded net income of $1.5 billion for the third quarter of 2013 or $0.76 per diluted common share.
Total average loans grew year-over-year by 5.7% and 1.9% or 7.6% annualized on a linked-quarter basis.
We experienced strong loan growth in total average -- strong growth in total average deposits of 5.5% over the prior year and 2% or 8% annualized over a linked-quarter basis.
Credit quality remained strong.
Total net charge-offs decreased by 16.3% from the prior quarter while total nonperforming assets declined linked quarter by 2.8%.
We generated significant capital this quarter.
Our estimated Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III rules issued in early July was 8.6% at September 30 while our Basel I Tier 1 common equity ratio was 9.3% and our Tier 1 capital ratio was 11.2%.
We returned 77% of our earnings to our shareholders during the third quarter through dividends and the repurchase of over 17 million shares of common stock.
Slide 4 provides you with a 5-quarter history of our performance metrics and they continue to be among the best in the industry.
Return on average assets in the third quarter was 1.65% and return on average common equity was 15.8%.
Moving to the graph on the right you can see that this quarter's net interest margin was equal to the prior quarter at 3.43%.
Our efficiency ratio for the third quarter was 52.4% slightly higher than the previous quarter.
As we have stated in the past our goal is to maintain an efficiency ratio in the low 50s by continuing to manage expenses in relation to revenue trends and while continuing to invest in and grow our business.
Turning to Slide 5.
The company reported total net revenue in the third quarter of $4.9 billion a 5.6% decrease from the prior year and a 1.2% decrease from the second quarter.
The decline in revenue year-over-year was largely driven by lower mortgage banking revenue as well as decreases in net interest income and other income which included a onetime gain in 2012.
The linked-quarter variance in revenue also reflected the pullback in mortgage banking activity.
Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on Slide 6.
Average total loans outstanding increased by over $12 billion or 5.7% year-over-year and 1.9% linked quarter accelerating from the 1.2% linked quarter we experienced in the second quarter.
Overall excluding covered loans a run-off portfolio average total loans grew by 7.5% year-over-year and 2.2% linked quarter.
Once again the increase in average loans outstanding was supported by strong growth in average commercial loans which grew by 10.9% year-over-year and 2.2% over the prior quarter.
Total average commercial real estate also increased over the prior quarters with average loans growing by 5.1% year-over-year and 1.6% linked quarter.
Residential real estate loans continued to show strong growth of 19.9% year-over-year and 4.8% over the prior quarter.
Within the retail loan categories average credit card loans and auto loans and leases were higher both year-over-year and linked quarter while average home equity loans and lines continued however to decline as paydowns more than offset new loan originations.
We continue to originate and renew loans and lines for our customers.
New originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments totaled approximately $47.9 billion in the third quarter equal to the prior quarter and higher than the $45.1 billion originated in the third quarter of last year.
Total average revolving commercial and commercial real estate commitments continue to grow at a faster pace than loans increasing year-over-year by 9.9% and 3.2% on a linked-quarter basis.
Line utilization however edged down slightly again this quarter to approximately 24%.
Given early industry indicators our linked-quarter average loan growth of 1.9% signifies that we are continuing to gain market share.
Our expectation is that linked-quarter average loan growth in the fourth quarter will once again be at the high end of our previously stated range of 1% to 1.5%.
Total average deposits increased by over $13 billion or 5.5% over the same quarter of last year and by $5 billion on a linked-quarter basis with growth in low-cost interest checking money market and savings deposits particularly strong on a year-over-year basis.
Turning to Slide 7 and credit quality.
Total net charge-offs in the third quarter decreased by $64 million or 16.3% from the second quarter of 2013 while nonperforming assets excluding covered assets decreased by $41 million or 2.1%.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding in the third quarter declined to 0.57% from 0.70% in the second quarter.
During the third quarter we released $30 million of reserves equal to the second quarter and $20 million less than in the third quarter of 2012.
Given the mix and quality of our portfolio we currently expect net charge-offs and nonperforming assets to remain relatively stable in the fourth quarter.
Andy will now give you a few more details about our third quarter results.
Thanks Richard.
Slide 8 gives you a view of our third quarter 2013 results versus comparable time periods.
Our diluted EPS is $0.76 was 2.7% higher than the third quarter of 2012 and equal to the prior quarter.
The key drivers of the company's third quarter earnings are summarized on Slide 9.
The $6 million or 0.4% decline in net income year-over-year was the result of a decline in net revenue offset by a decrease in expense and a lower provision for credit losses.
Net interest income declined year-over-year by $69 million or 2.5% the result of a 2% increase in average earning assets offset by a 16 basis point decrease in the net interest margin.
The $6.1 billion growth in average earning assets year-over-year included increases in average total loans and investment securities.
Offsetting a portion of the growth in these categories was a $5.4 billion reduction in average other earning assets primarily due to the deconsolidation of a number of community development entities in the second quarter and a $3.5 billion reduction in average loans held for sale reflecting lower mortgage origination activity this quarter versus the same quarter of last year.
Net interest margin of 3.43% was 16 basis points lower than the third quarter of 2012 primarily due to lower rates in investment securities and loans partially offset by lower rates in deposits and a reduction in higher-cost long-term debt.
Noninterest income declined by $219 million or 9.1% year-over-year primarily due to mortgage banking revenue reflecting lower origination and sales revenue partially offset by higher servicing-related revenue and a favorable change in the valuation of mortgage servicing rights net of the hedge.
Also contributing to the decline in noninterest income year-over-year was a reduction in other income which largely reflected the 2012 gain from the sale of a credit card portfolio.
Lower commercial products revenue and a reduction in corporate payments revenue the result of lower government-related transaction also contributed to the decline.
As a reminder corporate payments represents approximately 25% of our total payments revenue and approximately 40% of the corporate payments revenue is government-related while about 55% of the government revenue is related to defense spending.
Defense spending was down about 19% year-over-year an improvement over the second quarter's rate of decline while the remaining portion of the government spend was essentially flat to last year.
A number of key categories helped to offset these unfavorable variances including retail payments merchant processing trust and investment management fees and investment product fees.
Noninterest expense declined year-over-year by $44 million or 1.7%.
The majority of this favorable variance was the result of a decrease in professional service expense primarily due to the reduction in third-party foreclosure settlement-related costs.
In addition compensation and marketing expenses declined year-over-year.
These favorable variances were partially offset by higher benefits expense primarily pension-related and higher costs associated with our tax-advantaged investments.
Net income was lower on a linked-quarter basis by $16 million or 1.1% as a result of a 1.2% decrease in revenue and a slight increase in expense partially offset by lower provision for credit losses.
On a linked-quarter basis net interest income was higher as average earning assets increased by $3.1 billion and net interest margin came in as expected stable to the second quarter at 3.43%.
The increase in average earning assets was the result of a growth in loans and securities partially offset by a reduction in average loans held for sale.
On a linked-quarter basis noninterest income was lower by $99 million or 4.3%.
Again this unfavorable variance primarily reflected the decline in mortgage banking revenue as well as other income which was lower linked quarter as a result of reduced equity investment income retail lease revenue and a small merchant processing gain recorded in the second quarter.
Partially offsetting the decline in these revenue categories was an increase in deposit service charges and seasonally higher corporate payments revenue.
On a linked-quarter basis noninterest expense was essentially flat up by just 0.3% largely due to other expense which included higher costs related to tax-advantaged investments.
Turning to Slide 10.
Our capital position is strong and continues to grow.
Based on our assessment of the final rules of the Basel III standardized approach released in July we estimate that our Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio at September 30 was 8.6% equal to the ratio at June 30.
At 8.6% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement and above our targeted ratio of 8%.
In the third quarter we returned 30% of our earnings to shareholders in the form of dividends and 40% -- 47% through the repurchase of over 17 million shares of stock for a total return of 77%.
Of note our tangible book value per share rose to $13.82 at September 30 representing an 8.4% increase over the same quarter of last year and a 2.5% increase over the prior quarter.
Finally Slide 11 provides updated detail on the company's mortgage repurchase-related expense and a reserve for expected losses on repurchases and make-whole payments.
The rep and warranties repurchase reserve was $176 million at September 30 while the outstanding repurchase and make-whole request balances at September 30 was $114 million.
I'll now turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Andy.
And turning to Slide 12.
In September we hosted our 2013 Investor Day in New York City.
The theme of this year's conference was Extending the Advantage which followed our 2010 Investor Day theme of Positioned to Win.
During the presentations our senior management team spent time reviewing what we accomplished since 2010 which included our added distribution and sale; our expanded products services and capabilities; and our gains in market share as well as how we positioned the company to capitalize on future growth opportunities.
In other words how we are extending the sustainable competitive advantage that our company has created through carefully investing in our diversified business model by maintaining prudent risk management by focusing on operating integrity and compliance by sustaining strong capital and liquidity and by providing superior returns for our shareholders.
U.S.
Bank's performance metrics for the third quarter will once again be among the best in the industry.
We will continue to build our company to perform in the future as we have in the past and remain focused on producing consistent predictable and repeatable results for the benefit of our customers our employees our communities and our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Bill and I would now be happy to answer questions from our audience.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Erika Najarian of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question goes with the theme of Extending the Advantage.
As I'm sure you're aware larger banks or banks just larger than you have to comply with these new supplementary leverage ratio rules.
And particularly as it relates to the 100% capital that they have to hold against unfunded lending commitments do you think that could be an opportunity for a bank with your scale and size if the SLR does pass as proposed? Erika this is Andy.
While we're not bound by that supplementary ratio our ratio in fact would be above the 6% that we currently have.
So it is -- given the simple structure of our balance sheet and the fact that most of our deposits -- or most of our funding is deposit-oriented it is not a major factor for us.
And so to that extent it could be an advantage.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just a question on your Basel III disclosure.
Could you give us what your Basel III Tier 1 common would be under the advanced approach? It's interesting.
We have a situation where our standardized approach is a lower ratio than our advanced approach.
Said another way standardized is our binding constraint because the advantage that we get from our simple high-quality credit portfolio is more than the negative we get from increasing of our capital due to operational risk.
So our capital ratio actually would be higher under the advanced approach.
Therefore our return would be actually a little bit better.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Richard I was just wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on your expectations for keeping the loan growth rate about the same pace and help us think about the constitution of it.
It seemed like this quarter you had resi mortgage pick up the slack a little bit.
And so I'm just wondering what you're seeing in terms of people's appetite out there but also your appetite for retaining certain types of loan production.
Yes thanks Ken.
Mortgage had a strong quarter and it's actually across the board.
We were very pleased especially in some of the auto and consumer areas that have in the last couple of quarters not had this kind of lift.
So I like the way it came about this quarter which gives me confidence to say that we'll still be in that 1% to 1.5% range and probably in the high end of that unless something occurs that we all know about in Washington that precludes a lot of things.
In that case I'll tell you we've got some opportunities for continued growth because of the following.
In the last couple of years U.S.
Bank continues to be invited into more syndicated deals and in a higher position by far than we used to be in in some cases at the lead position.
And that's a big turnaround from what we might used to have expected a few years ago.
And likewise as you know one of the biggest sources of lending right now in line of benefits are refinancing and customers restriking their balance sheet.
And so when they come up to that renewal point and we get invited into deals we weren't before or get invited to upsize into deals we've been in that's a big driver for us.
And that continues to happen at higher levels and expected to continue to happen even more so in the next couple of quarters.
I might add that we're a flight to quality bank so even when there's any kind of question in the economy about what might be otherwise negative we tend to get the benefits that accrue to that on the lending side as well as on the deposit gathering side where you might expect people to come for that safety.
The other thing Ken is that besides that we're adding a lot of new customers.
We've been talking about it for years.
We really are honest to God adding new customers.
And I've always struggled to explain that market share after a while it does I think continue to be real when it's consistently repeatable and it's happening for us.
And I think the number of new customers are at more substantial levels than they might used to have been because we get invited in as the lead bank or at a substantial position.
So I think everything we have is repeatable and sustainable.
That's why I'm quite confident.
The market itself is not growing naturally so I think it has to be market share.
And finally we're doing it on price.
If we need to be competitive our cost of funding is advantaged over every single other bank we compete with.
We're not afraid to use a little bit of that but I'll also tell you we will not go into structure.
We will not take risk on underwriting and we're not going to be in harm's way in some of those areas that I think the OCC particularly is going to be watching closely.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And my second question Andy you had been talking about getting to this point of margin stability and we certainly saw that pickup in the investment securities yield.
So I'm just wondering how you see the different parts in securities and then loans which are still trending down on a yields basis.
How much -- how are you reinvesting I guess on the securities book? And then also how close are we to the bottom of the loan yield side? Yes.
So Ken we're investing about half and half floaters and fixed on the security side.
We're keeping the duration short understanding that rates will go up.
And we continue to maintain an asset sensitivity on our balance sheet.
With regard to the loan side I think we are seeing loan spread stabilize.
There are certain pockets particularly in the middle market and maybe on the smaller end that we have some aggressive players that caused a little bit of a compression on spread.
But as Richard mentioned we have a funding advantage so we could always compete on price.
My expectation for the fourth quarter margin is relative stability again.
However I do want to note one item.
With the government issues that we're facing we are seeing an influx of deposits and quite a strong influx.
And that -- while it doesn't impact net interest income it does cause our net interest margin to go down a bit.
So that could impact it by 1 basis point or 2.
But absent that I would see relative stability.
[indiscernible] a flight to quality bank.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Dan Werner of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> This is kind of more of a forward-looking thing.
On the corporate payments business and the government shutdown could you comment on how that's impacted fourth quarter so far? And if that -- if those revenues are significantly lower will they be made up once the government shutdown ends? Yes I'll just go on quickly.
As we try to characterize this particular earnings call I think people might have thought we have a bigger position as the government affects our corporate payments.
And I think you heard us walk through -- Andy walked through the percentage of the percentage of the percentage.
By the way that's only 20% of the total company's revenue.
So it's really about a 1-ish kind of a percent impact to our total revenue but it is an impact.
And I'll tell you it started out looking like sequester and a pull out of a war situation and that's been the last probably 6 to 8 quarters.
Right now it looks like the continuation of the sequester and what continues to be now a government shutdown.
Once and if those things get behind us it will start to pick back up but not to the original levels until which time we get into a stronger purchasing pattern by some of the government agencies and well beyond whatever the sequester will end up to be.
So I think this quarter will continue to be stressed for all the reasons we've been talking about limited in Washington and a little bit worse than they've been in the last few quarters.
But once and when that gets past then we expect this thing to start to pull back up and we'll see a sustainable recovery as the government agencies start to spend in particular the Department of Defense gets it budget back and knows what its rules are going to be in the case going forward.
Andy do you want to...
I think that's right Richard.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Judy Murphy.
Thank you for listening to our call.
Richard do you have any...
I just want to tell you guys that we are quite pleased with the follow-up we had from the Investor Day a couple of weeks ago.
We do our very best to telegraph to you all exactly what is going on and I think the results you read this morning were exactly what we suggested.
We have a really good play at this company.
We see the balance sheet continuing to grow.
We have good margin protection.
We've got good compliance and operating integrity.
And as you worry about surprises I think in this case sustainable predictable repeatable is working pretty well.
And we're going to continue to deliver on those consistent methods that we have in the past.
We're always available for questions but we appreciate the following of our company.
Yes thanks Richard.
And thanks everyone for listening to the call.
And of course as usual if you have questions please feel free to call Sean or I in Investor Relations.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to U.S.
Bancorp's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon EST through Wednesday January 29 at 12:00 oclock midnight EST.
I will now turn the conference call over to Judy Murphy Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Tiffany and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review US Bancorp's fourth quarter and full year 2013 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during our prepared remarks.
A copy of this slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Judy and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining our call.
I'll begin with a few highlights from U.S.
Bank's 2013 full year results on Page 3 of the presentation.
U.S.
Bancorp [reported] recorded net income of $5.8 billion for the full year of 2013 or $3 per diluted common share.
We achieved industry leading profitability with a return on average asset of 1.65% and return on average common equity of 15.8% and efficiency ratio of 52.4%.
Total average loans grew by 5.6% and average deposits grew a strong 6.3% year-over-year.
Credit quality continued to improve at a 30.1% decline in net charge-offs and a 13.2% decrease in nonperforming assets excluding covered assets.
Our capital position end of the year stronger with a Tier 1 common equity ratio of 9.4% in total we returned $4 billion or 71% of our 2013 earnings to our shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.
Turning to Slide 4 and our quarterly highlights U.S.
Bancorp reported net income of $1.5 billion for the fourth quarter of 2013 or $0.76% per diluted common share.
Total average loans grew by year-over-year by 5.7% and as expected 1.5% or 6% annualized on a linked-quarter basis.
We experienced strong loan growth in total average -- strong growth in total average deposits of 5.4% over the prior year and 1.8% or 7.2% annualized on a linked-quarter basis.
Credit quality remained strong.
Total net charge-offs decreased by 4.9% from the prior quarter while total nonperforming assets declined linked quarter by 7.9%.
We continued to generate significant capital this quarter.
Our common equity Tier 1 ratio estimated using the final Basel III capital regulations was 8.8% at December 31 and we returned 65% of our earnings to shareholders during the fourth quarter through dividends and the repurchase of 13 million shares of common stock.
Slide 5 provides you with a 5-quarter history of our performance metrics and they continue to be ranked among the best in the industry.
Return on average assets in the fourth quarter was 1.62% and return on average common equity was 15.4%.
Moving over to the graph on the right you can see that this quarter's net interest margin was 3.40% as anticipated a few basis points lower than the third quarter.
Our efficiency ratio for the fourth quarter was 54.9% higher than previous quarter due to the seasonally higher expenses and the impact of accounting presentation changes related to investments and tax advantage projects.
These changes did not impact net income attributable to U.S.
Bank and Andy will discuss them in more detail in a few minutes.
As we have stated in the past our goal is to maintain an efficiency ratio in the low 50s by continuing to manage expenses in relation to revenue trends while continue to invest in and grow our businesses.
And we do expect the efficiency ratio to return to the low 50s in 2014.
Turning to Slide 6.
The company reported total net revenue in the fourth quarter of $4.9 billion a 4.4% decrease from the prior year and essentially equal to the third quarter.
The decline in revenue year-over-year was largely driven by lower mortgage banking revenue as well as a decrease in net interest income.
Linked quarter a decrease in noninterest income driven again by lower mortgage banking revenue was offset by seasonally higher revenues in other business lines and an increase in net interest income.
Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on Slide 7.
Average total loans outstanding increased by over $12 billion or 5.7% year-over-year and 1.5% on a linked quarter basis.
Overall excluding covered loans a run-off portfolio average total loans grew by 7.3% year-over-year and 1.9% linked quarter.
Once again the increase in average loans outstanding was supported by strong growth in average total commercial loans which grew by 7.8% year-over-year and 1.3% over the prior quarter.
Total average commercial real estate also increased over the prior quarters with an average loans growing by 6.7% year-over-year and 2.1% linked quarter.
Residential real estate loans continue to show strong growth 17.6% year-over-year and 3.2% over the prior quarter.
Within the retail loan category average credit card loans and auto loans and leases were both high year-over-year and linked quarter while average home equity lines and loans continue to decline.
The rate of decline in this category however has slowed considerably over the past few quarters.
We continue to originate and renew new loans and lines for our customers new originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments totaled approximately $50 billion in the fourth quarter up 4% linked quarter.
Total average revolving commercial and commercial real-estate commitments continue to grow at a faster rate than loans increasing year-over-year by 10.1% and 2.7% on a linked quarter basis.
Line utilization edged down slightly again this quarter to approximately 23%.
Total average deposits increased by over $13 billion or 5.4% over the same quarter of last year and by $4.5 billion or 7.2% annualized on a linked quarter basis.
With growth in low cost interest checking money market and savings deposits particularly strong on a year-over-year basis.
Turning to slide eight in credit quality.
Total net charge-offs in the fourth quarter decreased by $16 million or 4.9% from the third quarter of 2013 while non-performing assets excluding covered assets decreased by $67 million or 3.6%.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding in the fourth quarter declined to 0.53% from 0.57% in the third quarter.
During the fourth quarter we released $35 million of reserves $5 million more than in the previous quarter and $10 million more in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Given the mixed and quality of our portfolio we currently expect total non-performing assets to remain relatively stable in the first quarter of 2014 while we expect the level of net charge-offs to increase modestly in the first quarter of 2014 as commercial and commercial real-estate recoveries declined relative to the current quarter.
Andy will now give you few more details about our fourth quarter results.
Thanks Richard.
Slide 9 gives you a view of our fourth quarter 2013 results versus comparable time periods.
Our diluted EPS was $0.76 was 5.6% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012 and equal to the prior quarter.
The key drivers of the Companys fourth quarter earnings are summarized on slide 10.
$36 million or 2.5% increase in net income year-over-year was primarily the result of lower producing for credit losses and well managed expense partially offset by lower net revenue.
Non-interest income declined year-over-year by $50 million or 1.8% the result of 2.3% increase in average earning assets which was more than offset by 15 basis point decrease in net interest margin.
The $7.3 billion growth in average earning assets year-over-year included increases in average total loans and investment securities.
Offsetting the portion of the growth in these categories was a $5.8 billion reduction in average loans held for sale reflecting lower mortgage origination activity versus the same quarter of last year and a $3.8 billion reduction in average other earning assets primarily due to the reconsolidation of a number of community development entities in the third quarter of 2013.
The net interest margin of 3.40% was 15 basis points slower than the fourth quarter of 2012 primarily due to lower rates on investment securities as well as growth in the portfolio and lower rates on loans partially offset by lower rates on deposits and a reduction in higher cost long-term debt.
Non-interest income declined by $173 million or 7.4% year-over-year primarily due to mortgage banking revenue which reflected lower origination and sales revenue.
Lower corporate payments revenue products revenue the result of lower government related transactions also contributed to the decline.
Government spending was down about 18% year-over-year.
Growth in several free categories help to offset these unfavorable variances including growth in retail payments merchant processing trust and investment management fees deposit service charges commercial products revenue and investment product fees.
Non-interest expense declined modestly year-over-year by $4 million or 0.1% the modest decrease was primarily the result of lower professional services expenses due to a reduction in mortgage servicing review related cost and the positive impact from an $80 million mortgage foreclosure related regulatory settlement accrual in the fourth quarter of 2012.
These favorable variances were offset by higher benefits expense primarily pension related and higher tax advantage project cost including the accounting presentation changes in the current quarter.
In the fourth quarter we changed the presentation of some tax credit related items in our income statement.
These changes were not significant and had no impact on EPS.
The impact of the changes is shown on the chart on this slide.
These changes in addition to our favorable conclusion on some state tax matters reduced the effective tax rate to 23.8% on a tax equivalent basis in the fourth quarter.
This new presentation will continue in future periods.
However in the first quarter of 2014 we also expect to adopt new accounting guidance recently issued by FASB which will move non-interest expense on certain tax credit investments to tax expense.
Including all of these changes we expect our tax rate in 2014 to be about 29% on a tax equivalent basis.
Net income was lower on a linked quarter basis by $12 million or 0.8% primarily as a result of seasonally higher expense partially offset by lower provision for credit losses.
On a linked quarter basis net interest income was higher as the $4.5 billion increase in average earning assets was only partially offset by a modest decline in the net interest margin.
The increase in average earning assets was the result of growth in loans and securities partially offset by a reduction in average loans held for sale.
The net interest margin of 3.40% was 3 basis points lower than the third quarter primarily due to the growth in lower tax investments lower rate investment securities as well as strong deposit growth which resulted in higher cash balances at the [bank].
On a linked quarter basis non-interest income was lower by $21 million or 1%.
Again this unfavorable variance primarily reflected the decline in mortgage banking revenue as well as seasonally lower corporate [payments] revenue.
Partially offsetting the decline in these revenue categories was an increase in retail payments trust and investment management fees commercial product revenue and other income.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest expense was up $117 million or 4.6% driven by higher costs related to tax-advantaged projects including the accounting presentation changes seasonally higher professional services expense and the timing of marketing and business development projects.
Given normal first quarter seasonality and FASB's new accounting guidance related to tax credit investments we expect first quarter 2014 expense to be similar to the third quarter of 2013.
Turning to slide 11.
Our capital position is strong and continues to grow.
Based on our assessment of the final rules for the Basel III standardized approach we estimate that our common equity tier 1 ratio at December 31st was 8.8% up from 8.6% at September 30th.
At 8.8% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement and above our targeted ratio of 8%.
In the fourth quarter we returned 30% of our earnings to shareholders in the form of dividends and 35% through the repurchase of 30 million shares of stock for a total return of 65%.
Our tangible book value per share rose to $14.41 at December 31st representing an 11.9% increase over the same quarter of last year and a 4.3% increase over the prior quarter.
In early January we completed and submitted our 2014 capital plan to the Federal Reserve.
We are now waiting for regulatory approval to raise our dividend and continue our stock buyback program in 2014.
Finally slide 12 provides updated detail on the companys mortgage repurchase related expense and reserve for expected losses on the repurchases and make whole payments.
The record warranties repurchase reserve was $83 million at December 31st compared with a $176 million at September 30th.
The decline in the reserve reflected the December agreement with Freddie Mac that resolved substantially all repurchase obligations related to reps and warranties made on loans sold to Freddie Mac between 2000 and 2008.
The $53 million settlement was reflected in net realized losses for the quarter.
Now Ill turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Andy.
Im very proud of our 2013 results.
We achieved record earnings while we manage through a challenging economic environment and a significant pullback in mortgage banking activities as well as in an environment of regulatory and legislative change and uncertainty.
We continue to invest in our businesses throughout 2013 both organically and through acquisitions.
For example we added a small Municipal Bond Trustee business in March strengthening our position as the number one provider to municipal trustee and agency services in United States.
And in November we announced the acquisition of Quintillion Limited an Ireland-based full service hedge-fund administrator further expanding our alternative investment servicing network in Europe.
And we began the New Year with an announcement of the purchase of the Chicago branch franchise owned by RBS Citizens Financial Group.
This investment while nearly double our market share in this great market within our footprint strengthening our position and adding product services and convenience for new and existing customers as well as value for our shareholders.
These acquisitions combined with our ongoing investments in innovative product enhancements services and people has enabled us to continue to grow our balance sheet and our fee-based businesses and gain market share.
U.S.
Banks performance metrics continue to be best in class.
We are focused on the future building our company to perform as we have in the past producing consistent predictable repeatable results for the benefit of our customers our employees our communities and our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Bill and I would now be happy to answer questions from our audience.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Yes good morning.
Hi Erika.
My first question is on the loan demand outlook for this year.
Richard its clear that your bank has been a market share taker over the past several years.
But as you look out into this year are we at an inflection point in terms of loan demand picking up based on what you are hearing from your corporate customers and the activity level that you may be seeing on the consumer side? Erika I believe thats true and Ill tell you what.
I think it maybe a tale of two halfs of the year.
I think 2014 starts well looking a lot like 2013 where people continue to husband cash and kind of a hold-off until they see some of the earlier spring sentiment that comes about and whether or not consumers are going to spend and therefore corporations are going to invest.
I will tell you as you know the first trigger in that transaction of people spending is the deposit actually going down and our deposits grow and Im glad they are for the extent that were getting more customers.
But to the extent that they use their deposits first theyll then use our line of credit second and they will extend more credits later in that cycle.
And were not seeing as much of that yet as we like to at the early stages.
The sentiment however is completely different.
The sentiment is stronger than its been in all these last Januarys people are much more willing to talk about future investments.
I think consumers are starting to think about doing things to add to their house or spend more money for improvements and may be some discretionary items they hadnt before.
And so my intuition tells me we're on the verge and advent of an increasing sentiment for consumer spending but I think we'll see it second half of the year and I think this spring will really tell the tale.
In our companies in order to offset the expected and predicted reduction in mortgage refinances we're continuing to spend energy on becoming a market share leader on purchases.
And we've also as you know introduced that we're doubling our indirect lending and leasing program over the next few years and even already we're seeing a significant increase in the auto loan volume that we would have otherwise at even over a year ago up over 30% from fourth quarter of 12.
So I believe that our ability to offset the mortgage and predicted mortgage change keep market share positions there and add other consumer products like small business credit card and indirect.
I think we're positioned quite nicely I just think its going to be the second half where you will see the most likely balance sheet impacts that will follow the sentiment we're hearing today.
Got it.
And as a follow-up question for Andy could you give us a sense of where you stand in terms of complying with the LCR proposals as they are currently written and how we should think about potential balance and margin impacts further balance of the year?  Yes thanks Erika.
There are still some questions with regard to the final roles and the interpretation but I'll tell you that we increased the securities portfolio to 80 billion in the fourth quarter and we are expecting to increase it to 85 billion by the end of the first quarter.
That will impact margin a few basis points similar what you saw this quarter and that again is our current expectation.
We're still working both sides of the balance sheet; the right and left hand side and working through the questions but right now 85 billion under quarter one.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Okay great.
So I just wanted to run through the discussion that you had it was pretty quick on the accounting changes may be you could help us understand why you chose to take the accounting changes at this quarter and then you have a follow up in first quarter.
So Betsy this is Andy.
So starting in the fourth quarter we moved the amortization of some guaranteed tax credits from tax expense to non-interest expense.
And then we also moved some third party share of losses we moved the entire third party share of losses on syndicated cash credits to non-interest expense where the related losses are reported.
And then finally in the first quarter of 2014 we're going to move some low income housing cost from expense to tax.
So the net of all that is what we talked about on page 10 the impacts you see there which lower our tax rate and increase our expense but you'll see a little bit of a reversal in the first quarter.
So when all said and done our TEB rate for next year will be about 29% and our expense in the first quarter we expect to be closer to what it was in the third quarter of this year.
Okay all right.
So this is really [fortune] is really a transitory towards a new normal which is similar to your old normal.
Correct thats correct Betsy.
Okay.
And then secondly I had a question on the [Amex] partnership that you announced recently.
I did want to just understand how you are planning on leveraging that and can you list the [Amex] partnership get to that closed loop for the carts that you would be working with them on to a greater degree than you even have?  Yes this is Richard.
Its a marketing and sponsorship partnership for our customers on the high wealth category who have many times said that they have both cards in their wallet.
They've got the U.S.
Bank Flex card but they also have the [Amex] card.
We also wanted to recognized this I am not trying to get into their close loop so it's not a transaction activity its not a system activity for U.S.
Bank its more of a brand.
So you will still have the U.S.
Bank branded [Amex] card for our top customers.
It will have the ability to have the very high end treatment that an [Amex] customer receives but also be able to do brand U.S.
Bank and receive some of the products and services they receive now as our top customers.
So its a little bit more than branding but its a lot less than anything more sophisticated than you might think as it relates to trying to work with closeloop or trying to change tracks if you will.
We'll still a VISA MasterCard originating company but for this very small core customers.
We actually think sometimes if you cant beat them join them and Amex has a particularly exceptional product its the very highest end for services even in and above the credit card needs of customer.
So I think it was the right thing to do.
Its not going to move the needle a lot but we're satisfied with the early stage announcement and I think our customers are happy with this as well.
Okay.
And then just while we are on card I know that on your website you are very vocal about the fact that you're tracking fraud and everything else but youve also been very vocal as a firm with regard to your taking fraud prevention forward so I dont know if you could comment at all on what you're thinking in a post target world around moving towards tokenization or EMV.
Yes I am a big supporter of progress in all those protective areas also as being mature to the clearing house we're working on tokenization and cloud use for some of those protections and encryption.
I guess what I would say to you is its disappointing that with the retailer fraud that's occurred it certainly is a burden on the banks because we have most of our customers as well that are affected if they use in this case some of those merchants that were affected.
And so we are moving to reproduce all new cards for those customers.
We are doing it through methodical process were those who had fraud or we know they had fraud or where they had fraud theyre getting card reissues immediately both credit and debit to the extent that we eventually track every customer who we think could have been affected by that time in period.
We are reissuing all of those cards.
We are not announcing it as a broad event were just indicating to our customers that as it goes we want to make sure they are protected and that their information is not in the open say a year from now when people aren't paying attention.
More germane to the issue Betsy is one of my concerns is chip at EMV is not necessarily the end point it's just another step in the journey.
And as you get to mobile banking and you look at cloud and the other encryptions it will be interesting to see whether or not we have to stop now and go back to chip EMV or if we really want to leap frog that and get to the more I think provocative outcome which is going to be the necessary standard not many years from now.
And whether the marketplace reacts and how they react to the breaches that have occurred at some of the more recent merchants is going to be yet to be seen.
So banks will be at the ready you know as the bank merchant partnership; merchants would have to change their terminals and their willingness to spend the money to have chip receiving cards.
We have to reissue cards on chip.
Every one of our customers who travels overseas has been getting a chip card for years because it's necessary over in Europe and some places in Canada.
But I think that story we told in the next couple of months.
Ask me again in April and we'll just see how it's settled but I think there is one [small dot] that says let's spend all of our energy on the more sophisticated endpoint of mobile banking and cloud encryption.
Others might say we havent got the time to waste let's jump to the chip step and we will end up getting to the other point a later.
We'll be open to either one because we're acquirer or an issuer or deep in the conversation.
There is other alternative even that I havent mentioned.
But we'll do this right whatever the marketplace wants and as banks have proven with merchants together we'll get the right answer because we all want customers supposedly.
Okay.
In terms of timeframe and spend from your perspective is it something that is obviously ongoing.
People had said that maybe the chip tokenization would be a three to five year timeframe.
Do you feel like that might be a little bit sooner and would we see any of this in the expense line or is it too small? Yes chip has a deadline of 2015 so it would be in the next couple of years.
It's more expensive to issue a chip card for sure than a magnetic stripe but it's not going to break anybody's back.
And the receipt is probably more of an issue on the merchant side where it will have to reprogram all of their terminals now I'm talking small businesses as well as the large merchants where they would have to change our terminals.
And some merchants buy those terminals so that's a fixed cost you have to change.
Many others would lease those terminals which might be a bit easier for that transition.
Those are the kind of fundamentals that will come through the economic review of this.
But you and I both know there will be a political and maybe a regulatory view of this that might change those outcomes and either force one solution or another based on the concerns from politicians and the protection of citizens or regulators' concerns for our consumer protection.
I think there is a lot of studying to be done because of the simple answer doesnt just go from one to the other because thats only one step in a longer journey.
But I do think in the next 90 days we'll have a better sense as it's settled and people decide where the risk is.
I'll close with this though to the extent that other information is not card related gets taken or the fraudulent operator have new information access to things that are more than card related we should all be quite concerned because at the end of the day the banks will bear the burden in most cases.
14 months from now one of my customers has been a victim of some fraud that's [going to involve] data that was taken from a card situation.
And all of a sudden my fraud levels are higher in the second quarter 2015.
I probably will never be able to trace it to any one circumstance that will just be a higher environmental risk if you like having more breakage off the shelves.
So we all have to be much smarter and we are spending a lot of time outside of the card area watching for fraud behaviors and watching and monitoring activities to protect customers.
What that means that is more customers are going to be have to be tolerant when a really good bank has the protection and first and foremost that says I just discovered fraud or potential fraud.
I disrupted your environment for a minute because I want to either change your account number or stop the transaction because I feel like youre going to be a victim if we dont stop it now.
I think the recent episode over the last couple of months might help consumers realize that their precaution really is worth a bit of disruption if it protects them in the long term.
So there is some good learning that will come out of this and I think banks and merchants should work together.
And you have in the past probably more in the future to protect customers and they can feel we all have their best interest.
It could be a while.
Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbach of Credit Suisse.
Thanks.
The question that I had is you talked about -- youve been able to improve the capital position of the company based upon the earnings even though you returned 65% of capital during the full year 2013.
How should we think about that I meant is that -- should that number be higher as we go forward I mean given that youve been able to actually do both? We've said for as long as I actually can remember that we would return 30% to 40% of our earnings in the form of dividends and 30% to 40% in the form of buybacks.
2013 the full year was 71% the quarter was 65% and so were in that low level range.
I will also say to you as a leading follow up question is as it relates to one of those two measures is currently limited by the federal reserve CCAR process at 30% and at this point were going to continue to abide by those general rules and follow the guidance that weve been given to stay at that perimeter itll be a time I hope that the fed will say certain banks have earned their permission to go back to along the dividends to be what they think is reasonable and supportable.
In that case we probably would float above that 30% level but were not eager to do it at this stage and we have plenty of room and opportunity on the buyback side and still stay within that range at 60-80%.
We like the 20% left for ourselves because we do be expect to be an acquirer we expect to take opportunities when something comes along particularly in trust or payment and Ill say theres a great deal of innovation and R&amp;D that were spending money on that much of which will eventually come to bear fruit some of it will prove that well learn what doesnt work but you actually in this environment now banks that used to be innovators and in this environment you want us to be you want us to be the leaders of fast followers and work with a lot of other companies and expertise that we might not necessarily have ever had in our legacy.
So 60 to 80 is right in the sweet spot where its 71 and I think right now where we are is a good indicator of where we'll be for 2014.
And Moshe I would add as we were at 86 in the third quarter dropping at 88 a good part of that increase was a reduction in the pension debit which as a reduction to capital the pension debit went down because rates went up.
So that's a onetime phenomenon and I would expect this in 2014 sort to be in that 8.5 range for most of the year.
Got you just kind of as a follow up on the idea Richard you touched on the idea of acquisitions and youve actually announced a branch acquisition recently whats the environment like for those types of acquisitions?  You know theyre still one up one up mostly I mean we are always interested in deepening our debt where we have a branch network so we like branches as you know and we are going to be probably a net grower small but net grower in the next year.
It might not be in exactly the same place we might be in partnerships with universities or grocery stores or things but we like adding branches and the opportunity to double down like in Chicago is worthwhile.
If any of our 25 states currently had an opportunity like that we would be interested.
I want you to know Im not interested in jumping states or getting a handful of branches in a state where you really have not critical mass or even in an NSA where you cant build enough distinctions to call out market leadership.
I also dont see us doing a full bank transaction unless the transaction is still attractive because of the risks Ive talked about before that align with picking up the problems and the legacy issues that you may not ever be able to know at due diligence and you simply cant price for.
So I think deals like branch related end market transactions and the two deals we highlighted in our earnings call here today fund services or even European businesses for payments or trust are things you can expect to see more of and we do have a number of toes in the water in those opportunities that none will move the needle but over time they add up.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt OConner at the Georgia Bank.
As you look at the payments business and the fee is worth about 3% year over year obviously the government fees was a drag but looking towards 2014 it should be much less of a drag from here.
How should we think about the revenue growth in that combined segment and I am thinking just the payment fees overall much as the government fees.
Right good question now so first this quarter you know we -- a lot of the merchant activities were in the same store sales and same store sales were up about 3% domestically and about 4% globally.
So Europe actually outdid the US in that regard.
We were way down this year by the government side of the equation as we said in the CARR government spend was down about 17% 18% year over year.
I think that will begin to stabilize next year and I think you should expect the total payments category to get closer to what is our normal long term growth there but not quite to that level till same store sales has to increase a point or two.
So the anchor that we saw this year on a corporate payment I think will begin to diminish as we get into 14.
Matt it's Richard just as a reminder you know the total payment space for us is about a quarter of our revenue corporate payments is about 20% of that quarter and government is about 20% of that space.
So its not a big driver but we like it were going to stay with it.
I dont believe that we have the same kind of future trajectory a negative trajectory that weve seen in the last two years of both the sequester and the ending of the work so for us we'll be glad we stayed with it we had it carried across the trends and at the same time mortgages fees were falling but I think that they both have some stability going into 2014 and I think well be glad we stuck with it but its not as big as it looks it's more of a headline but if were staying with it because I think it starts to turn the corner in 14.
Okay then just separately the Chicago branch deal have you talked about the -- either the potential earnings impact from that or Im sure there's both some cost savings and some investments that you might be making how all that nets out.
For 2014 Matt its not material to our number.
Okay.
But therell be a little branch consolidation but for that its really an opportunity to be more present in a really big city and what Im hoping for is that the synergies to the 100 branches we have will be as powerful as the ability to insight kind of new growth of the 100 that we're picking up and it will be just be a little more pervasive across Chicago and its a great market for us we've got great leadership there and we've actually kind of been managing over our sleeves a little bit in terms of our exposure our marketing and our visibility.
And I think we now have a chance to catch up to it and if I can grow more there Ill continue to do so.
I guess the infrastructure that you have now in the market and youve been doing that its all scalable there is not going to be an expense kind of ramp up as you okay.
No there will not be.
Yes so I was trying to say weve pretty much all the fixed costs were already there we are just going to add something nice to make it more visible.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller of FBR.
Thank you very much.
Going back to your loan portfolio one of the areas that youve really done a great job as your residential mortgages and I believe most of them are jumbos can you talk a little bit about and I think they are arms am I correct? How is the jumbo markets because were hearing that its very overheated definitely coming out of the west coast where a large banks out there competing very aggressively in that market? So Paul actually most of our growth is in a product called smart refinance in the high quality branch originated refinance product for our core customers and that is whats driving and a lot of that is a short it's not a 30-year product its a shorter product.
We are seeing a phenomenon occur just like youre seeing in the total mortgage business refinancing activity is starting to go down.
So that volume will start go down but on the flipside home equity line of credit activity is increasing.
So those are the trends I think youll start to see into the next few quarters.
Yes and we are active in the jumbo space we have done all long and its pretty much started it towards our private client type customer and many of those are arms.
So is that mainly coming out of your private client product mix what I guess.
A good chunk of it some of it comes out through the branches in states like California where you have such high home values.
And then on your securities portfolio you talk about that you want to grow that to about $85 billion what type duration with a new product with the new stuff coming on are you shooting for? While were keeping at pretty short about half floaters half fixed and you can think in the term of three and three half years.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
The question just big picture as far as revenue growth and operating leverage slide 6 of the deck shows that the year-over-year revenue growth has still been easily negative largely because the mortgage comps and the payments but as we look ahead and Richard to your point about getting the efficiency ratio back down towards the low 50s can you help us understand the dynamic? Do you think how close are we to the point of getting that year-over-year comp and revenues back deposit and then how also do you think expenses can kind of trend along with that? So you know we do kind of manage the company the governor is revenue and when we put our profit plan together late last year we worked from the bottoms up and we figured out what the revenue growth would be and as Ive told you before the plan would be the expenses will be less than that.
So I can tell you that our intent is to have positive operating leverage I wont take one quarter time because were fairly heavy second and third quarter positive and then without government in the fourth quarter we have that's fall off in quarter one and tougher quarter just because of New Year expenses.
But we are looking for positive operating leverage first and foremost Ken in 2014.
Now the other thing I said the quote for that though is since were not expecting revenue growth to be overlay robust we expect to be at least as good if not more what youve seen in the last year or two.
Were going to watch our expenses and we have a good run rate of expenses to start with.
We've been part of some regulatory consent order to mortgage which was a fairly expensive task that weve now used some of those monies and reallocated to other compliance activities.
We are not seeing an undue increase in expenses in order to run the company run safely but at the same token but for merit increases and necessary capital expenditures finishing what weve started.
This will be a year that we've left some of our investments follow through just on fruition and we wont start a lot of new things thats U.S.
Bank's way of logging expenses.
They dont cut expenses because we'd never get over our sleeves.
We dont go out and create an environment where we have consultants come in and give us a program and start reducing people our working force.
We typically just watch every single 30-day and make sure we dont do something that the revenue wont allow us to.
So you have to trust us.
Were going to continue to deliver positive operating leverage because it's how we grow the company it's how you end up making the success that you can count on predictable.
But as each month goes well adjust as we always do but I think were expecting revenue to be strong enough to allow for some expense growth.
So were going to watch our nickels and dimes until this environment is surely on its feet and there is a recovery well.
And we dont see that quite yet so were just going to watch everything we do.
I really appreciated the questions early on regarding the non-bottom line impact of the accounting changes we talked about with our -- some of our tax credits because we want you all to know thats not material its not all impactful to bottom line and its more of a landscape they should record it for.
We are committed to staying low in 50s and efficiency because were going to let revenue growth faster than expenses so nothing has changed I guess I am trying to say.
But for this little bit of blip were going to continue to deliver for you all but I'll say as over a year probably not this one when revenue is going to really take off for a lot of reasons and while the expenses were a little higher than they might this year but they are still well below that and the way to you alls heart is to keep efficiency positive and make sure operating leverage is the way you drive the bottom line and I am feeling pretty good about it.
Okay great.
And just a question within the expenses and one little one on the tax thing you mentioned Andy the benefit in the pension side on the capital side.
Are you going to see a pension benefit and is that built into your expectation for the first quarter expenses for this year? Yes and yes.
All right can you help us understand the magnitude of that? So the increase that we saw from 12 to 13 is going to almost go back to the level it was in 12 in terms of the pension expense.
It went up 140 million or so and it will go down about that same range.
Okay.
And then just on the last thing on the taxing.
So the minority interest piece I dont think you talked about that.
That kind of had been running at a minus 40.
So does that now also continue at the same plus 15 range given those changes? Yes there will be no further change in the minority interest piece.
So it is kind of safe from here.
Okay great.
And credit -- your comment about first quarter charge-offs being up and reserve releases a little bigger this quarter.
Can you just talk to us about how do you continue to expect any more reserve leads to go ahead? Yes we do -- we had strong improvement in credit in the fourth quarter and anticipate well have continued improvement in credit in the first quarter.
Losses will be up a little bit really not because of the charge-off side but really because of the wholesale recovery side.
Weve had some significant wholesale recoveries in the last few quarters and its unlikely that those will continue.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom of SunTrust Robinson &amp; Humphrey.
Just a couple of questions please.
The first is your GAAP assets look like they went up a little less than 1% but your Basel III risk-weighted assets went up a little over 1.5.
Can you just explain what accounted for the difference?  Commitments off balance-sheet commitments.
Got it.
Primarily lending commitments I assuming? Correct.
And as we talked about the fact that our commitment levels are growing more rapidly than our outstandings which is a good thing in the long-term and on a 10% annualized basis and thats a principle driver.
Great thank you.
And then you and several other institutions have announced the discontinuation of deposit advanced products.
What -- how should we think about the influence of that on either the fee or NII line items?  This is Richard I will go first.
I will let Andy talk about the financial impact.
Its not significant first of all but I am disappointed that the product has gone because it was probably the most popular customer product I think I ever had as a banker.
In that it was very transparent was very clear but it simply just didnt meet the [cadence] of the regulatory view of total API on a certain calculation and the general sense that people otherwise are being harmed.
So of course we moved along and followed the guidance and were now ending the product even at this month and well wind it down in the next couple.
What's I am more interested in is trying to find a replacement of such products so that we can find something for those consumers that will otherwise stay in the protected banking industry where there is over sight in protections which I support greatly.
And were working now with the regulators primarily the OCC to see if we can develop some kind of a replacement product.
Its too new to have that so we havent got that built into our plan.
So as we really expect there will be a second half loss and most of the impact falls to spread income but Ill leave Andy to give a little more dimension.
Right so as Richard said we would expect very little impact in the first half of the year given that our -- are going to continue with our current customers until mid-year.
In the second half of the year the product earns approximately $50 million a quarter because through a lot of these are net interest income.
And that would be the impact if the product in of itself on the way but as Richard mentioned were working on alternatives and well keep you updated on the impacts as we work through those alternatives.
Thanks and just following on and this is my last question.
Given the influence of this change as well as the liquidity guidance that you provided earlier in the call how should we now be thinking about the net interest margin over the next several quarters? Yes the net interest margin absent the CAA issue that we just talked about and the securities bill is relatively stable.
So the principle change will be the securities bill.
The securities bill impacts net interest margin the rate has no impact on net interest income at all.
It comes down with fairly neutral spreads.
So well continue to update you on that.
I would expect the build in the first quarter to impact just by about 3 basis points similar to what you saw in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Murray of ISI.
Could you just touch on the strength that youve had in the commercial products this quarter and the sustainability of that? So its across many categories.
We had a good quarter in high grade underwriting.
We had a good quarter in order of credit activity FX just across many categories.
I attribute this back to some of the investments we've made over the years in terms of building those capabilities both with people products and services and technologies.
So that is a real positive story for us and I would expect it to continue into 2014.
Every once in a while you get that moment you can actually prove something and so here we were three or four years ago talking about taking our wholesale bank and moving it from regional to national creating scale hiring people in New York and Charlotte.
And you'll say well one year we see the benefits this is a great example [indiscernible] of where thats starting to show up and coming in more consistent basis.
Weve always been a bank to a large number of large customers Fortune 100 customers but we always didnt have all the products and services.
The last few years weve got a chance to become more important in the syndicated line of credit we moved up in their view of being a trusted partner and now we get the fee businesses as well more often than we used to and thats exactly where this kind of benefit shows up years later.
Okay thanks.
And then can you give us some color on the magnitude of any equity gains for this quarter? It was minimal.
So if you look at the other income line you actually see an improvement but that was more a function of the third quarter having some negatives the fourth quarter was relatively neutral.
Okay thanks.
And then just lastly on the repurchase reserve and repurchase cost going forward.
How should we think about this "more normal run rate" for that line item? Yes.
So we have the 753 million with Freddie here in the fourth quarter and were down to a level that -- we're probably still a little bit higher than what we would be over the long term but were starting to get to a level that I think is more normal in terms of historic level.
So were not quite there but its going to be a material change on a go forward basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Mutascio of KBW.
Andy first Ive got a quick question for you on expense given the guidance for a first quarter being closer in line with previous third quarter does that imply that there was a good bit of pull forward of business development and marketing expenses that occur this quarter? No not necessarily a pull forward its just a seasonal impact that we typically see.
So if you look at the expense increase from third quarter to fourth quarter about half of it was the tax related and then about half of it was things like legal and professional and marketing and expense.
And if you look at our history Chris youll see that the fourth quarter is seasonally higher in those categories and then seasonally comes down in the first quarter.
Okay thats fair.
Bill my question for you is could we see going back to the reserves for a little bit and I think I ask question almost every time I see you can we see the pace of reserve releases actually pick up from here? Its been pretty steady around $30 million to $35 million or so.
I mean I had a bank yesterday that released more reserves in terms of taking the reserve ratio down in one quarter than you guys have done in four quarters.
And BofA now has a lower reserve ratio than you do.
So I was kind of wondering given the continuing improvement in credit quality could the pace of the reserve releases pick up in 14? Yes Ill speak for our bank right.
I dont think so.
What were down what were left with is really improvement in residential mortgage and home equity.
Those are really the only two portfolios where there is still work to be done in terms of the fallout from the recession.
So absent that I would say were steady as you go for the moment but there is probably not loss of reserve release.
This is Richard.
One thing I hope you guys like about is were not that interesting and volatile and it's a great example.
We didnt have anywhere near the same credit issues in the first place.
We didnt have to build the reserves in the first place and weve been very steady and methodical and thoughtful all in line with regulator views and accounting views to make sure that were not living on and counting on these reserve releases and you shouldnt either because its not sustainable.
I think youll see a lot more of what weve done in the past it's how we get to a point of stability where all of a sudden and were all going to start having reserve releases.
And in a forward view there should be a day when banks have growing loans balance sheet is growing and were adding to our reserves at a level equal to and higher than the current day because those are for future loan charge-offs.
So I think were probably closest to most of new basic inflection point but this year we'll have a little bit more but we havent relied on it because at this point were not counting on it to get through this year or the next one.
Rich I kind of agree with you but it just gets a little frustrating when I see bank stocks go up on reserve releases and you guys are more prudent going for the full cycle and you dont get credit for the quality of earnings but in any event thats a I hadnt noticed.
If I can just follow up one with Bill so from your comments it seems like the new belief that reserve for loan ratio for your individual bank will be higher than it was previous to the crisis whether its from the re-regulatory process or what have you so whether it was one in a quarter to 150 previous to the cycle were going to be somewhat higher than that? Right the first thing is you have to look at the difference and mix so and we do have a fairly large card portfolio relative to the size of our balance sheet relative to our peers.
So thats obviously going to keep parts a little higher.
And then again as Richard said we just didnt go up as much so were just not going to go down as much.
With that Chris over the course of time 1.53 charge-off right we think over the course of time the long time this bank is a 1% charge-off and with FAS 114 in other areas we want to make sure we stay aligned with that and for investors we think to the extent we can stay within the balance of all the rules and not create these volatilities that were occurred at giving away too much than build it back when we dont need it.
But again the line with rules and regulation we would love to stay as steady as we can and have the appropriate level.
It actually serves another form of capital if you have a good reserve portfolio for loans that could go bad but for reasons we all know I dont think any bank is under where there are long term run rate will beneath them we know in the last few years if we didnt take risks as an industry on loans when we shouldnt have but we probably have record low position and we are going to start building that back.
So dont anyone be disappointed when charge-off rates start to move up provision releases stop and provision build starts thats actually a pretty good sign that we're all getting back to doing what were supposed to do which is make loans to qualified people and every once in a while one doesnt get paid back.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Scinicariello of UBS.
I just want to circle back to the Chicago branch acquisition for a moment.
I'm just curious as you kind of look at the long-term potential opportunity there do you see the greatest potential benefit over the long-term from ramping up loan growth or cross-selling and further penetrating a customer base in that market? Just kind of curious how you look at that long-term potential benefit where is the biggest source of opportunity for you? Steve good question.
If we had had our druthers we started from the bottom we would always be top one two or three in every market in terms of consumer small business and wealth management.
First of all because you're pervasive enough to matter you are in someones life at where they are near their work near their home in between and now on mobile technology; you are pervasive to them thats our goal.
I am not kind of get out of markets where I am sixth or seventh that we are still good for the shareholders but I would love to move up in every market to top three.
Chicago is going to take a while so were are going to move up now at seventh or eighth.
In terms of branch distribution we might get in the top five and we can find other deals to couple together maybe more grocery partners and things we could get into the top three or four thats really what we are headed towards then the scale matters.
Right so every time I run an ad in the Chicago Tribune and we do something on mobile technology or Chicago land we do a sponsorship of something and partner with the city or some of the suburbs then all this go so much further and so much deeper and so much better.
Employees are more enthused we get more of a kind of a reputation build.
And its one of the greatest cities in the country so its also worth investing there for a long-term because its pretty loyal market.
So for us its a step towards getting into top most pervasive companies and the two or three really really big companies that are legacy and we are legacy in a couple of other big markets and legacy always has to worry that they are going to get old and become part of a kind of an old-fashioned paradigm and we are going to try to protect ourselves when we are really big and when we are not big we are going to be that really vicious competitor that comes up and tries to reset the paradigm and get people to pay attention to our self.
This deal was perfect on all accounts financially it just accrues because its scale and because it allows us to extend in a market thats going to grow because Chicago will grow.
Well makes total sense but I know you said you are more than willing to look at more of these types of transactions in other markets.
The question I have is do you think you might get the opportunity? Just curious what your thoughts might be on that.
I know more -- I think we're considered a disciplined buyer and so the deals you will never know are the ones that came and went because we said there is no way we are going to pay that for that.
But every once in a while one comes along where the motivations of the seller and our interest is high the price is good for both parties including all the shareholders and this is one of those that came together.
So we if those circumstances align again we'll do more of these deals because we think its the right way to take advantage especially in an unfinished kind of unsettled market where until things are normal again some people have the need to shed assets others like us will be interested in acquiring assets where it make senses and kind of jumpstart the organic trip that otherwise happens in normal time.
So if we dont do another deal the branches will be fine but if more come along on these terms we'll take them.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo of CLSA.
I was trying to gauge your conviction level that loan growth is coming back.
On the one hand Richard you're expressing optimism that we've heard from several other bank CEOs on the other hand what I think I heard you guys say is that loan utilization declined down to 23% that your customers aren't drawing down their deposits which is a leading indicator that you don't expect a whole lot of loan growth the next quarter or two and that you yourselves are still watching your nickels and dimes a lot given some uncertainty.
So I know you've been more conservative than most over the years and we're all trying to figure out the pace of loan growth.
What sort of leading indicator is sentiment or is this just informal? Is this a gut feel? Just any other color on loan growth.
Yes so Mike Erikas question number one I think I said it was a tale of two halves and I was confessing that it's solely sentiment from my customers and my bankers that tells me that things are better than they have been.
It is not on the balance sheet it is not evidential at all which is why we do not agree with you that first deposit get used then lines that are already outstanding get used and then new lines get created and we havent seen any of that.
So it is purely sentiment and perhaps its a lot of just pent-up long overdue demand to get things move moving.
But sentiment is always the leading indicator right and so I think as I said before Spring will tell this story more than most springs and the second half will be what the sentiment yields as will results or it will be nothing more than sentiment and we'll be talking in April and again in July as seen -- well at least we see at least consistent loan growth of the 6% plus annualized loan growth we've been doing it through the whole recession the only reason we cant keep doing it.
But at the same time youve heard us before we are not going to compete on term on structure we are going to compete on rate and we can continue to do that and the rates are seeing a little bit at compression.
So we'll be thoughtful about it but you repeated what I said which is its simply sentiment I dont have evidence yet.
And when the evidence starts the best news I'll have for you is the deposits are drawing down lines are getting used and people are starting to show an interest and be involved.
I said before too that I do think that perhaps different than almost any other recovery coming from a recession that people will not be -- the consumer that blinks first it will be the businesses meaning that the consumer is not going to evidence like it always has a real strong sense that we are now ready get ready we are going to buy.
I think the businesses are going to have to find a way to incentivise that interest they can incentivise the product at creations or innovation or pricing and start pulling consumers across to start investing.
As long as they invest consumers are starting to feel better and the products are more interesting and the pricing is more attractive I think thats the magic that will pull this one out that for the first time I think businesses will drive through this recovery it really has a lot to do with their behaviours in and above whatever spend and we are hearing from consumers.
And one follow up you talked about the trade-off between price and loan growth and as a low cost producer you can probably afford to charge lower rates on the loans but you have seen compression across the board on your loans.
Are you close to a tipping point where you say hey we shouldnt charge a whole lot less or as long as youre growing some NII its okay? I would say our pricing is going to be relatively stable Mike on a go forward basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
Just I guess to focus on one area of loan growth specifically it looked like commercial real estate outstandings were rising at a faster pace in the fourth quarter than they have on a year-over-year basis.
We've heard from a number of competitors particularly in the southeast that that is a growing area of competition.
Whats your sense in your markets as to the demand for commercial real estate opportunities and looking into 2014 and how competitive has the pricing gone? I will start with demand.
I mean we have seen pretty good demand on the coast and in the southeast as you mentioned that was our -- the southeast was our fastest growing market in the fourth quarter.
And we have heard from our clients that they are seeing more demand for their product whether its storage or build to suite more than just the multifamily that weve seen in the past several quarters.
So we are seeing a pickup in demand which is positive and then on the pricing I think to the extent there has been pricing compression I think thats mostly behind us.
I think the pricing is fairly stable right now.
So we saw good demand in the fourth quarter and expect to continue next year.
Then if I can follow up with a question on the capital market side Richard youve been obviously been quite correctly optimistic particularly for your own business over the last couple of years; as we head into a higher rate cycle there is concerns I think across the broader market that demand for fixed income underwriting may come down a little bit demand potentially conversely for equity underwriting may increase.
How are you looking at that business heading into 2014 in terms of some of the bigger picture trends that are affecting interest rates? You know Matt I think; I still see 14 looking a lot like 13.
Youve got leverage lending and middle market activity still pretty high.
Youve got syndicated issuance still getting better over time primarily refinancing and that refinancing as opposed to new transactions creates a bit of a downward pressure on yields.
We've got loan growth looking seasonally best in the western markets and particularly seasonally high including some of the retail groups.
As it relates to more traditional lending thats where we would see and expect it by the way everything is performing as we thought it was just kind of slow annuity like as it relates to the more sophisticated transactions what we are seeing in the capital markets are particularly a deal event action oriented items where someone wants to buy another company or make a particular transaction in the market to create some additional financing and we are there now where we didnt use to be.
And we can handle those activities but kind of following the conversation with Mike the sentiment isnt necessarily any stronger than it was to generate a sense that thats going to be different in 14 but it's not worse than it was in 13.
It just seems to be kind of a slow steady part of that recovery and I think the very high end of the market reflects exactly what the low end is which is careful thoughtful event driven by taking advantage when the chance comes along.
And the whole economy is still uneven so there are people who have something they want to get rid of and there are others who find value in it and thats kind of where we are until we see something more predictable.
Bill you want to add to that?  Well I think you know in terms of the capital markets activity I think 13 was obviously a very good year for refinancing and higher rates may moderate that a little bit but there is still a lot of acquisition activity and that will clearly generate bond activity.
So we anticipate that we'll benefit from that.
Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby of Guggenheim.
Good morning as you can imagine most of the questions have been asked but I have two technical questions I wanted to follow up on.
You had mentioned in the tax line that there was a state benefit I think.
What was the magnitude of that this quarter? It impacted the rate by about 1% Marty.
Okay.
And then lastly on the mortgage repurchase reserves there was a change in reserve of about $30 million.
Was that geography and thats a benefit or a reduction of expenses thats probably in other expenses is that correct? Its actually an increase in mortgage revenue and its a reassessment of reserve levels every quarter and its just that what we think is the appropriate level and thats reflected in mortgage revenue.
Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush of NAB Research LLC.
LLC</strong> Question youve had a great deal of success over the past few years with your loan production offices outside of your traditional banking markets.
And could you just speak to what percentage of your commercial revenues are now coming out of those offices and are there plans for expansion in to other markets? Nancy do you mean for the middle market or in corporate? LLC</strong> Yes.
Okay.
So we have what we call an adjacent state program.
So for instance we have our folks in one market managing Michigan and managing Pennsylvania we have others managing Indiana and managing Georgia.
And thats worked quite well for us.
So what weve done is we have a local in footprint management team that has people also in adjacent space where we have enough of a reputation a halo we have people know who we are.
At the middle market level if you dont have branches you have to be valuable to these folks in a different way because you have to get them up on more than cash management treasury management products and some of the servicing it would be more technical and more mobile.
Thats how were having success there.
Its probably 4% to 5% of our total.
Its not a very big number.
Its not intended to be because I do think it gives certain level as you get to the point where you have branches.
On the larger end we can do business in all 50 states because the corporate customers its not even in the first three questions of whether or not you have branches nearby theyre not looking for that from a -- and so were a full on national provider in both corporate and commercial real estate.
But as it relates to middle market its probably 4% to 5% impact on our total and unless and until we were to find a very large branch acquisition in an adjacent space its going to stay that way because we are just going to really drill down where people knows us best and have the ability if they want us to use our services on the ground.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran of Autonomous Research.
Hi good morning just a couple of quick follow ups on the commitment growth you saw I know every business is different every line is different.
But is there any kind of historical rule of thumb you would look to for the typical lag between commitments turning into funded balances? Yes this is Bill.
I would say we sort of exceeded the historical lag.
So normally by this time in an expansionary period you will be seeing these lines being drawn more than they are today.
I mean some of our categories are down 10% in terms of normal utilization levels.
So I think were still all anticipating when this confidence turns into investment.
Yes I would agree with that.
And I would say that -- surprisingly theyre all down a lot very much the same in terms of traditional history commercial real estate which is the last in last out in terms of problems and in terms of growth and thats probably the same in this cycle.
But if you get anything from small business to commercial real estate specialty products through community banking theyre all down in fact even more I mean bill our collective utilization for the wholesale credits for this company was at 38% kind of level and were at 23% and thats on well over $100 billion so thats in its own right is just a huge place built at the right were in places weve never been theres nowhere to go but up but in the next month if we go down again well say one more time.
But I like the fact that its pent up opportunity it is even better its one step better than in an unknown line or loan at this stage because these are people paying for it theyre paying us to have first have a line they want have the access to it the fact they keep growing lines over 11% last year such that they are planning to do something and that kind of feeds my sentiment issue my answer with Mike Mayo which is actually that number get stronger not weaker.
So weve got a lot of canaries in the mine theyre all chirping but nothing is happening yet.
Thats very helpful.
On the commercial products I guess as a follow up or clarification when I think I heard you say '14 should look a lot like 13'.
We should be working off the 13 full year base not the run rate from the fourth quarter for that line item right? Correct.
And then lastly just as I think about capital and I guess it touches on the question I think Erika asked RWA growth versus asset growth.
I mean when I look at some of the other super-regionals who are in that advanced approach bucket mega regionals whatever you want to call them.
RWAs have been falling even if assets have been growing for the past two to three quarters.
And I wonder is that a pent up opportunity for U.S.
Bank or because some of your peers have more punitive noninvestment grade securities and things like that are they just reversing out of capital penalty you never had to begin with? I cant tell you what others are doing.
I will tell you ours is pretty straight forward.
First of all while were in advanced approach purchase bank the ratio were giving you is a standardized approach because that is your binary constraint that is the lower ratio.
So its a pretty simple equation its basically commitments that are causing the off balance sheet growth.
And your next question comes from the line of John McDonald of Sanford Bernstein.
Morning guys two quick follow-ups.
Andy on net interest income -- you mentioned the net interest margin outlook for the first quarter.
Do you hope to grow the net interest income dollars just the balance sheet still growing but you might have some seasonality in terms of the account pressure I guess.
What would be outlook for the net interest income dollars? Good question John.
All things been equal I would expect to be relatively stable but the first quarter has two fewer days than the fourth quarter.
And that in of itself cost us about $30 million - $35 million.
Okay -- otherwise you expect it to be flattish? Pretty close yes.
Okay and then on the expenses you gave the outlook for the first quarter would you expect the expenses to be declining from the first quarter.
In other words are there seasonal items that fight the first quarter expenses as well? No I would say the first quarter is sort of a normal quarter in terms of activity.
There are some things that are higher like FICO expense some things that are lower like legal and professional.
But overall it's relatively representative.
Okay.
So to the extent the first quarter efficiency ratio its below the -- its really the seasonal pressure on some of the fee income lines? Yes the first quarter is a seasonally low quarter in terms of fees particularly in payments business card and merchant.
It's the lowest quarter of the year.
There is no holiday we got the pay downs on the credit cards so it's always our [weak company] quarter.
But thats when things pick up in quarters two and three.
Okay thanks guys.
Your final question comes from the line of Kevin Barker of Compass Point.
Could you talk about the non-QM market? Do you expect to participate in it and if so do you expect it to have an incremental uptick in residential loan growth on your balance sheet? We are going to participate in the non-QM market and much of it is very similar to what we do today.
So again we do offer today interest only loans to private client type customers.
We do offer lower loan to value loans that might not meet the 43% debt to income in the QM.
So on a go forward basis it doesnt have a material impact on types of loans that were going to be putting on in balance sheet.
Thats right.
And QM-related you're going to find Kevin that we really dont have any kind of impact at all to our origination.
Would you change anything about the product whether it's term or rate in order to take into account the risk associated with non-QM lending? No I mean we recognize the risk and we've mitigated it with either higher down payments in general wealthier customers that type of thing.
So we believe that we have the offset built into the underwriting.
Thank you.
This is Judy back again.
Thanks everyone for listening to our call today and with that if you do have any follow-up questions certainly feel free to call myself or Sean O'Connor and we will hopefully touch base.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in todays fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 12 O'clock PM EST today through 11:59 PM EST on Wednesday January 29 2014.
The conference ID number for the replay is 137-716-72.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 137-716-72.
The number to dial for the replay is 1855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
Thank you.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to U.S.
Bancorps First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorps Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today approximately at noon EDT through Wednesday April 23 at 12:00 oclock midnight EDT.
I will now turn the conference call over to Sean OConnor Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Tiffany and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorps first quarter 2014 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during our prepared remarks.
A copy of this slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during todays call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of todays presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sean and good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining our call.
Ill begin our review of U.S.
Banks results with a summary of the quarters highlights on Page 3 of the presentation.
U.S.
Bank reported net income of $1.4 billion for the first quarter of 2014 or $0.73 per diluted common share.
Total average loans grew year-over-year by 6% and as expected 1.3% or 5.2% annualized on a linked quarter basis.
We experienced strong loan growth  strong growth in total average deposits of 5.1% over the prior year and 0.2% linked quarter.
Credit quality remained strong.
Total net charge-offs decreased by 21.2% from the prior year and rose modestly on a linked quarter basis as expected due to the unusually high wholesale recoveries in the prior quarter.
Non-performing assets excluding covered assets declined linked quarter by 1%.
We continue to generate significant capital this quarter.
Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio estimated for the Basel III fully implemented standardized approach was 9% at March 31.
We repurchased 12 million shares of common stock during the first quarter which along with our dividend resulted in a 67% return of earnings to our shareholders in the first quarter.
Slide 4 provides you with a 5-quarter history of our performance metrics and they continue to be among the best in the industry.
Return on average assets in the first quarter was 1.56% and return on average common equity was 14.6%.
Moving over to the graph on the right you can see that this quarters net interest margin was 3.35%.
Andy will discuss the margin in more detail in just a few minutes.
Our efficiency ratio for the first quarter was 52.9%.
We continue to manage our operating expenses effectively and in line with revenue trends.
We expect that this ratio will remain in a low 50s going forward and as we continue to manage expenses in relation to revenue trends while continue to invest in and grow our businesses.
Turning to Slide 5.
The company reported total net revenue in the first quarter of $4.8 billion a 1.2% decrease from the prior year and 1.5% decrease from the previous quarter.
The decline in revenue year-over-year was largely driven by lower mortgage banking revenue while the linked quarter variance reflected normal first quarter seasonality within our business lines.
Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on Slide 6.
Average total loans outstanding increased by over $13 billion or 6% year-over-year and 1.3% linked quarter.
Overall excluding covered loans a run-off portfolio average total loans grew by 7.6% year-over-year and 1.7% linked quarter.
Once again the increase in average loans outstanding was supported by strong growth in average total commercial loans which grew by 8.5% year-over-year and 2.8% over the prior quarter.
Total average commercial real estate also increased over the prior quarters with average loans growing by 7.6% year-over-year and 1.9% linked quarter.
Residential real estate loans continue to show strong growth 14.4% year-over-year and 1.7% over the prior quarter.
Within the retail loan category average credit card loans and auto loans and leases were higher both year-over-year and linked quarter while average home equity lines and loans continue to decline.
The rate of decline in this category however has slowed considerably over the past few quarters.
We continue to originate and renew new loans and lines for our customers new originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments totaled approximately $35 billion in the first quarter.
Total average revolving commercial and commercial real-estate commitments continue to grow at a faster pace than loans increasing year-over-year by 11.7% and 3.4% on a linked quarter basis.
Line utilization remains at low levels and was approximately 23% in the first quarter.
Total average deposits increased by over $12 billion or 5.1% over the same quarter of last year.
On a linked quarter basis average deposits increased by 0.2% with growth in low cost savings deposits particularly strong on a linked quarter basis.
Turning to Slide 7 in credit quality.
Total net charge-offs declined 21.2% on a year-over-year basis and rose modestly on a linked quarter basis due to unusually higher wholesale recoveries in the prior quarter.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 0.59% in the first quarter.
Non-performing assets excluding covered assets decreased by 1% on a linked quarter basis and 11.6% from the first quarter of 2013.
During the first quarter we released $35 million of reserves equal to the reserve released in the previous quarter and $5 million more than the first quarter of 2013.
Given the mix and quality of our portfolio we currently expect net charge-offs and total non-performing assets to remain relatively stable in the second quarter of 2014.
Andy will now give you few more details about our first quarter results.
Thanks Richard.
Slide 8 gives you a view of our first quarter 2014 versus comparable time periods.
Our diluted EPS was $0.73 was equal to the first quarter of 2013 and $0.03 lower than the previous quarter.
The key drivers of the companys first quarter earnings are summarized on Slide 9.
The $31 million or 2.2% decrease in net income year-over-year was principally due to a decrease in mortgage banking revenue partially offset by lower provision for credit losses.
Non-interest income was essentially flat year-over-year as the increases in average earning assets was offset by a decrease in net interest margin.
The $12.2 billion growth in average earning assets year-over-year included increases in average total loans as well as planned increases in securities portfolio.
Offsetting the portion of the growth in these categories was $6.1 billion reduction in average loans held for sale reflecting lower mortgage origination activity versus the same quarter of last year and a $3.8 billion reduction in average other earning assets primarily due to the reconsolidation of a number of community development entities in the second quarter of 2013.
The net interest margin of 3.35% was 13 basis points lower than the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to growth in the investment portfolio and lower rates on loans partially offset by lower rates on deposits and short-term borrowings and a reduction in higher cost long-term debt.
Non-interest income declined by $57 million or 2.6% year-over-year primarily due to lower mortgage banking revenue which reflected lower origination and sales revenue.
Growth in several fee categories partially offset the decline in mortgage banking revenue including growth in retail payments merchant processing trust and investment management fees deposit service charges commercial products revenue investment product fees and other income which was driven by higher equity investment revenue.
Non-interest expense increased year-over-year by $74 million or 3% the increase was primarily the result of higher compensation expense and an increase in other expense which was driven by insurance related recoveries in the first quarter of 2013 partially offset by lower tax-advantaged project cost and lower cost related to other real estate loan.
Net income was lower on a linked quarter basis by $59 million or 4.1% mainly due to seasonally lower fee revenue partially offset by lower non-interest expense.
On a linked quarter basis net interest income was lower due to the impact of two fewer days and seasonally lower loan fees partially offset by higher average earning assets.
The net interest margin of 3.35% was 5 basis points lower than the fourth quarter principally due to growth and lower rate investment securities loan mix and lower loan fees.
On a linked quarter basis non-interest income was lower by $48 million or 2.2%.
This unfavorable variance was primarily due to seasonally lower retail payments and deposit service charges as well as lower commercial products revenue.
Partially offsetting the decline in these revenue categories was an increase in corporate payments trust and investment management fees and other income which was driven by higher equity investment and retail leasing revenue.
On a linked quarter basis non-interest expense declined by $138 million or 5.1% driven by lower professional services costs costs related to tax-advantaged projects and marketing and business development costs.
Turning to Slide 10.
Our capital position is strong and continues to grow.
Beginning January 1 2014 the regulatory capital requirements effective for the company follow Basel III subject to certain transition provisions from Basel I over the next four years to full implementation by January 1 2018.
Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio estimated using Basel III fully implemented standardized approach at March 31 was 9% up from 8.8% at December 31.
At 9% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement.
Our tangible book value per share rose to $14.99 at March 31 representing an 13% increase over the same quarter of last year and a 4% increase over the prior quarter.
In March we received the results of our 2014 Comprehensive Capital Assessment Review the CCAR including the Federal Reserves non-objection to our capital plan.
Subsequently we announced our new one year buyback authorization totaling $2.3 billion effective April 1 and our intention to recommend to our board of directors a 6.5% increase in our common stock dividend at our June Board Meeting.
Now Ill turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Andy.
And to conclude our formal remarks I turn your attention to Slide 12.
Extending the advantage words from the cover of our annual reports that appropriately describe our strategy for 2014.
In this slow growth economy our prudent risk management efficient operating platform with industry leading profitability allow us to operate commutation strength.
We will continue to manage invest and innovate to further extend this advantage.
Yesterday I had the privilege of leading our Annual Shareholder Meeting in Kansas City.
In addition to conducting the official business of the meeting I told our shareholders how proud I am of what our 67 000 remarkable employees have accomplished and how engaged they are and helping us to be competing to our success.
We remain focused on always producing consistent predictable and repeatable results for the benefit of our customers our employees our communities and our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Bill and I would now be happy to answer questions from the audience.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Jon Arfstrom of RBC Capital Markets.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Jon.
Richard can you give us an update on some of your loan growth expectations and maybe touch a little bit on [inaudible] changes in terms of whats driving some of the commercial growth? Be happy to.
Thanks Jon.
First of all as you see our linked quarter was 1.3% and we have been saying were in that range of 1% to 1.5%.
Based on our ending period not just our average and based on what were seeing Ill expect that range to continue at quarter two at the high end.
So were actually seeing some slight [inaudible] continued improvement along the way.
Now were seeing it across the board so wholesale as youve seen in the last many quarters has been driving the majority of that and that continues leverage lending in middle market remain mostly active as well as loan growth in the western markets particularly the Western United States for wholesale and then seasonal increases in food ag and in the retail groups.
So were seeing seasonality and continued market share growth which is not going to be stunning but at the high end of 1 to 1.5 that continue to show a trajectory and we think market share improvement.
Commercial real estate Jon strong on both coasts as it has been in the past both East and the West as well as Texas particularly in new construction and some investment decisions being made by some of our customers.
The most active cities are Seattle San Francisco LA and Orange County so that stays pretty much West Coast focused.
This quarter we have strong loan production in small businesses up almost 30% over last years first quarter thats all types of small business particularly for those under $250 000 and SBA itself was up more than 50% over the last years same quarter.
So were seeing small business and I think something slightly more than what you might expect to see in seasonality.
Residential mortgages we said is off from its record highs but the portfolio continues to grow.
Home equity while we see that continuing to be the softest spot as we are sliding to get enough acquisition to offset the runoff we had a very strong March which takes me some good hope in this second quarter particularly as we introduce some new programs and some pricing in order to encourage that behavior in the spring.
And then lastly auto loans and credit cards theyre both growing.
As you know we indicated a number of quarters ago that were going to double our auto loan production in the indirect auto loan and lease and we are doing just that were right on track.
And to give you an idea our quarter one production for this last quarter was up 33% from the same time last year and we continue to see our rankings and market share starting to move as we hope that it would.
And in credit cards the year-over-year also stronger credit up 9% debit up 6% and prepaid up over 20%.
So I would say it continues to give me optimism that we can stay on the high end of that range and continue to see that getting stronger.
I know last quarter I said we think that second half will be stronger than the first half we still believe that as well.
And Ill close with one my reasons for that belief is I think the Fed in their current messaging continues to allow people to believe that were getting closer and closer to the moment in time when rates will move up.
And I think our customers are starting to demonstrate behavior and getting really prepared for that moment and eventually they will use these unused lines of credit theyll use their deposits and theyll start getting more lines on loans to I think accommodate that growth which is probably a few years out but may starting at the last half of 2014.
How is that for a brief answer to a quick one? Thats wonderful.
I dont want to hog the time on the call here but just one more thing and maybe its related but in terms of the capital plan in the building your capital ratios and the 60% to 80% range what is the plan for the capital thats not returned to shareholders? Do you want to continue to build capital on the balance sheet? Is this  are you just signaling that maybe there is a little bit faster growth coming theres more acquisitions coming? Just help us understand whether or not you want capital to build or not and how you plan to utilize the excess? Hi Jon.
This is Andy.
First if you think about the fourth quarter to the first quarter part of the reason that  two reasons for the increase number one is our unrealized loss went to an unrealized gain position with our securities portfolio because theyre lower rates and that will change by about $300 million.
The second thing is partly offsetting our buybacks in the first quarter was an exceptionally high level of stock exercise stock option exercises from our employee base I wouldnt expect it to continue at that level.
So my expectation Jon is that this is sort of the highpoint our normal earning asset growth loan growth that Richard spoke to as well as our expected closure of the RBS transaction the branches will drive that down in quarters two and three.
And big picture what will accommodate the reinvestment is our earning asset growth.
The only thing to add Jon we dont [like] [ph] capital so were real careful about that as you know.
And in addition to what Andy said we want to continue to have a little powder for acquisition you saw we did a small [indiscernible] with Ally Custodian Trust on Monday and well continue to look for particularly payment and trust opportunities and we are still investing a lot I mean the one thing were not doing and it be easy to do in times whenever things are not as sustainable is stop the investment in things like R&amp;D.
And our payments business particularly mobile were spending a lot of time and energy and money getting sure that we have the best ideas the next new emerging protocol for customers and were not cutting back on those investments in this case because we think its going to be important to stay true to that.
So the retained earnings well use for ourselves as well small acquisitions.
Okay.
All right.
That helps.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Good morning.
Hi Erika.
Good morning Erika.
My first question Andy I was wondering if you could give us an update on where you stand with regards to the LCR and how we should think about securities purchases from here? And maybe help us understand how earning assets grows as youre [growing] [ph] to pace relative to the loan growth expectations that you laid out? Right.
So Erika as we talked about in the last call we did increase our securities portfolio from $80 billion to $85 billion in quarter one.
My expectation is we will grow that to $90 billion in quarter two so up somewhere similar amount another $5 billion.
Were getting very close in terms of our target here but were  Im not going to give you a final number until we get a final role because the final role has some uncertainty particularly as it relates to the offset on municipal deposits and that can draw our number one way or the other but were getting very close but I would expect another $5 billion in quarter two.
As it relates to net interest margin I would expect a decrease that you saw this quarter similar in the second quarter for some of the same reasons.
So that $5 billion increase in securities portfolio will probably drive margin down 3 to 4 basis points and the combination of loan fees and mix will be another couple of basis points.
So I would expect a similar decline in quarter two.
However because were growing earning assets I would expect net interest income to grow in quarter two.
And given sort of your comments I know there is still the swing factor is the liquidity built in the second half potentially slower than the pace for the first half for the year? Again Erika it will depend on the final role as we hope to get in the summer months but I wouldnt expect it to accelerate certainly and it will somewhere around the same level or down.
The other thing I would remind you one of the things we talked about also is that CAA or Checking Account Advance product will start to impact margin because that fee goes to loan fees which is a component of margin that will start to diminish over the second quarter and then more materially in quarters three and four.
Got it.
And my second question Richard if I could just ask another one on commercial real estate in particular.
Weve had comments from a large mega-cap bank some large institutions during the quarter that commercial real estate continues to be a potential bright spot and that the competition is less fervent here than it is for C&amp;I.
On Monday we heard from another regional bank essentially saying that theyre starting to see frothiness in commercial real estate.
Perhaps give us a little bit of your view on this.
Yes sure.
I dont have any remarkable offers I would necessarily align with Mondays commentary.
Weve always been growing commercial real estate I think this past weve done in a very prudent way.
We were the ones I think alerting people eight quarters ago about certain markets that were getting sloppy as it related to multifamily as you start to intersect that with what would be for our closed property were coming back on to the market.
So weve been very very careful not to jump into hard markets that when you predict where there will be once everything is built probably too overbuilt.
So weve been careful there.
I wouldnt say that we were less competitive I would say all of our wholesale businesses are competitive.
I would certainly think margin competition and as I said every quarter and I will continue to say because of our cost of funds advantage in our rating and if this will continue to compete on price and we can maybe one of those culprits for why its more competitive on the margins but we will not give it out if its a great customer.
We will also not go for the customer if there is a structural need to diminish what would be a quality underwriting or something like that.
So I guess I would say I dont see anything remarkable about CRA as it relates to other C&amp;I business Erika but theyre both competitive and more prepared to compete for them.
Got it.
And just a last question and maybe this is for Andy.
Was there anything unusual to call out on the mortgage banking line there is a modest quarter-over-quarter increase in given typical seasonality.
I think the market would have expected that to be down sequentially.
Was there anything to call out there? Erika we thought mortgage revenue was going to be relatively flat to the fourth quarter and thats what it ended up being.
We had a little bit of a benefit on the servicing rights effective evaluation but that has to be with earnings credit rates and so forth.
So I would say no nothing remarkable and as I look into the second quarter I would expect a slight increase in mortgage revenue principally due to seasonality.
Great.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Sure.
Thanks Erika.
Your next question comes from the line of Jill Glaser of Credit Suisse.
Hi Jill.
Hi Jill.
Hi good morning.
So could you just provide some color in terms of what youre seeing in securities of reinvestment yields and [indiscernible] and just your outlook in terms of the margin going forward.
And then just overall with your ability to grow [indiscernible] income going forward? Right.
So Jill the  were going to grow securities portfolios I mentioned about $5 billion on a net basis in quarter two.
The securities coming on are about 25 to 30 basis points below those that are coming off in a quarter and then we have the $5 billion of growth.
So that combination of growth and the shift in the price are the rate cost us 3 to 4 basis points and thats the decline well see in the second quarter.
That and then as I mentioned the loan mix coupled with the loan fee is partly due to CA will be another couple of basis points.
So I would expect this to be down 5 or 6 basis points in the second quarter.
However as I mentioned net interest income should growth because of earning asset growth.
Okay great.
Thanks.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller of FBR.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
You mentioned on the first question of follow-up the cities that are the most compelling than that are growing the most I missed them all youre telling too that was Seattle Orange County? Yes I wouldnt say it once.
I apologize.
I said Seattle San Francisco Los Angeles Orange County.
So I would write down the specific cost line there.
And so can you add some color what youre saying in Texas and in the Midwest? Yes.
So Texas is also the other market that I mentioned.
These are markets where you got just underlying growth of populations and consumers right.
So in Texas youre going to find some of the traditional markets building out where the communities are getting large rooms were all continues and Texas has been healthy as you know virtually to the south period in time.
The west coast primarily provides for what would be some of the transition to multi-family where we feel that as a safe markets based on the composition of growing and also just continued growth of  and migration in some of those growth markets where we see that personal and corporate needs for real estate continue to be pretty strong.
We havent spent a lot of time and energy talking about healthcare and some of the retail lease services because were very careful on that area as well because I want to make sure that theyre finding themselves in the right cities and were not messing around in that market right now but we are looking in where development follows people.
And then on the  you did a good job CRA in the competitive nature out there but one of the areas that youve really been growing is the credit card and a lot of people showed lower credit card balances in the first quarter but you continue to show good growth in that.
Can you add color around that is that a big push for you guys? Yes it is.
It is  its a big part of our portfolio its like 7.5% which is one of the reasons why our charge-offs are always [indiscernible] number higher than most of our peers I dont think anyone has the portfolio risen important as we do it to our mix and we like it.
So were going to continue to grow that.
I think you know that we have a FlexPerks program which is  it was derivative of when we lost the Northwest Airlines of airlines sold them in it.
The most remarkable thing Ill have ever been a part of my career when Im done here it continues to provide all kinds of new interest and we continue to get awards for it to get lot of visibility without having to spend lot of time on TV commercials and direct that branding.
That brings the branch originations with 3100 branches we really had not turned out the opportunity for that to be a significant source of really good high quality new cards.
So we have done that in the last six quarters and thats been a remarkable contributor to the kind of growth weve had.
And then lastly Paul to remind you even in our FlexPerk which Id mentioned a moment ago weve now introduced a corporate program a FlexPerk Rewards program for corporate cards which continue now to gaining a lot of favor as we realize that lot of these corporate and small business folks are interested in finding a way to retrieve some sort of benefit from using a card and thats taken amazing success in the early stages.
So I think there is more where that came from as well.
But to say that were spending time and energy on credit card is an understatement for me to go back and repeat as part of our R&amp;D cost have been protected under the area of cards not present which will be mobile banking and mobile payments were seeing a lot of energy there too.
So I would expect that to exceed most of our peers going forward in the area were spending doing lot of money to make sure we stay ahead of the game.
And then one last on the order side its actually an area that you are really done a nice job growing.
How is the competitive nature there? How are youve been because everybody is focused on that but I think youve done the best job out there than anybody.
Thank you.
The indirect auto business for us has always been a core capability but as you recall weve announced our [indiscernible] impact over a couple of years.
We decided that we will go further down in the [indiscernible] so to the  we call them near prime.
But we also realized that we werent a big player in used auto.
So Ill just take you through an example if you Paul or the F&amp;I guy had the largest Shelby dealer in whatever city youve always knowing that we were one of the best paper then pick for auto loans and leases for new cars.
And now weve introduced used cars you feel better about introducing the U.S.
Banks by paper across spectrum.
And then the bonus round as you get more floor planning from that same institution because youre now wholly committed to them in a number of ways that perhaps you werent before.
So for us its kind of a two for three folks but were also getting a high visibility of those dealers planning interest in taking the rest of our paper.
So we already are taking an open door and pushing it further open.
I will say that in the rankings we saw in fourth quarter wed moved up 1.5% in share from eighth place to fifth place among banks.
And so that does reflect that our early stage efforts just trying to show up and I would expect that to stay in the top five which is one of our stated goals as we really double the value of this business.
Were very careful I didnt say subprime using clearly I just said something [indiscernible] below near prime but were going to get a lot of that and used autos as well.
So I think thats the reason youre seeing a full line kind of a holistic success and I expect this to be one of our big replacement strategies for OB and new normal for mortgage in the next couple of years.
Thank you very much guys.
Thanks Paul.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Murray of ISI.
Hi Keith.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Can you just touch on the expense outlook and obviously near term be interested in that but for the longer term when you think about age of compliance that were in and compliance cost going up.
Over the long-term do you think your efficiency ratio where does it bottom in the 50s versus history? Yes.
So first of all Keith Im glad you asked question if I would have found the way out do myself so which Id be known to do.
Keep yourselves thank you.
First of all in the near term lets talk about Ill remind the audience how weve managed the company.
Every single 30 days every 68 lines of business set with me and Andy and we look at their first performance related to their near term forecast and most of it or rest of whatever year were under.
So we create a placer on your call looking around corners.
And we thought ourselves on that and as we look around the corners we continue to measure and manage what it starts out a proper plan continue the year and we adjust it all through the year.
And so as we see any stress on revenue and it could be not so much on volume but it might on margins and on the total income then were going to manage the same thing on expenses.
So we manage expenses 30 days at the time and we are watching every nickel and dime and its not without surprise to you that we are very very prudent right now and were watching all discretionary costs were measuring it very closely were watching all new hires and were being excessively prudent right now because until I see a sustain and a very robust revenue in future were going to be very careful and were actually watching our expenses to a level below we thought that would be when we set the plan six months ago.
So hopefully that gives you all confidence and were not to watch that.
Secondly the efficiency ratio there is nothing more than the result of positive operating leverage and we promise you positive operating leverage this year and were going to deliver it.
Naively but thats the whole part of watching the expenses but that they stay below the revenue growth that were of course seeing and predicting.
So you will find as long as we keep to that mandate and our efficiency ratio stays in low 50s because thats how the math works.
We dont have the goal for our efficiency ratio but because our goal is positive operating leverage and were sitting at low 50s you can grow that but not on the given quarter but over the course of the year when it staying up to that position as well.
If you want to go longer term Richard Davis here thinks is as rates start to increase as the economy starts to pick up we become in fact essentially much more profitable and our expenses did not grow at that same speed as our revenue and our efficiency ratio will probably does fall that it will only be result there is no target there is no goal.
And I think what you see now is probably one of our least attractive moments in time and the cost of compliance for all intents and purposes theyre in full burdened and most of what you see now as we continue to look into the future with a new kind of normal for the cost of compliance and audit.
Thank you.
Not only excited but [indiscernible] up until.
And just going back to LCR for a second.
Does it at all change your view on commercial deposits and how you view them going forward? No it does impact how we think about different deposits in the company and depending upon the LCR runoff assumption certain deposits are certain more valuable we try to reflect that in our pricing weve actually incorporated LCR into our FTP system our Funds Transfer Pricing system.
And different deposits have different value and that is a function of LCR and were taking that into account.
Thanks.
And then just last one I know its early stages but any update on reworking the deposit in banks product and what are the steps that youd have to go through on that? Yes were working on it.
Were working strictly with our lead regulator the LCC and but we havent done a solution yet and as much as were all trying to figure out whats the next step to try.
If you follow the real tight balance of the user we lost some 30 some percent of total APR no matter how you calculate it on any given one day you probably can find a price out but this is going to be the old fashion terms.
So dependent on the willingness of the regulators to allow us to try different combination of new products and new repayment practices.
I know theyre working good pace with a number of us trying to find that solution Ive made it for the U.S.
Banks [indiscernible] pilot and tries certain variations on a program to see what kind of loan loss we would have offset against some of the benefits.
I do think this industry needs a replacement for folks who would have some form of advanced need on financials before they get their paid but we havent start building that yet and with number of us working with the regulators I think its in the offering but it wont be here soon as our CAA products starts to wind down so well have to do this again and when it does come back it will be at the same level of profitability but be much more of a CRA kind of a program that will be intended to test and find ways to serve more customers as this recovery starts to pick up.
Thank you.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Hi ken.
Hi good morning guys.
This is Bryan Batory for Ken Usdin.
Hi Brian.
Hi Brian.
Okay.
On the tax rate it was a little bit lower in the previous guide last quarter.
Im just wondering if there is anything unusual the ramp of the tax line this quarter.
And where do you expect the tax rate to run going forward from here? It was a little lower Brian youre right and part of it is due to a small state settlement we had in the quarter so the TV effective rate was 28.1%.
However I dont expect a large variation for the rest of the year and I would expect it to be somewhere around 28.5% 28.7% for the full year.
So right around this range little higher but not much.
Okay great.
And then deposits are continue to grow in year-over-year basis but the growth was a little bit slower quarter-over-quarter looking at the averages and period end balances particularly for non-interest bearing.
Are we starting to see the very early signs here of customers growing deposit funds to fund working capital needs or CapEx or was there just a seasonality impact on deposits this quarter? Brian it was a more a seasonality impact.
We typically have a lower first quarter both because of our corporate trust activities as well as wholesale activities in the first quarter.
So I dont think its yet decline that their drawing down to deposits for investment I think its more seasonality and I would expect it to increase in the second quarter.
Okay.
And one final question the other fee income line was little bit higher than trend I know you guys call out equity investment gains and some leasing items.
Any sense for how big the magnitude of these gains where? If anything is greater than $20 million or $25 million we usually call as reserve base so it was more a function of a number of smaller things and that can be lumpy in that category.
But were talking about that category when you bring upon item you may have read on Monday that Nuveen was part of the transaction with TIAA-CREF and we have an ownership interest in Nuveen.
When its offset and done that will result in a positive in the fourth quarter for us.
As its typical on asset management transactions there are components of revenue retention the customer retention that will determine the final price but as we sit today I would expect that would create a gain of a few cents in the fourth quarter.
Yeah weve always have vested our first American funds almost two years ago.
2010.
Yes.
And that went to the real estate with an equity position and now this transaction will positively impact us later in the year.
Okay great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Yes.
You bet.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Scinicariello of UBS Good morning everyone.
Hi Steve.
Just a couple of quick questions on the fee income areas just want to follow up on the commercial products revenue.
I know you kind of mentioned you had some lower wholesale transaction activity just kind of curious has that kind of since rebounded or what the outlook be from here? Right Steve.
So its a function of a couple of things one standby letter of credit activity is down and that has been trending down for the past few quarters I would expect it continue to be flat to down in the second quarter.
Second there is some syndication revenue in that line and that can be lumpy and the first quarter was particularly down that may come back a little bit in the second quarter.
But generally speaking the commercial products revenue is a function of activity on the wholesale side first quarter is typically low it will come back a bit in the second quarter but I still think showing components like standbys and other credits are going to continue to trend downward.
Got you.
And then just I know there is seasonality in lot of the card lines the deposit lines in some other areas any reason why those wouldnt bounce back as well or is it just purely seasonal thats put down this quarter? For sure the payments component is weakest in the first quarter across most of the categories and I would expect that to continue to bounce in the second quarter.
Deposit service charge is also lower in the first quarter but a lot of that is also driven by incidents and activity on the retail side.
So all things being equal you would expect a bit of an increase in the second quarter but it will depend on customer and retail activity.
Perfect.
Thank you so much.
Sure.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran of Autonomous.
Hi good morning.
Can you I guess if you separate your footprint into the cold weather bid in the warm weather bid was the trajectory month by month noticeably different into extent the cold weather part of the footprint was weaker by the end of March was a kind of back to normal level? We really didnt it sounds so popular to say but we really didnt see much I mean even the Pacific Southwest where you have the more traditional winter and the lack of snow and things wasnt meaningfully different than Central and Midwest plans that we do banking and so while there was undoubtedly some diminishment of consumer activity on those really bad snow events but for ultimately that were not counting on whether to be much of a factor and we certainly dont see a big pent-up catch up and kind of like a catch of the clock because we dont see that coming through.
And then on the payments business you had a couple of comments that seems more positive.
Weve been through a kind of transition period first with the regulatory changes and with the Department of Defense.
I mean we are at a point now where we hit that turning point and certainly the comps are easier but the growth rate kind of returns back to normal or there are still kind of identifiable headwinds that you see in the near term that would depress results across those four line items? Well Brian we are seeing the decrease in defense and government spending go down.
So while were still down year-over-year it was down a far lesser amount it was down may be 5% or 6% and it was offset by increased corporate activity which actually resulted in corporate payment systems revenue being up on a year-over-year basis which is a positive sign.
So I think weve seen the worst of it.
I think it will start to stabilize and grow.
If I could sneak in one last one on the dividend targets long term youve always been very consistent about this but if you could just remind us both from your standpoint and a regulatory standpoint what would have to happen for the environment to look like a 40% dividend payout instead of the 31%.
Yes this is Richard.
We have always kind of reset it some mid-90 30% to 40% will be a dividend of 30% to 40% in buybacks and were relying more on the buyback at this stage.
Two things Brian one is we have been without the Fed oversight were going to be very prudent and careful to make sure the revenue we do is sustainable under renewed circumstance trust or not.
And so a 30% on the lower end of that 30 to 40 per dividend and I believe that in the next year or few years we will either get permission real comfortable permission wed have we want in that range but well start to think such a robustly strong 24 month future that will move over that number because we like to give about 30 but we wouldnt get above 40.
So its going to be that slow trip somewhere in the middle.
Buybacks in the meantime are a very elegant solutions to allow us to have that kind of permissions as long as the price is right and the financials are right to allow our shareholders to target a good return were giving us that ability turn out and off something given the uncertainty until we see things being more I think sustained.
So were not disappointed where we are all things told we would get there in a nice long methodical way anyway and I think our expectations were probably aligned pretty well with what the Federal permitted to do as we continue to prove ourselves and prove our stress that it to be accurate and other five years in a row.
So well get there over time but were not doing a withheld and we dont really want to send a signal that we are disappointed.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Mutascio of KBW.
Good morning Richard how are you? Great.
How are you? Im doing well.
Thanks.
Andy just a quick question back on the mortgage side of the house and Im looking at page 40 and kind of give nice breakdown between the origination loan servicing and some of the inputs on the servicing asset.
The one item I was kind of looking at is the decay you know the other changes and mortgage service and rights fair value you know thats been running plus or minus a $100 million excuse me growing a negative plus or minus $100 million for the last several quarters and this quarter was down into the $80 million range.
Im assuming that decay is less than previous quarters because prepayments speeds have slowed is that first of all is that correct? Yes thats correct.
And then is that I guess hard to predict clearly but if the rates were to stay where they are and its up on long term side how would I look at the decay would it stabilize at a negative $80 million or does it get lower from here? It all depends on rates as you just mentioned because of prepayments but I would expect to reach stable to maybe up a little bit depending upon rates within this level.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
You bet.
Thanks Chris.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom of SunTrust Robinson.
Hey Eric.
Hi good morning.
Just to follow up on a two different issues that had been raised on the call already.
The decline in the credit and debit cards revenue that you showed sequentially is a bit more than what some of your peers have demonstrated and I would have guessed that weather effects may have been part of that but it seems like maybe weather wasnt such a driver.
So Im just curious about what in your view might have explained that differential versus peers.
I cant speak to the peers but our number on a sequential basis is entirely seasonality if you think about our credit card retail credit card revenue if you look at a year-over-year we are up over 11% principally driven by increased activity and increased market share gain.
So the linked quarter is all seasonality.
Got it.
And then just to go back to Keiths question on the payday events for a moment I believe that you previously guided to us a quarterly impact of around $50 million negative in NII is that the case and was that evidenced in this period? We did have decline across the as expected I would say so across all other fee categories I would say it was yes it was as expected.
So on the payday lending or at the CAA product the full year numbers about $220 million the first quarter was a little impact.
The second quarter is going to be down about $15 million then it goes almost entirely way in quarters three and four.
That goes about line at the end of May so we just be at small slow trip down to zero as the year end.
Got it.
So sorry Andy just because I was making quickness so that was very little first quarter of 15 second and then sort of failed out by third.
Right.
So you think about its just a huge number if you think about $200 million its sort of 503500.
Got it.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo.
Good morning Matt.
Hi Matt.
Hey good morning guys its actually Jason Harbes on Matt.
So it looks like you got a pretty nice blues from equity investments and retail leasing revenue and the other fee income category this quarter.
Just curious how sustainable do you view that and we guys still expecting overall fee income growth in 2014 in spite of the weaker contribution for mortgage? So Jason a couple of things in that other category there are miscellaneous equity gains that occur that can be lumpy quarter to quarter.
So sometimes up sometimes down this was a little bit of a positive quarter as we benefit a little bit from those investments.
You really dont know what the next quarters will be until we get the results from the events which we have so its hard to tell exactly but I wouldnt expect material changes neither up nor down other than the gain I talked about that we expect in the fourth quarter from the Nuveen transaction so thats number one.
Number two in terms of overall fee revenue were going to continue to have the headwind on a year-over-year basis in mortgage banking in quarter two because the decline in mortgage banking didnt really start last year into quarters three and four.
But I would expect fee growth in many of the other categories and I would expect overall fee growth in quarters three and four once were passed that mortgage headwind.
Okay thanks.
And just I guess my follow-up would be on the impact of the affordable housing accounting rule change.
Specifically how we should be thinking about the non-controlling interest line it looks like thats a little bit of a different number than weve seen historically.
Yes.
And that was a function of change we made in the fourth quarter I would say the first quarter is back to a normal level across all categories and the first quarter impact versus the fourth quarter was about $35 million lower non-interest expense and $35 million higher taxes but thats now in the run rate and what you see in the first quarter now reflects all the accounting change than what we would expect to see in future quarter.
So the only change youll see for us is really volume related no more accounting.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Thanks Jason.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Dan Werner of Morningstar.
Good morning.
Hi Dan.
Hi.
If Id asked you guys year and a half two years ago what a normalize net charge-off level was you would have said around 1% and clearly since then as the quality has improved and charge-off levels have come down if I ask you that question now what would you consider normalize charge-off levels both near term and longer term what kind of answer would I get? Long-term and let Bill answer but long term is still 1%.
Under the mix of the portfolio its hard to remember the old division of days right.
But if were all extending credit at the right level and we are taking the appropriate measured risk especially with the credit card portfolio which has the level ours is and the kind of business that we will plan to conduct in consumer areas 1% would be over the long-term.
We actually never had 1% you got since one way or the other.
And based on the map of credit measurements and credit quality we could take a number of years to get to the one.
And so we are not taking risk today to get there sooner than we should but we are also not trying to diminish what value we get from housing at 59 basis point but Bill [indiscernible].
Yes.
So Dan we will measure that every quarter and I mean its very plus or minus the couple basis point of that 1%.
So that just goes to the consistency of our outlook for the portfolio and how we underwrite.
And as Richard said the 1% is not a target per se.
Right.
It is a true the cycle number.
So in good times its going to be significantly less and then in bad times its going to be higher.
Okay.
And we do not going to see it for a while and even with our recovery that has been taken out charge-offs are very very moderate at this point and very flattish.
So at this undoubtedly we  you know we kind of want all the banks to start going that movement northward as the credit quality becomes important and so does the volume in the more robust nature people seeking credit in some cases not finding way to pay it back but I dont think it is just for a while.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
That was our final question.
I would not like to turn the conference back over to Sean OConnor for any closing remarks.
Thank you all for listening todays call.
And if you have any more follow-up questions give me call this afternoon.
Thank you.
Thanks everybody.
Thanks everyone.
Hi.
Thank you.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to U.S.
Bancorps Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Following the review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorps Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon at Eastern Daylight Time through Wednesday July 23 at 12:00 midnight Eastern Daylight Time.
I will now turn the conference call over to Sean OConnor Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Jackie and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorps second quarter 2014 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of this slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our Web site at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during todays call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of todays presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on filed with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sean.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining our call.
Ill begin our review of U.S.
Bancs results with a summary of the quarters highlights on Page 3 of the presentation.
U.S.
Bancorp reported record income of $1.5 billion for the second quarter of 2014 or $0.78 per diluted common share.
Total average loans grew year-over-year by 6.8% and 2% linked quarter.
We experienced strong loan growth in total average deposits to 6% over the prior year and 1.9% linked quarter.
Credit quality remains strong.
Total net charge-offs decreased by 11% from the prior year and rose modestly on a linked quarter basis.
Non-performing assets excluding covered assets declined compared to both the prior year quarter and on a linked quarter basis.
We continue to generate significant capital this quarter.
Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio estimated for Basel III standardized approach as a fully implemented was 8.9% at June 30.
We repurchased 15 million shares of common stock during the second quarter which along with our dividends resulted in a 75% return of earnings to our shareholders in the second quarter.
Slide four provides you with a five quarter history of our performance metrics and they continue to be among the best in the industry.
Return on average assets in the second quarter was 1.6% and return on average common equity was 15.1%.
Moving to the graph on the right.
You can see that this quarters net interest margin was 3.27% in line with our guidance.
Our efficiency ratio for the second quarter was 53.1%.
Excluding the impact of two notable items in the second quarter our efficiency ratio was 51.3%.
We expect this ratio will remain in the low 50s going forward as we continue to manage expenses in relation to revenue trends while continuing to invest-in and grow our businesses.
Turning to Slide five; the Company reported total net revenue in the second quarter of $5.2 billion a 4.9% increase from the prior year.
Excluding the impact of this quarters Visa sale total net revenue increased 0.5% from the prior year.
The increase is mainly due to the higher net interest income as well as increases in a majority of fee revenue categories partially offset by a reduction in mortgage banking revenue.
Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on Slide six.
Average total loans outstanding increased by over $15 billion or 6.8% year-over-year and 2% linked quarter.
Overall excluding covered loans our run-off portfolio average total loans grew by 8.3% year-over-year and 2.2% linked quarter.
Once again the increase in average loans outstanding was led by strong growth in average total commercial loans which grew by 12.4% year-over-year and 5.9% over the prior quarter.
Total average commercial real-estate also increased over the prior quarters but the average loans growing by 6.9% year-over-year and 1.1% linked quarter.
Residential real-estate loans grew 10.5% year-over-year and 0.4% over the prior quarter.
Average credit card loans increased 5.9% year-over-year and were flat on a linked quarter basis.
Within the other retail loan categories auto loans and leases were higher both year-over-year and linked quarter while average home equity lines and loans continued to decline.
The rate of decline in this category however has slowed considerably over the past few quarters.
Total average revolving commercial and commercial real-estate commitments continue to grow at a fast pace increasing year-over-year by 12.7% and 3.1% on a linked quarter basis.
Line utilization increased slightly and was approximately 24% in the second quarter.
Total average deposits increased $15 billion or 6% over the same quarter of last year.
On a linked quarter basis average deposits increased by 1.9% with growth in low cost savings deposits particularly strong on a linked quarter basis.
Turning to Slide seven and credit quality.
Total net charge-offs declined 11% on a year-over-year basis and rose modestly on a linked quarter basis.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 0.58% in the second quarter.
Non-performing assets excluding covered assets decreased by 1.6% on a linked quarter basis and 8.1% from the second quarter of 2013.
During the second quarter we released $25 million of reserves $10 million less than the first quarter of 2014 and $5 million less than in the second quarter of 2013.
Given the mix and quality of our portfolio we currently expect net charge-offs and total non-performing assets to remain relatively stable in the third quarter of 2014.
Andy will now give you a few more details about our second quarter results.
Thanks Richard.
Slide eight gives you a view of our second quarter 2014 results versus comparable time periods.
Our diluted EPS of $0.78 was $0.02 higher than the second quarter of 2013 and $0.05 higher than the previous quarter.
The key drivers of the Companys second quarter earnings are summarized on Slide nine.
Second quarter results included two previously disclosed notable items.
The Company reached the $200 million settlement with the U.S.
Department of Justice to resolve their investigation into the endorsement of mortgage loans under the FHAs insurance program.
Also on the quarter and prior to the settlement the Company sold 3 million shares of Class B common stock of Visa resulting in a pretax gain of $214 million.
Combined these notable items had no impact to diluted earnings per common share for the second quarter.
Excluding these notable items the Company achieved positive operating leverage both on the year-over-year and the linked quarter basis.
The $11 million or 0.7% increase in net income year-over-year was principally due to an increase in total net revenue and a lower provision for credit losses.
Non-interest income was up 2.7% year-over-year as an increase in average earning assets was partially offset by a decrease in the net interest margin.
And $24 billion growth in average earning assets year-over-year included increases in average total loans as well as planned increases in the securities portfolio.
Offsetting a portion of the growth in these categories was a $4 billion reduction in average loans held for sale reflecting lower mortgage origination activity versus the same quarter of last year.
The net interest margin of 3.27% was 16 basis points lower than the second quarter of 2013 primarily due to growth in the investment portfolio and lower average rates and lower rates on new loans partially offset by lower rates on deposits and short-term borrowings and a reduction in higher cost long-term debt.
Non-interest income increased to $168 million or 7.4% year-over-year primarily due to an increase in other income due to the Visa sale.
Including the Visa sale increases in the majority of fee revenue categories partially offset the decline in mortgage banking revenue.
We saw growth in retail and corporate payments merchant processing trust and investment management fees deposit service charges commercial products revenue and investment product fees.
Non-interest expense increased year-over-year by $196 million or 7.7% due to the FHA DOJ settlement.
Excluding the settlement non-interest expense was essentially flat as lower employee benefits expense driven by lower pension cost was offset by higher compensation expense reflecting the impact of merit increases and higher staffing for risk and compliance activities.
Net income on a linked quarter basis was $98 million or 7% higher mainly due to an increase in total net revenue.
On a linked quarter basis net interest income increased due to higher average earning assets and an additional day in the quarter partially offset by lower loan rates.
The net interest margin of 3.27% was 8 basis points lower than the first quarter principally due to the growth in lower rate investment securities and lower rates on new loans mainly due to higher growth in wholesale as compared to retail loans.
On a linked quarter basis non-interest income was higher by $336 million or 15.9%.
This favorable variance was primarily due to the Visa sale seasonally higher payments revenue and growth in all other fee categories.
Higher mortgage banking revenue was principally due to a favorable change in the valuation of mortgage servicing rights net of hedging activities.
On a linked quarter basis non-interest expense increased by $209 million or 8.2% due to the FHA DOJ settlement.
Excluding the settlement non-interest expense was essentially flat.
Lower employee benefits expense was offset by higher professional services and marketing and business development expense.
Turning to Slide 10 our capital position is strong.
Beginning January 1 2014 the regulatory capital requirements effective for the Company follow Basel III subject to certain transition provisions from Basel I over the next four years to full implementation by January 1 2018.
Basel III includes two comprehensive methodologies for calculating risk weighted assets; a general standardized approach and a more risk sensitive advanced approaches.
As of April 1 2014 the Company exited its parallel run qualification period resulting in its capital adequacy now being evaluated against which every Basel III methodology is most restrictive.
The most restrictive methodology for our Company is the currently the standardized approach.
Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio estimated using the Basel III standardized approach as if only implemented at June 30th was 8.9%.
At 8.9% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement.
Our tangible book value per share rose to $15.26 at June 30th representing a 13.2% increase over the same quarter of last year and a 1.8% increase over the prior quarter.
Turning to slide 11.
In June the Board of Directors declared a 6.5% increase in our common stock dividend.
As a result in the second quarter we returned 75% of our earnings to shareholders.
Dividends accounted for 31% of the return to shareholders and the 50 million of stock we repurchased in second quarter accounted for the remaining 44%.
Ill now turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Andy.
To conclude our formal remarks Ill turn your attention to slide 12.
Again in the second quarter we focused on extending our advantage which is our thinking for 2014.
Our advantage is real and it extents every one of our businesses.
Our prudent risk management our efficient operating platform and our industry leading profitability allow us to operate from this position of strength.
The Chicago area Charter One Bank Franchise acquisition that we completed in late June is just one example of that strength.
As we move through the second half of 2014 well continue to look to extend our advantage.
Our 67 000 talented and engaged employees remain focused on delivering consistent predictable and repeatable results for the benefit of our customers our employees our community and our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Bill and I would now be happy to be answer questions from the audience.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Good morning.
My first question is the outlook on commercial loan growth for the rest of the year.
I think obviously your gains on an organic basis continued to be quite impressive and the commentary from the large banks have reported before you has been quite positive for the year.
And I was wondering Richard if you could add your commentary in terms of what you are hearing from customers in terms of CapEx for the next six months? Id be happy to Erika.
Thank you.
First of all you are right.
Weve had some remarkably consistent and industry-leading growth in average loans.
And with the commercial kind of the wholesale banking being up 5.9% linked quarter that would be one of our best quarters we have seen in long-time.
Ill first tell you that we are seeing and particularly in the middle market where were really want to see kind of the core growth in the country as we see middle market businesses starting to expand in a more organic basis.
Credit structures are firming up at the expensive pricing.
I typically tell you we dont lose on pricing and we dont because we have a cost advantage but we do see a pricing compression in both in the middle market and the leverage space.
But particularly I see that as a good sign of some forms of green shoots in growth.
In the larger and investment grade credit structures and pricing remain much more stable.
But they are also more driven than they might be organic driven.
Loan demands for second quarter were particularly high and in the second quarter we expect it to moderate slightly but still be at a substantially higher growth rate.
In other words that 5.9% will probably moderate to something more between 3% to 5% as we look into the next quarter.
Now our loan growth is strong across the country.
There is no regional definition.
Retail food and ag continue to be strong and we see some weaknesses coming in oil gas energy and utility.
So its probably where you had expected to be and are a reflection of loan growth and our forecast I think is in line with what you see and read about in the current economy.
Finally were seeing new credit opportunities being driven by refinancing but also seeing as I said earlier organic growth.
Whats interesting is people are starting to increase inventory we think to build for a better economy and a better outlook in quarters three and four.
Id long believe that as the Fed starts to get closer to whether its a reality of increased rates and leads to believe that they are eminent and that starts to increase economic activity at the wholesale side as people prepare for a better economy.
We also expect increased M&amp;A activity continue.
And finally we see companies looking to banks to create alternative avenues of funding as they want to prove to the rating agencies that they have a diversified source of funding.
So I think banks might be back in favor again for reasons that make sense but especially as rates continue to be low people dont want to miss that one they will be closest.
So in total I will answer even more than you asked we were at the 2% linked quarter loan growth.
We offer you guys kind of a range of 1 to 1.5 and we move around that as the quarter seasons.
We are going to bring it back down to that 1.5 as a starting point as the quarter three begin and well start to iterate that as we get further into the quarter.
But I think the 2% might be a high quarter for us this year but were still expecting to be substantially impressive and somewhere between 1.5 range as we get further along into quarter three.
Thank you for that.
And again I wanted to ask about another area of strength the year-over-year gains and card balances certainly outperformed even on a core basis still larger competitors.
And I am wondering if you can give us sort of a sense of how that correlates with sales volume versus actual balance growth and how much is this taking wallet share away from the larger competitors? Erika this is Andy.
I would say its the combination of all those things as market share grow as well as core customer grow.
So same-store activities same-store sales on both the merchant and card side was up about 4.5% a little strong in Europe than in North America but in North America right around 4%.
And if you look at our card fees both on the linked quarter and year-over-year basis its reflective of the increase in same-store and sales in the customer spend.
And then if you look at balances balances were relatively flat on a linked quarter basis part of that is seasonality but you see that growth year-over-year the level of spend continues to increase the level of utilization so to speak is flat to down a little bit.
Got it and just one last question for you Andy.
I was wondering if you could give us an update on where you are with regards to potential or LCR compliance with the proposals and also how much further pressure we should expect on the margin as we think about maybe potentially building the securities book further out for each Q only.
Sure Erika.
So in terms first of all in LCR we are very close to that number.
As you know we ended this quarter at $90 billion in securities.
We will plan to grow it to $95 billion in the third quarter so $5 billion is more similar to what we saw in the second quarter.
And once we get to the end of the third quarter Ill let you know but were going to be very very close as our expectations the final rule will come out here in the next few months and that will guide us to what our final number is.
But were very close.
In terms of margin our margin was down 8 basis points in quarter this second quarter.
And there are three components; the first is their securities bill I just spoke to which costs us about 3 basis points; the second was the reduction in CAA checking account advance fees which runs through around these and weve talked about that that cost us about 2 basis points; and then finally the loan mix most of the growth that occurred this quarter was in the wholesale category.
In fact wholesale overall was up about 4% and retail was relatively flat.
Wholesale is a little lower yield and that cost us about 3 basis points.
So that is the 8 basis points in quarter two.
As we look into quarter three I would expect the same securities in past about 3 basis points.
I would expect a similar loan mix impact of 2 to 3 basis points.
And CAA in quarter three will cause a reduction of about 5 basis points in margin because our $39 million will go to effectively zero.
So you had all that up its 10 to 11 basis points.
But importantly net interest income will still grow in quarter three versus quarter two.
And this is Richard.
And importantly after that CAA those 39 million going to zero were done so that impact is over.
And as Andy said at this call 90 days to the day well hopefully have both the rules and know where our final liquidity build is and we can either call it done or call it near done and give you final guidance.
But for that all that leaves is the mix and were all hopeful that well continue to do well on commercial and that the consumer will start to bid its own place in growth and in that case the margins will firm up.
So well telegraph you all that once those two activities at CAA and liquidity build are over we think the margin flattens out and is very small movement along with the big reason of mix.
Thank you for such complete answers.
I appreciate it.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache from Nomura.
Thanks good morning.
As we look ahead to the period where the Fed I guess excess reserve decreases the Fed [earnings] liquidity from the system.
Could you talk a little bit about presumably in that kind of environment the strong deposit growth that youve been enjoying decreases and perhaps maybe just you could comment give us color on the packing order for your funding preferences as we look forward to a stronger long growth environment? And then perhaps also comment on whether you see banks having to some banks having to raise more expensive funding to remain LCR complaint? So Bill I would say our focus has been on the core deposit category youre seeing good growth in that category across DDA as well as interest bearing deposits and then its across both the retail as well as the wholesale and corporate trust side of the equation.
We have a great funding source in our corporate trust business which represents about 15% of our deposit base including our DDA balances.
So we have a strong core deposit and strong opportunity for continued growth.
And that would be our principle preference in terms of growth as we look at increased rates.
So secondarily we have ample access to the wholesale markets in terms of debt issuance.
And as you know we have the lowest spreads out there in terms of our opportunity there so that would be secondary delta deposit growth.
And finally we have a entity called the Money Center which is short-term balance sheet growth in terms of deposits for wholesale customers which just offers us another opportunity in wholesale growth.
So those are sort of order of opportunity.
I will also tell you that were positively bias to increasing rates as you see from our Q and our disclosures 1.75% or so in terms of 200 basis point parallel shift and in addition we have about a $100 million in waivers that will come through in fee income to the extent rates go up 75 or 100 basis points.
Thats very helpful.
Thank you Andy.
I had one last one for Richard.
Richard can you offer some perspective on you gave some very helpful color in your commentary.
But perhaps anything that youre seeing now that gives you greater confidence in the sustainability of the recovery given some of the stakes that what you see to-date? Hello Bill.
This is more of the Richard Davis the world to see and its consistent.
But Ive always thought that and this recession as we finally come out of it that its going to be the businesses that link first in other words its not consumed further than like it has in many times past because the wealth of that still isnt present given the housing values and some of the skittish nature of consumers heading down through this recession.
So I am seeing more and more the consumerism will be incentivized by price lowering and by new activities and new product innovation by the wholesale sights.
And were seeing that thats why I kind of dont mind.
I dont like the mix version but I like wholesale growing.
It makes sense to me it is growing faster and first in this recession recovery than the consumer.
That also aligns with what I think we would all agree that under giant [yelling] were seeing more and more while she will talk about how careful she wants to be about increasing rates were taking away some of the time specificity that used to be there were not linking into unemployment rates were not linking it to points and time.
But were linking it to a sense of how much longer can rates be lower and what kind of levers would it give to Fed and start moving rates up.
I think there was announcement have been in our customers view that is coming to an end and that does encourage and incentivize people to take action and make some decisions that they have been sitting on for many many years.
Those are both I think sustainable kind of actions that will provide us with kind of next generation of slow but steady growth back into the consumers and were looking for.
So businesses lead out based on a belief that things are coming to an end on low rates consumers follow then were back into maybe a different kind of a recovery but one that were all I think we all come greatly.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
My first question is on expenses.
So ex the DOJ charge they were pretty flat quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
So just wondering what the outlook is for cost in the back half of the year and if there is an expectation that youll continue to drive positive operating leverage? Yes we do expect positive operating leverage.
If you back out the two notable items this quarter as Richard mentioned in his comments we did have positive operating leverage both on a linked quarter as well as year-over-year basis.
We would expect to have that for the full year and we would expect to have our efficiency ratio continue to be in low 50 just like what you saw this quarter.
Okay great.
And then next on the discontinuation of the deposit advance product I think previously you guys had stated that there is not a ton of offsets either with new lending products or fee based products that you can offer.
Just wanted to get your updated thoughts there are there anything youre looking at today that could offset some of that revenue give-up in the net interest income? Bryan I would say I dont see it not in this category were going to be looking more to mobile banking and some of the new innovative deposit products to offset that category.
But to the extent that we would have to live within some of the new rules that have been created for that kind of a product it would almost be a breakeven product.
And we may still while come out with something because we want to continue to be good stores of helping people first time customers and help people that have certainly less means than the average.
But at the same time its not going to be a money maker.
So I wouldnt consider it a replacement for any kind of a fee category.
I will say that U.S.
Bancorp is working on and well probably have a product that will be sufficient to meet a different set of customer needs that we were meeting before.
But I think well start turning our attention more to things like mobile banking and mobile payments and some of our payment categories through place where well be kind of forever loss and income benefit from that original checking account advance.
So well seek it will take a longer to replace than it would have been just a straight up product but I wouldnt count on it.
Okay.
And the tax rate jumped a bit.
Was there anything unusual there? And is the outlook still for 28% going forward? Yes nothing unusual 28% to 29% for the full year.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Arfstrom with RBC Capital Markets.
Just a follow-up on the expense question Richard or Andy where are we in terms of the expense environment for U.S.
Banc? I know that periodically you have the plan B which is a more strict approach based on the revenue environment.
But just out of curiosity what is the message internally on expenses? Look we are on plan B right now.
There is plan C and D but I prefer on plan B.
Our employees have been really they trust us and I appreciate that a lot.
In other words weve said in the outlook new plan that we expected last November when we built 2014 was revenue up X and expenses up slightly less than X.
And as you all know I think quarter one was the last quarter were not going to see that made up.
And so weve asked everybody to reduce their expense growth still to grow but lower level as we expect revenue to grow but at a lower level.
Were in the middle of that now and what that just means is were not taking any risk discretionary expenses and then asked were asking people to watch their nickels and dimes and to keep a close eye on FTE.
Thats not sustainable but we also dont think its going to need to be but well continue to employ until the economy starts to show a little more robust and sustainability.
Having said that I think weve mentioned before the key elements of expense growth are pretty much already in place with the Company; A our CapEx which is always the big number.
Weve viewed the last few years to really catch-up from the many years before that.
And we said our peak years behind us but we have the amortized cost that will continue further through next few.
But we said our peak and that starts to move down over the coming years.
We dont see any kind of a retrace back to a high level.
Weve got the compensation in the FTE but for these acquisitions and new partners we bring on weve got a really nice steady state.
Our compensation is at parity with our peers.
Our performance plans pay people for performance.
Weve been paying above target for the last few years because performed at that level.
So there is not a big issue there.
And then finally on just general operating cost we have one operating system.
Weve raised that one operating system and we bring in the company we bring a set of same singular view of operating integrity.
So we dont have multiple accounting firms accounting systems and multiple technology systems that we have to integrate.
So on one hand I told you what you all tell me which is you guys dont have much upside in reducing your expenses because youre already efficient.
And Ill say that's true and youre all welcome.
We worked hard at that and weve protected.
And I think by staying in low 50s as weve committed its a good indicator to use that we will let revenue be the driver to expenses.
But there is nothing substantial that were holding back on or which we had the opportunity to spend money on its pretty much as the runway.
The last big dog in this hunt is whether or not compliance costs are fully burdened.
And Im not going to be dummying up to say I think that were done but I believe the best in everything Im looking at weve come to a place where our operating expenses aligns with compliance audit and operating integrity is pretty much where it needs to be for a while separate some surprise and now wed like to put in place the last couple of quarters.
So I dont see a big jump.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And maybe question for Bill Parker just on credit I know its really kind of a non-issue at this point but I remember You want me to talk about credit.
I am here.
Well thats part of this is that I remember when you broke through a 100 basis points of charge-offs and that was -- that seem like a big thing and you talked about maybe been a 90 to 100 basis point charge-off bank.
Now it seems like were bouncing around 60.
Is this the trough bill or is this feel like normal where its kind of bounce around or whether the puts and takes in terms of a loss outlook? Well in terms of the environment were in which is a stable economy modestly improving economy yes our outlook for our losses are fairly stable.
The one area we still have some room for improvement and based on the decline and delinquencies that we saw this quarter would be in residential mortgage.
So there is still room for improvement there.
But for this type of environment that that 90 to 100 that you mentioned wed refine that every quarter right now its 96.
But that's a through the cycle measure it looks of good times and the bad times.
So right now where were at is a comfortable spot for this type of environment.
Okay.
And Bill anything making you nervous or anything where youre holding the line and saying that were not going to do that? Well I wouldnt be doing my job for some of those.
But in general we have not materially changed any of our underwriting standards.
The only thing we did coming out of the downturn was do some controlled expansion on our indirect auto portfolio that's gone well.
Weve had strong originations in that space but its all very high credit quality.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Thanks Jon.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Werner with Morningstar.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I guess relative to with credit quality kind of expanding on that with commercial loan growing and kind of driving the loan growth here and stable credit quality youre still releasing reserves here.
Should we expect that to continue or reverse going forward as loans continue to grow here? Well some day yes.
And I cant tell you the exact infection point.
But our reserve release this quarter was $25 million so very modest less than or about a penny of share.
So whether we release a little or start adding a little depending upon the strength of loan and commitment growth Id say its not that relevant to the earnings potential going forward.
But we watch that we still have little bit of credit improvement to go and so we watch that balance that with our loan and commitment growth.
Yes Dan it will be a super easily telegraph very soft turning the corner that if when that happens in the inflection.
So you wont be surprised by one quarter over the next because its a very slow process.
And eventually Id love to be adding to loan losses because the loan growth is so robust and because we should prepare for years forward.
So that to me at the end of the day wont be a bad outcome but were not there yet.
Okay.
And then second question on mortgage revenue I had in my notes that to expect like between $225 million and $250 million in revenue is that still consistent or relatively the range that were going to see for the rest of the year? Yes I think that's in the range.
So if you look into the third quarter versus the second quarter this is Andy.
We would expect mortgage application volume to increase slightly typical seasonal increases but the servicing revenue will down a bit.
So I would expect it to be flat to down a bit from this quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Murray with ISI.
If you could just touch on the fee momentum it looks like you had pretty broad momentum in fee category this quarter.
Youve obviously just touched on the mortgage outlook.
But can you just give a sense of which line items or which categories ex-seasonality in 2Q you feel like there is good underlying momentum that could carry through in the back half of 14? Sure.
This is Andy again.
So across our payments businesses we saw growth in all four categories.
I would say most of that government pressure that we had seen in corporate card is behind us and that government actually grew this quarter as well as corporate.
So corporate fees are good merchant processing fees continue to grow card fees continue to grow.
Our trust and investment management is doing very well both on the wealth management side as well as the corporate trust side.
Commercial product fees which is reflection of corporate and wholesale activity continues to grow investment management is growing.
So were actually seeing growth across many categories of our fees.
And including deposit service charge which is more seasonal and based on days but really I wouldnt say there are any particular weaknesses and strong growth across all.
And I thank all of them are quite leveraged to an economic recovery.
So to the extent the growth accelerates so I think well see even accelerated the growth.
And I would add to that Keith with interest rates and FX volatility solo thats the area where that line continues to be under some pressure.
But as Andy said its very positively extorted into the economy.
So the backlog is good and corporate bond fees are on track.
So were seeing some of those coming back to some level that make sense as the economy starts to warm up a bit.
But that would be there lag rates as we go through the list of key businesses that we watch.
Thank you.
Maybe one for Bill can you give an update on the sneak review was any of that in this quarter I am assuming its going to be in the third quarter for you guys but just any thoughts on the process this year versus past et cetera.
Yes I am glad you asked that actually because usually we do get the results in August but this year we got them early.
So we have processed everything its in our results.
Any changes for us were completely immaterial.
We had excellent results.
We have not seen sort of OCCs that are the regulators industry publication which give some insights into where they saw stress on really just speaking for our portfolio.
But were in and done with it and no material impact.
Okay thanks.
And then last one seems like GAAP assets were up about 10% year-over-year the Basel III risk weighted assets were up around 7% is this just a mix thing meaning more securities highly rated securities or is there any kind of optimization going on that you guys are focused on? Its exactly what we said.
Its the securities growth at a lower risk weighted asset.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous.
So on the loan growth I mean clearly you guys are doing very well.
I guess one of the things Id scratch my head is when I benchmark you to the large domestic banks and the HA or whats come out so far in the quarter clearly the 6.7% year-over-year growth ex-charter one is best-in-class.
But then when I benchmark you to the kind of head line numbers for the system its about a line.
And it seems like that this can act a clearly there is the small bank trend which youve talked about in the past.
And I was hoping you could update us on where you see that level of competition? But then B there is this kind of new trend of foreign banks really growing quite rapidly at least in the total system data.
And I was wondering if you could also offer any thoughts you have there? Is that something that is material and youre seeing in your markets or is that more happening in the capital markets and leverage lending and not really affecting you? Yes sure.
This is Richard.
So first of all I guess I think there are four categories.
I think of that you said the kind of domestic banks I think that the regional banks like us I think of community banks and I think of the foreign banks.
And our intelligence neither the community banks nor the foreign banks was taking any market share or creating any impairment to our growth.
So I cant really look at all the data that youre looking at.
On the HA we typically are about half to twice better than those averages as we track it ourselves.
So its consistent with what were seeing.
Community banks are -- theyre not as diversified so they will go down the path on one or two loan product type and well fight a good fight in certain smaller markets.
At the end of the day when youre looking for a customer with a need for more than just one loan or one type of loan we typically win the day on that.
And the foreign banks maybe its because were more centrally located in the middle of country and even to the West Coast but they are simply not creating a burden to us that weve noticed at this point and they have in the past so both of those categories have found us in the times before.
I think Ill take it backdoor to the longstanding rationale that weve used to take it outside of it I wonder what they are doing to that make sense category and that is our funding advantage is just substantial I mean theyre real.
Theyre very real and they are very big.
And you compare to any of those other three groups from the larger money center banks to the community banks to the foreign banks we view them every time.
So thus for this management team getting greedy or sloppy and letting too much of that benefit go away altogether were letting it build itself out.
I mean the higher pricing benefits to the highest quality customer which is why we can have high quality have growth and have that on a lower risk side and use some of that advantage.
So hopefully that makes sense as to why were doing.
There is no magic here and there is no sustainably risk of this going away unless we were to harm our own ratings.
So were not planning to do that either.
So hopefully Brian that gives you a little more color.
That does.
Thank you.
All my other questions have been asked.
Thanks.
Our final question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
I am express a little bit of concern about the behavior of consumer deposits as rates rise and wondered if youve given much thought to the issues if you guys are testing if you see the need for any new or different products this time around or if you expect things to be pretty sticky? Nancy this is Andy.
I do think were going to see a decline in deposits overall more than what we had seen historically when rates start to move up and weve actually modeled that in our rate sensitivity when we give you our numbers.
The best example I think is our DDA levels have gone from about $50 billion to almost $74 billion and I do expect because there is low opportunity cost of that DDA today as rates move up were going to see some decline there.
So we are modeling it that way.
We are preparing for it that way.
And we also have a number of consumer products that were testing in different markets in terms of a little higher rate to continue to grow core deposits.
Yes and Ill add to that Nancy.
I said home deposit start to fall because that would be a great indicator that people are using their cash.
As you know then theyll use our -- the line they have been paying for and then they will give a new line.
That brings me to utilization a little bit.
We are seeing utilization continue to be slowly but surely getting better slowly is the operative.
We are not seeing a huge turn but actually this last quarter was the first increase in our wholesale utilization since 2008 smaller than it might be thats a pretty big deal and thats along with the potential of deposits starting to come out.
Those would be actually good signs I think of consumers and businesses using their money and then some of our money to kind of fund their growth.
But I will say we also have this advantage that we want to remind people of on the core deposit side with our corporate trust business which has a fair amount of contractual difference and distinction 15% or so of our non-interest bearing comes from that safer category.
And no matter what the stress test that we provide will result in it allows us with a little bit more of a foundation core deposits that at the end again with this corporate trust we dont talk enough about but provides the distinction and the uniqueness to our portfolio.
Thanks for pointing that out.
Richard your thoughts about the payments businesses right now are you seeing any opportunities are you more or less excited as you see better economic activity to add to the payments portfolio? Yes I am really loving it I mean we have it.
One of the things I often say to you Nancy directly and the others is if you like us now you are going to love us all when things get better.
But one of the things that we havent talk much about is the R&amp;D that we have been spending on payment mobile payments not thinking so much as payment which is a space we should be leading in.
And there are so many derivatives of what possibly happen and next that people wanting to pay for things and track things and move things.
And just about every single prototype we can think of testing all kinds of different programs and I look forward to the chance to showcase some of those outcomes.
Its our style not to talk about the things we are filing because I want to try them first and while I telegraph that to others and if they dont work then you will never know and if they do we will brag about it endlessly.
But I think payments its going to be that next step and I think of my response to the question that Bill or Brian asked I think its going to be the replacement fee opportunity for banks as we get to the more core checking cost and start getting paid for helping people see track and move their money more naturally and more quickly in this environment.
So I like payment for that reason and I like to diversify.
Andy told you government is turning the corner at least stop shrinking corporate is getting strong as some of these other green shoots weve seen in C&amp;I and the consumer based on credit volume year-over-year was up 9% debit was 5% and prepaid which is our favorite new space which we have created and graded up 22%.
So for us the payments is a good place to be and like the balance sheet if you like it now you are going to love it later but I think its entirely its actually favorably toward an increasing economy.
So we will cross our fingers.
And I have to throw in one thing Richard.
I havent heard the word darn since the last couple on Cassidy movie I watched.
I havent seen one lately and I cant tell you it came from L.A.
so I am not sure where it came from.
I think thats for Bill Bill would you darn.
Jackie do we have any other? Not at this time.
All right.
Thank you for joining our call.
Please call me this afternoon if you have any other question.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to U.S.
Bancorp's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon EDT through Wednesday October 29 at 12:00 midnight EDT.
I will now turn the conference call over to Sean O'Connor Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Tiffany and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorp's third quarter 2014 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thanks Sean.
And good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining our call.
I'll begin with a review of U.S.
Bank's results with a summary of the quarter's highlights on Page 3 of the presentation.
U.S.
Bank reported net income of $1.5 billion for the third quarter of 2014 or $0.78 per diluted common share.
Total average loans grew 6.3% year-over-year and 1.4% linked quarter.
Excluding the impact from the Charter One acquisition we completed in late June total average loans grew 5.9% year-over-year and 1.1% on a linked quarter basis.
In addition we experienced strong loan -- strong growth in average deposits and credit quality remains strong.
Total net charge-offs decreased by 3.7% on a linked quarter basis.
Nonperforming assets excluding covered assets declined on both the linked quarter and a year-over-year basis.
It generates significant capital this quarter.
Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio estimated for the Basel III standardized approach has been fully implemented.
It was 9% at September 30th.
We repurchased 16 million shares of common stock during the third quarter which along with our dividend resulted in a 78% return of earnings to our shareholders in the third quarter.
Slide 4 provides you with a 5-quarter history of our performance metrics and they continue to be among the best in the industry.
Return on average assets in the third quarter was 1.51% and return on average common equity was 14.5%.
Moving over to the graph on the right.
You can see that this quarter's net interest margin was 3.16% in line with our guidance.
Our efficiency ratio for the third quarter was 52.4%.
We expect this ratio to remain in the low 50s going forward as we continue to manage expenses in relation to revenue trends while continuing to invest in and grow our businesses.
Turning to Slide 5.
The company reported total net revenue in the third quarter of $5 billion a 2% increase from the prior year.
The increase was due to higher net interest income as well as higher revenue in most fee businesses partially offset by a reduction in mortgage banking revenue.
Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on Slide 6.
Average total loans outstanding increased by almost $15 billion or 6.3% year-over-year and 1.4% linked quarter.
Adjusting for the Charter One acquisition total average loans grew 5.9% year-over-year and 1.1% linked quarter.
Overall excluding covered loans which is a runoff portfolio average total loans grew by 7.7% year-over-year and 1.7% linked quarter.
Again this quarter the increase in average loans outstanding was led by strong growth in average total commercial loans which grew by 13.6% year-over-year and 3.1% over the prior quarter.
Total average commercial real estate also increased over the prior quarters with an average loans growing by 6.1% year-over-year and 0.8% linked quarter.
Residential real estate loans grew 5.8% year-over-year and 0.3% over the prior quarter.
Average credit card loans increased 4.9% year-over-year and were up 2.1% on a linked-quarter basis.
Total other retail loans grew 3.6% year-over-year and 1.6% over the prior quarter mainly driven by steady growth in auto loans.
Total average revolving commercial and commercial real estate commitments continue to grow at a fast pace increasing year-over-year by 12.9% and 3.2% on a linked-quarter basis.
Line utilization was relatively flat again in the third quarter.
Total average deposits increased almost $19 billion or 7.4% over the same quarter of last year and 3.3% over the previous quarter.
Excluding the Charter One acquisition the growth rate remains strong at 5.5% on a year-over-year basis and 1.7% on a linked-quarter basis.
Growth in low-cost savings deposits is particularly strong on both a year-over-year and linked-quarter basis.
Turning to Slide 7 in credit quality.
Total net charge-offs declined 3.7% on a linked-quarter basis and rose modestly on a year-over-year basis due to an unusually high recovery in third quarter of 2013.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 0.55% in the third quarter.
Nonperforming assets excluding covered assets decreased by 6.2% from the third quarter of 2013 and were essentially flat on a linked-quarter basis.
During the third quarter we released $25 million of reserves equal to the reserve released in the prior quarter and $5 million less than in the third quarter of 2013.
Given the mix and quality of our portfolio we currently expect net charge-offs to remain relatively stable in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Andy will now give you a few more details about our third quarter results.
Thanks Richard.
Slide 8 gives you see a view of our third quarter 2014 results versus comparable time periods.
Our diluted EPS of $0.78 was 2.6% higher than the third quarter of 2013 and equal to the prior quarter.
The key drivers of the company's third quarter earnings are summarized on Slide 9.
The $3 million or 0.2% increase in net income year-over-year was principally due to an increase in total net revenue driven by increases in both net interest income and fee-based revenue.
The company also achieved positive operating leverage on a year-over-year basis.
Net interest income was up 1.3% year-over-year as an increase in average earning assets was partially offset by a lower net interest margin including lower loan fees.
The $31.4 billion increase in average earning assets year-over-year included growth in average total loans as well as planned increases in the securities portfolio.
Offsetting a portion of the growth in these categories was a $1.4 billion reduction in average loans held for sale reflecting lower mortgage origination activity versus the same quarter of last year.
The net interest margin of 3.16% was 27 basis points lower than the third quarter of 2013 primarily due to growth in the investment portfolio at lower average rates lower loan fees and lower rates and new loans partially offset by lower funding costs.
Lower loan fees were due to previously communicated wind down of Checking Account Advance our short-term small-dollar deposit advanced product.
Noninterest income increased $65 million or 3% year-over-year due to higher revenue in most fee businesses partially offset by lower mortgage banking revenue.
We saw growth in retail and corporate payments merchant processing trust and investment management fees deposit service charges and treasury management fees commercial products revenue and investment product fees.
Noninterest income increased year-over-year by $49 million or 1.9% primarily due to an increase in compensation expense reflecting the impact of merit increases acquisitions and higher staffing for risk and compliance activities.
Net income was lower on a linked-quarter basis by $24 million or 1.6% mainly due to the increase of noninterest expense partially offset by a decrease in the provision for credit losses.
The second quarter of 2014 included 2 previously disclosed notable items impacting non -- other noninterest income and other noninterest expense that together had no impact to diluted earnings per common share.
On a linked-quarter basis net interest income increased 0.1% due to an increase in average earning assets mostly offset by a lower net interest margin including lower loan fees.
Net interest margin of 3.16% was as expected 11 basis points lower than the second quarter.
Principally due to the growth of lower rate investment securities and lower loan fees due to the Checking Account Advance product wind down.
On a linked-quarter basis noninterest income was lower by $202 million or 8.3% primarily due to the second quarter Visa stock sale lower mortgage banking revenue and lower commercial products revenue partially offset by higher deposit service charges corporate payments products' revenue and trust and investment management revenue.
On a linked-quarter basis noninterest expense decreased by $139 million or 5% due to the second quarter FHA DOJ settlement in Other expense partially offset by Charter One merger integration costs and higher mortgage servicing-related costs.
Turning to Slide 10 our capital position is strong.
Beginning January 1 2014 the regulatory capital requirement effective for the company followed Basel III subject to certain transition provisions from Basel I over the next 4 years to full implementation by January 1 2018.
In addition beginning with the second quarter of 2014 the advanced approaches portion of Basel III became effective for the company.
A common equity Tier 1 capital ratio estimated using in the Basel III standardized approach as is fully implemented at September 30 was 9%.
At 9% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement.
Our tangible book value per share rose to $15.66 at September 30 representing a 13.3% increase over the same quarter of last year and a 2.6% increase over the prior quarter.
I'll now turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Andy.
To conclude our formal remarks I'll turn your attention to Slide 11.
We remain focused on extending our advantage which is our theme for 2014.
Our consistently solid financial performance is a result of our adhering closely to the core fundamentals of controlling expenses of managing capital prudently and selectively investing in initiatives that generates steady long-term growth and expanding existing customer relationships.
That was certainly the case in third quarter as our disciplined approach produced positive operating leverage.
As we head into the final quarter of the year we remain diligently focused on executing our plan even with the ongoing economic headwinds with an emphasis on providing our customers with the trusted products and services to help them build more secure financial futures backed by the financial strength of U.S.
Bank.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Bill and I would now be happy to answer any questions from the audience.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Paul Miller of FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is Jessica Ribner in for Paul Miller.
We just have one question.
It's just taking into account the recent changes announced by the FHFA in terms of the 3% down payment and some reps and warrants clarity does that change the way that you think about originating down the credit spectrum in the mortgage space? Or how do you guys view that? It really doesn't.
This is Richard.
It's a good sound bite but I think the test comes in whether or not there's a private market for investors to pick up these loans with lower or no down payment and I'm not sure there will be.
So we're going to continue to stick with the FHFA Freddie and Fannie deals that we originate that we sell off.
We'll continue to originate loans that we hold on the balance sheet for our more well-heeled customers.
And we'll continue to watch the progress in this space because we like very much to feel more comfortable making loans with I'd say either a lower FICO or with less down payment.
But unless we're convinced that the rules are going to be permanent and there's not going to be a look back or a reach back in future times or that there won't be a market for this we're simply going to stay on the sidelines in the concerns of both compliance risks and other uncertainties and we'll just continue to do what we're doing now which I think is sufficient for the near term.
Research Division</strong> And what do you -- just a follow-up to that.
What do you think would -- what do you think that they would have to say or come out with to make you more comfortable in that space? Because you were talking about a reach back or something like that.
Right right.
No that's a great question Jessica and I'm not sure I have the answer to that because I'd have to see it believe it and then test it.
And so it's going to take a while for me to have a belief that this litigation risk isn't as great as compliance risk which used to be both less important than credit risk.
So when you think about all the risks we have credit risk we can manage.
We've done that through the whole cycle and we did it well before.
In terms of litigation risk that's kind of the new uncertainty.
And with the statute I think of time coming up on us there may be a softening of some of those look back reach back.
But in where I started there's a private market out there that's got to say they want to buy these loans without the guarantees and they've got to be willing to take those loans on with those lesser quality customers under the risk that perhaps they won't repay.
And that's going to be a market that's going to be tested over time with the number of players that will have a chance to come in.
And once we see that appetite that will probably be the first evidence we'll be looking for.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering about the outlook for the net interest margin next quarter.
Andy could you give us some other puts and takes for the margin and what kind of outlook you have for net interest margin and net interest income growth? Sure John.
So if you think about the third quarter versus second we were down 11 basis points and that was 3 things.
One -- the first is 5 basis points for CAA and that's done.
So that won't repeat in the fourth quarter.
The second was about 3 basis points for the securities build and that will continue on in the fourth quarter.
We ended this quarter at about $96.5 billion.
We'll end the fourth quarter just over $100 billion.
So we'll have additional migration down because of that 3 to 4 basis points.
The third factor was the loan mix.
Most of our growth was in wholesale as opposed to retail and that was 2 to 3 basis points of pressure.
That will continue likely into the fourth quarter also.
So all in down 5 to 7 for the fourth quarter but I still expect net interest income to grow.
And then finally that pressure on securities build will diminish will go away beginning in 2015.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You'll be done you think by the first quarter? We'll -- our expectation is that we'll end this year at or above 100% on the LCR ratio.
So our net securities growth will be more consistent with the overall balance sheet growth as opposed to building additional to meet the LCR ratio.
So John NIM compression.
All that remains for '15 is loan mix and interest rates in general.
But we've really gotten rid of the other variables that have been moving all through this year taking the number down.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Richard could you give us some color on your feelings about loan growth from here both just kind of the absolute level of growth you're looking for and then the mix factors? I'm feeling pretty good actually.
So let me just -- I should say this to all of you.
First I'm glad to see that you're even on the call.
I thought being last we might not have anybody come to our party.
We always announce our earnings...
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Reporting with 10 other banks this time? Well I'll tell you what.
Who cares about what we have the say now right? We have always announced earnings on the Wednesday after our Board meeting and the Board meeting has always been the third Tuesday.
For the first time in my years as CEO my 8 years as a CEO the -- that created [ph] the fourth Wednesday.
And so that's why we're still late in the cycle I'm talking to all of you a week later.
We've amended that with the Board and we're going to go back to announcing on the third Wednesday.
So this will be the last time we have this trailer keeping you from writing your final reports.
And so I just want to make that clear.
By the same token though I have this great visibility and clarity I've never had before and what the other banks have been saying.
And so I'm going to say we're generally positive about loan growth and I'm saying that for the following reasons.
As Andy indicated we had the 1.4% linked quarter growth.
If you take out the Capital One acquisition it's 1.1% and that's right in the range of what we telegraphed.
And we're going to telegraph that again for quarter 4.
We think we're in that same place as we are still moving into the early stages of the fourth quarter.
We're seeing it across the board too John.
So I mean we're seeing in Wholesale Banking.
We're seeing people continue to support capital expenditures particularly in large ticket leasing and in corporate banking.
We're seeing the pipeline across all energy -- industries stronger as the year ages which is pretty positive.
We're also seeing the leverage portion of the market remains pretty fast-growing but we don't participate much in that and there's a regulatory oversight that's more heavy at this point in time and so it doesn't affect us near as much.
And then a strong market bond market is still strong.
So that does take some of the loan volume away.
But overall we don't see anything less than we've seen in the last couple of quarters.
Commercial real estate still pretty strong.
If you look at the West East Coast and you take kind of the smile down to Texas and you move around we see it's pretty active across most property-buying areas.
We're seeing some investors getting into the central part of the country Minneapolis Denver and Phoenix places like that.
Property types are looking good.
Apartments retail offices lodging properties and we're seeing people get lines of credit and using their lines for property acquisitions.
And then we're seeing also nice strength in home equity.
For the first time we're actually putting more on the books than are running off now that we're in that part of the cycle.
Auto loans continue to be a strong point for us and credit cards are growing nicely and are expected to as you might expect in the fourth quarter seasonally get even stronger.
So I mean 1 to 1.5 and probably right around this 1 to 1.2 that we've been at isn't robust but it's pretty solid.
And what we're seeing is nice consistency and our pipelines would reflect not only what we're hearing anecdotally but the real facts that we've got some loan growth still well into our future.
Having low interest rates isn't great for income but it's pretty good for lending and people continue to see that benefit.
And we have that cost of funding advantage we've told you about allow us to lend to the highest quality customers at a preferred price and we're going to keep doing it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a little bit more led by the commercial which is the loan mix impact on the NIM.
Yes I think it's very much the same.
What you'll seen in the last few quarter will be very much the same dominated by C&amp;I but started -- consumers starting to vie for its position now.
Quarter 4 will be strong consumer with credit card but will still be heavily mixed toward C&amp;I which will still put some pressure on NIM.
But as we talked it starts to wane later into the process.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One quickie on the noninterest income.
The credit and debit card revenues were a little lighter than expected.
You mentioned rewards costs in the write-up.
Is that kind of the new cost of business in a reward-centric world here? Is it -- any kind of onetime catch-up in there? This is Andy John.
So 2 things.
One is just a number of processing days this year -- this quarter of 2014 versus the third quarter of 2013 caused a couple of percentage points decline.
It was 90 days versus 94.
So that's just the nuance with the number of business days.
And the second thing was the rewards which is a little bit elevated but I would expect it to be at this level or slightly downward in the future quarters.
But if you think about it cards on a core basis x the processing days was up closer to 5% to 6%.
Your next question comes from the line of David George of Baird.
Research Division</strong> Richard I wanted to dovetail to John's question.
It's more a big picture but it's a very popular macro topic and that's rates.
Wanted to get not so much your views on rates but more from the perspective of how you're thinking about running the company allocating capital making incremental investment et cetera.
Do you run the company any differently if rates stay here longer than people think? And any kind of industry implications that you think that emanate from that to the extent that macro backdrop persists.
Yes David that's a great question and we're still evaluating our final view on what the rates will be because just a couple of weeks ago it might well have been a different scenario right based on what the prevailing view was that rates will start moving up in the middle of the year and now people are thinking later next year.
Here's how we've been running it this year.
So it was February 15.
I remember the exact date.
Exactly the center of quarter 1.
And remember it was a very tough winter quarter for every business.
And we decided to adjust our plan all of 45 days into the year and we placed a hold on FTE in the company.
Let me repeat this as I told you about this last time too that it's -- it's a response to your question.
By placing hold on FTE we didn't put in a hiring freeze.
So if you have 881 people in your division you can have 881 people.
And in fact I'm going to encourage you now more than ever to make sure that the 881 best people you could possibly have because there's no limit on the quality of the people in the organization.
But you can't go to 895 and you can't get to 906 until we see a revenue environment that's a little bit stronger.
And so but for our compliance and compliance-related activities where we didn't put any kind of a hold based on what we think is appropriate regulatory focus we've been doing that with quite good success.
You might imagine one of my challenge is to have the employees of this company feel proud that because they're working harder is why we're doing well as opposed to make them wonder why we're doing so well and why am I working so hard.
And we were trying to get that conversation organized properly but I wouldn't hesitate to ask the employees to continue to do that onto the next year if that's what the environment's going to state because we really do want to give you guys positive operating leverage to our shareholders on an annual basis I've always said not in any 1 given quarter.
And the way to do that is to decide what your revenue guardrails will be and then to stay within those based on your expenses.
And with the cost of healthcare and the cost of merit increases what's left is to make sure you've got enough to not overspend before you have the revenue.
So we won't do more of what we did this year the longer rates stay low or flat next year.
By the same token the minute we believe they're on their way up we'll start to release some of those levels of limits and start moving forward more quickly.
Let me also clarify before I hear it my own way that we're not slowing down on our investments or our capital expenditures or some of the longer-term necessary things you need to do to be ready for our future.
So we're putting all that into that long-term view of what's most important and prioritizing so we're still spending money.
And as you know our expenses are still growing just at a level less than our revenue and that's how we'll continue to do it.
But I will agree that the minute rates start moving up and we see evidence it gets a lot easier to run a company this long into a recession and a downturn.
The next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My first question is Richard you have always taken advantage of increasing your market share when your peers are challenged.
And based on Governor Tarullo's speech it sounds like some of your larger peers may have to contend with higher buffers on common equity Tier 1.
I guess I'm wondering if that does transpire and you have some of your larger peers operating it 11.5 12 12.5 does that -- do you think that presents a further opportunity for U.S.
Bank being that you would be under that G-SIB requirement? I'll tell you Erika I think it's just a continuation of the benefits we've experienced because first of all you know that even if that occurs it doesn't have to be overnight.
And not unlike us but most things as we continue to get healthier are creating capital.
So I don't think that's a real burden for them into getting there.
And I don't think it's any different than it's been for the last of couple of years as we've been a SIFI and they've have been G-SIFIs.
But I do think at the end of the day our ability to be more profitable be more attractive to shareholders and have a simpler easier company to understand and invest in I think that continues to become more and more obvious and that's why we think we're in a particularly good position where we are as the first non-G-SIB and I think there are advantages many of which are continuing and some which might get a little stronger.
But I don't think that very event changed any near-term outcome and it just continues to remind us how fortunate we are.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just a follow-up question to that.
As we think about long-term capital return prospects for the company which ratio should we think of as your binding constraint the standardized CET1 or advanced? Standardized Erika.
So our advanced ratio's 200-plus basis points above our advanced so our standardized will be our binding constraint and our target is 8%.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of questions.
One a follow on to that.
On the funding side is there an opportunity here with the rate environment to maybe reset reduce some of the longer-term funding cost that you've got? Yes Betsy.
So when I gave you my expectation for rates into the fourth quarter and stability into next year it reflects the fact that we have some long-term debt coming due and that will be refunding or repricing it at a lower rate.
Research Division</strong> And you could even take advantage to do more than just what's coming due or no? I think our focus will be on what is maturing which is planned over the next 12 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately in the payment space obviously you've got a great position with effectively a closed loop or pretty close to a closed loop.
Could you give us an update on how you're thinking about your own digital wallet as well as broadening out use of tokenization for security-related purposes beyond just payments? Yes.
Well those are different questions.
Digital wallet I think you know we continue to invest in virtually every scheme we can find and each partner that we have many of which we don't announce.
It's not our plan to announce things until onset.
But I'll just remind you that we are both a leader in mobile banking but even more so in mobile payments because as you said we have a closed loop capability.
We've got all sides of the equation and we're leveraging that.
I might also say that -- it wouldn't surprise you but we do a lot with customers.
We have certain customer groups that we've put together that help us think through the next best ideas.
And we gauge the tenor and interest of some customers both small and large into what kind of things they may want.
A closed loop as you know it has to be a large enough critical mass that there's enough interest in all parties to see the benefits of staying outside of the we'll call it the normal freeway.
And we still haven't found that combination yet and I don't know that we will.
But we're going to keep looking for it and do our very best to use that digital environment that's advantage to us with that firing business to check it out.
As it relates to tokenization we're very fond of that because not only are we involved in it but particularly through the clearing house we're working on a tokenization project for all the 24 largest volume banks in the country.
Clearing house as you know the half owner of the ACH system the other half being the Federal Reserve.
And so we're working with them on tokenization.
And answering a question you didn't ask tokenization really will solve a number of these issues which in the interim look like they're being solved by the chip card or the EMV solution.
Those are really just a different alternative to a magnetic stripe.
And at the end of the day this tokenization is going to give us all the protections we're seeking.
If you think of the Apple Pay that's tokenization plus biometrics which allows for a different kind of protection and there'll be all kinds of combinations.
But look banks are going to seek whatever it can we can to have lower fraud losses because as you know most of these hacking circumstances whether we issue the cards now or later if there's any losses the banks take those losses and there's substantial amounts of money that have been in our run rates for years.
And to the extent that we can find a way to make the customer safer not make them feel burdened by having to become safer it reduces our fraud on the other side and it creates a safer environment.
Tokenization is going to provide a great solve to that and then cybersecurity also gets an advantage as to higher levels of authentication.
So I'll just say to answer your question we're at the leading-edge of all those topics either because of our position in the association or because of our capability being a full-on payments provider and we're testing all kinds of different scenarios and yet I have nothing grand enough to announce to you here because we haven't found the holy grail yet on closed loop and we're continuing to watch for it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But also on tokenization just to be clear you could see the opportunity to use that technology not only in payments but also in your own internal peer-to-peer or customer access to funds and funds transfer? Yes.
And it's probably not tokenization as much as there could be a number of versions of closed loop more protected interchanges between let's say large banks that could do things much more quickly.
That's a different answer as we're talking about a faster payments network and moving away from the 24-hour cycle.
And we're announcing I think very soon that we're all going to be working on faster payment cycles.
The precursor to that though could be bank-to-bank or large entities-to-large entities doing intra-day transfers on a trusted basis like you would with a friend and accelerating what would otherwise be the natural and final evolution of the entire payment system from a 24-hour cycle to a real time.
That's probably a couple of years away but following the path of some other places around the globe and following the favor of customers we're all working on that and I think that's something that you'll be hearing a lot more about in the next couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Yes that makes a lot of sense especially given the Fed white paper that asks for 10 years which seems way too long.
So then last question just slightly separate topic but the progress on the near-prime push in auto.
Could you give us an update on how you're thinking about that and how that's impacting pretax margin? I'm going to have Bill answer that question.
It's been successful.
It's enabled us to provide a broader spectrum of yes answers in the dealership office.
So -- and we've expanded our -- in our presence in the used car market as well.
And it's positive on the net -- overall net interest margin on our indirect dealer book.
So it's doing well and it's performing as we expected.
In broader context if we recall so just being a prime lender to an auto dealer now that we're doing used auto and some near-prime and the prime we get a higher shot at getting their floor planning and getting the rest of their business because now we're in all the categories they want not just selectively picking prime.
So there is another advantage.
And I also should say we've been a leasing bank for 61 years which is back when leasing started.
So we've got a long tenure there that I think in a less competitive environment for auto leasing we're going to continue to expand that.
And as rates go up trust me that's one of the first things you'll see is people flipping from loans to leases for payment.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the expenses Andy.
I heard your comments about that kind of in the other there seemed to be kind of a plus or minus some offsetting.
So is this the kind of the right base for expenses going forward? And to Richard's comment about staying in the low-50s efficiency ratio what does that imply for the ability to deliver operating leverages? Is it really just about getting rates up at some point from here? Right Ken.
So in the third quarter we had a couple of items that are not going to repeat.
We had about just under $20 million of conversion-related expenses principally related to our RBS acquisition or Charter One acquisition in Chicago.
Those will not repeat into the fourth quarter.
The third quarter also continues to build our tax amortization for our CDC company and that will continue to increase in the fourth quarter.
That's just seasonal.
And in the fourth quarter typically it's about $75 million or $80 million higher than the third quarter.
So you'll see that and that again comes down in the first quarter.
All in though I do expect positive operating leverage in the fourth quarter and I do expect our efficiency ratio will continue to be in the low-50s.
You know what else Ken we're not there yet but I think the -- we're probably at the highest level of total compliance and audit-related cost we're going to have over this cycle.
I don't see them coming down right away so I'm not saying that.
But they aren't sustainably this high for the long term.
So there will be another advantage and it happen probably sometime next year where just the run rate and the expenses start to come down a bit based on some of the focus we've all had and certain categories that we'll settle.
And so it's not immediate.
But I think it would be improper to believe that our current expense base related to all that this very quarter or the ones you've seen in the last couple are the normal high rate because they're not going to be that high.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Okay great.
And just a second question on just the mortgage business.
This quarter you had a huge jump in origination volume and it looks like the apps are pretty flat and it looks like the MSR hedge came down as you had forecasted for us a quarter ago.
So can you just walk us through the drivers from here on the revenue side in the mortgage business? Right.
So in the -- as you mentioned in the second quarter we had a gain on servicing that did not repeat in the third quarter.
If you stripped that out we're relatively flat.
And actually application volume was also relatively flat.
Fourth quarter is typically seasonally lower.
I would expect that to occur this year and that will result in revenue being a little lower.
I would call somewhere between 5% and 15% principally due to seasonality.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on your funding advantage.
It hasn't arguably been as much of an advantage as it could be given the strong deposit growth that we've been seeing across the industry.
But I wondered if you thought that my change particularly if QE is indeed over after this month and deposit growth starts to slow not necessarily turn negative just slow.
So I guess a 2-part question.
First do you think deposit growth will slow with the end of QE? And then secondly would your funding advantage become more valuable in that kind of environment assuming that loan growth continues? Right.
So Bill we do assume that at end of QE or when rates start to rise we do assume an outflow of deposits.
That's part of our rate sensitivity analysis and I do think the funding advantage will become more explicit and clear when that occurs.
It's there now because we still have some debt on the books and I think that advantage shows itself but it will show itself more as more debt replaces deposits as rates move up.
And importantly about 15% of our deposits are corporate trust-related which are less sensitive to rates moving up so it's more a function of the operating model of the Corporate Trust business.
So that helps us retain a core level of particularly DDA deposits that will be helpful as rates move up.
Research Division</strong> Great.
But I was hoping maybe to follow up on that Andy.
If maybe you could separate for us the rise in rates which there are some concerns that that's being pushed farther out in the end of QE which many believe is still going to happen this month.
So if we have that scenario where maybe we just set the higher rates aside for a second and just look at the impact of QE coming to an end would that alone be enough to slow industry deposit growth and bring the funding advantage to be more -- play more of an important role? I think what will slow the deposit growth will be a growth in the economy and as business to start to invest more in growth and expansion and such I think the first place they'll go is their own funds which are currently in our balance sheet and I think that will be the principal change.
And then secondly as rates start to move up the opportunity cost to having money in DDA goes up and I think you'll start to see a shift out of DDA.
But when the economy starts to grow the first place before we see loan growth we'll see deposit declines.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I wanted to also follow-up on some of your comments about auto.
Regulatory intervention has been in focus in auto finance and I was hoping maybe you could just share any thoughts on the potential for the CFPB to bring nonbank auto finance companies under its oversight and what that could mean for you and the rest of the banking industry and I guess particularly to the extent that there are some nonbank lenders who either get pushed out or see the cost of compliance rise.
Bill this is Richard.
I think until we see any evidence of the CFPB ring-fencing any activities with the non-banks we're just going to presume it will stay the way it is.
As you can see it didn't stop us as a banking industry to stay in the business.
We're dealing with a little higher level of risk as it relates to the fair lending rules and things that have been said.
But I think we've all gotten better at it and know what the risks are.
We still are the best I think providers of lending to the auto businesses because of our cost of funding and because we are more traditional banks.
I've heard the same thing you've heard and I appreciate the fact that they're going to get to some of the non-banks.
And I do think that if they were that will be net positive just because the operating paradigms will be the same for all of us.
But it won't change in the near term.
It wouldn't change anything we're doing at all.
And I don't think until we see evidence of it for some period of time like a year or more many of us are going to adjust any of our thinking based on that.
So it will take a while for them to decide which part of the space they want to get into what it means to oversee them what adjustments they may make.
And we'll take I think such a substantial amount of time that I wouldn't expect any adjustment for at least a year because it takes that long for something like that to cultivate.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Arfstrom of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a few follow-ups.
Bill can you just touch a little bit on auto charge-offs and where -- what's normal for your portfolio? There's a little bit of an uptick.
I'm sure it's explainable but just maybe give us an idea of what's going on there.
Well part of that is related to the expansion that we talked about earlier going into the near-prime space so some of that's coming to season.
And then seasonally there's usually higher losses in the wintertime and in the summer months.
So that's all relatively normal and just most of our book is still -- even though we did expand the low-end most of the book is still very prime high prime portfolios.
So the level of losses you see this quarter it'll be pretty stable from there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
Andy or Richard just on the risk and compliance spending I think that's good news that we're maybe at the peak.
But can you give us an idea of the magnitude maybe year-over-year in terms of spending and FTEs that you have devoted to risk and compliance? Think about the third quarter versus a year ago I would say we have somewhere between $30 million and $40 million of additional expense and the run rate related risk and compliance.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
But you're thinking that that is near the peak at this point? Yes.
But I also said it stays there for a while.
So in the midterm it goes down.
There's a new permanent level.
You didn't ask Andy for 3 to 5 years ago but it would be probably 3x what it was a couple of years ago.
And so we're getting to that place now and we'll just reassign some of the party.
Because compliance as you know isn't just a unit or division.
It's across every part of the business line.
So even myself team and the front lines all need to have a more of a compliance view or call it the first line of defense so every employee has to be thinking more appropriately about doing things perfectly the first time and therefore there's an extra cost in each incremental FTE.
So it's not just a group we bring in but it's the way of doing business.
And we've adding that to everybody's job over the last couple of years.
Plus we've been having outside third parties and we've added a bulked up staff in certain places to deal with regulatory issues to align with the new higher bar of heightened standards.
But once we get that settled I can see some of that going back down a bit as we get more efficient and as you know we're pretty efficient once we know what the rules are.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more on capital return.
Richard your sometimes quotes get taken out of context but you're on the record of saying that you think 2015 could take off.
I'm wondering if you feel like the capital return and the current range is appropriate for next year.
Do you feel like you can potentially return more? Do you feel like you need to retain some more for some maybe greater expected balance sheet growth in 2015? Just walk us through that.
Yes Jon that's a hard question right? But I'll tell you to the extent that we can operate and have now for at least 5 years in this is very low interest rate slow economy I think we have proven our ability to withstand a more challenging environment.
But we're looking forward to the moment when I think when rates move up it's less a proxy for the fact that we're poised to do better when rates move up.
It means that the economy is doing better and we get way more benefit out of that.
And so for me it's approximately when the economy starts to turn up.
We certainly think we can protect our capital positions that's for sure because we know how to manage in an environment like this.
But the sooner rates move up and again it's a proxy for the economy doing better the sooner we'll be able to telegraph that we'll be increasing our capital distributions.
Until we see that I'm going to stay in path and just indicate there's a positive bias that as soon as we see economy improve we're certainly safe on what we have but we're going to be careful on telegraphing when we can move up until we can see a more sustained revenue environment which allows us therefore to predict a higher level of capital return.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just maybe Andy a question for you related to expenses next year.
Questions have come up on a couple of earlier calls about pension expense.
I think you guided this year that pension expense will be down about -- will be down a bit from the prior year.
And I'm just curious -- I realize we're not at year-end when you set the pension rate and the -- or the discount rate and the pension expense but how are you thinking about pension expenses affecting your overall expenses in 2015? Sure Matt.
So if you think about '13 and '14 because of the increase in the discount rate we actually had a lower pension rate expense of about $130 million on an annual basis.
If I were going to reset the rate today I'd lose that $100 million or so because rates are back to where they were a year ago.
But as you said we won't know that until the end of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a question.
Richard I think you mentioned home equity loans were growing.
That's a relatively new trend.
Could you give us a little more color on where that demand is coming from? Are there any geographies that are growing faster in that product specifically than you've seen in the past? And I'm just curious about any color you can provide on competition from either larger regional banks or maybe some of the smaller local banks who are looking to get into that space as well.
Yes.
So now let's go back to the beginning.
U.S.
Bancorp balance sheet doesn't have an oversized home equity portfolio.
Never have.
And if you look back to just the mortgage business one of the things we didn't have going into the recession was an overly active sub-prime or near-prime mortgage business either.
So we're not feeding off of a lot of runoff.
We don't have a lot of deals that are coming due at their 5 or 7-year mark that might have been originated in the earlier days.
So we actually have a pretty core steady book.
So for us it's really simply a matter of the paydowns now are being outpaced by the new originations.
And again you look at the size of our portfolio it's pretty average.
And that's okay because the quality is very high.
The application levels are particularly high right now and we are very aggressive in our marketing campaign with an intro rate pricing feature and that's across the entire 25 states and that's serving us quite well.
I think when I was talking about our pricing advantages everyone on the call rightfully jumps to Wholesale Banking and thinks about the advantages we have on cost of funds based on our highest debt ratings and that transcends into better rates and competitive issues on adjustable rate.
But we can do it too on things like consumer products as long as we match-fund it properly.
And so we have a very strong new account pipeline going now and the activation rate is even more impressive.
So I'll give you an example.
Our 6-month activation rate a year ago was 61%.
So we get a line of credit on in 61% within 6 months later was being used.
That's now up to 77%.
And so that means that we're finding better customers who really want it and need it and are using it and increased that with the rate -- fixed rate lock option which is another feature we've included in our advertising.
And we are spending money to talk about it in both social media and in traditional marketing that that will be one of our leading products.
If you lived in our market like John does you'd see the commercials and you'll hear the commercials and you see some of the social media.
So we're putting a lot of energy because we really want that to turn permanently.
And we think that that's one of the best core quality types of loans that you can have.
And it's across the whole state the whole country for us particularly most notably in the western part where the balances on markets are growing faster.
So home appreciation is related which totally makes a lot of sense.
And I'd say our outlook for quarter 4 is to continue to see some growth in both the originations and the balance sheet.
So that's a pretty positive story off of kind of a slow starting point but with some permanents around it now which up until recently might've been just 1 or 2 months and then a fall backwards and I think we're on a sustainable growth -- pattern to growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Mustascio of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Andy I want to -- can you talk a little bit about the merchant acquiring business the underlying trends? What I'm trying to get at when I look at acquiring revenue per transaction that's down about 5% year-over-year and the acquiring spread is also down about 6% year-over-year.
A bigger a longer trend of deteriorating of those 2 metrics can you kind of give me some color of what's going on in that business from a kind of a margin and spread perspective? Yes.
So the DIA rate this quarter was about 40 basis points and it is down a little bit from a year ago.
Two reasons it's down.
Number one is that a little bit of the margin pressure as you talked about.
I think that's beginning to stabilize.
But we did see the last 12 months have some pressure on pricing.
The second factor is the mix of businesses that we acquire for.
So to the extent that where large retailers or airlines in particular that there's a little thinner spread there.
But I would say the decline related to margin pressure is beginning to stabilize.
The rest of it will be depending upon the mix of spend in the next 12 months.
Final question comes from the line of Mike Mayo of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I had a few follow-up questions.
First what do you estimate to be your deposit data? Yes mike this is Andy.
It ranges from 5% to 90% depending upon the deposit product.
So it's not just one number.
We're very detailed by product by line.
Research Division</strong> And on an average? On average it depends upon the deposit mix we have at any point in time.
But if we think about a few years ago where it was let's say 20 to 30 it's above that now because of the higher level of DDA and other activities we have.
So it's higher than it was in our modeling.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Richard you talked about the capital advantage and that gives you a pricing advantage with higher-quality borrowers.
And you said "Well it's not really anything new.
It's a continuation." But can you somehow quantify that? I mean you do have required regulatory capital that's significantly below your much larger peers.
And I'm just trying to figure out to what degree does that give you a pricing advantage which in turn allows you to gain market share? So Mike if you think about it we're assuming our SIFI buffer's about 50 basis points.
We don't know that.
That's our assumption.
That's when we get to our 8%.
So if you're a G-SIB that has a 250 buffer so let's call it 200 basis points more and you go through the math we would have about a 30 to 35 basis points advantage to achieve the same return or less than that and get a higher return.
So it is not insignificant.
It's a pretty significant advantage.
And Mike additionally which we talked about when we go in to market if we have to issue any kind of a debt we have an advantage to every other bank.
And whatever that time period is and however much that raise was we have that much delta to offer up.
And as I said earlier it could be the wholesale.
It could even be the consumer businesses and there's a net positive.
But here's the trick you only use it on the highest in quality customers because otherwise you're starting to dip down into things with loan losses and compliance costs and things you may not really understand.
So for us I'd expect you'll hear on other calls that the pricing competitiveness is still high and pretty peaked.
You haven't heard that here because we're either a part of the problem or we choose to use our funding advantage to be more competitive on price not on underwriting.
And for the most part most of the pricing seems to be pretty stable in the competitive environment as we see it so we're not feeling disadvantaged by it either.
Research Division</strong> So you'd go to the table and you're competing to get a large high-quality corporate client and you say "We'll price this loan 30 basis points less.
Give us your business.
Or 25 basis points less." Is that the conversation? I would say that's the conversation more for the middle market.
In a large client it's more of a national funding market.
And in that example I think what the outcome is that we have a high return for the same price.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> Isn't that somewhat similar though to other regional banks that also have a capital advantage versus the largest peers? Capital yes.
Debt rating no.
It's the 2fer.
Research Division</strong> And then the last question.
Richard to follow up before you said 2015 can take off.
It's right around the corner.
I think there are some quotes and data looks great and we're all thinking okay if Richard Davis is right this economy is set to take off and then you look at the 10-year bond which is saying the opposite.
So who's right? Richard Davis or the 10-year bond? Wow.
I've never met the 10-year bond.
I'm going to go with me.
But I'll tell you what.
I do think and I've said this before too I think the stock market is a head fake if people using that as a measure of the quality or the wealth of -- the intention of consumers to start spending and acting.
In fact in some respects the stronger the stock market it's because there's nowhere else to put it.
So I'm not changing my view that in '15 things turn around quickly and start to take off because when they do take off I think it's pretty likely they will be fast.
And again the pipelines that I'm talking about the customer intentions I'm talking about that's what we're waiting for: the final decision when rates start to move which will create this I think tsunami effect of people acting quickly.
I'm going to stick to what I said before and I think it's next year.
And when it does it happens fast.
I don't have any evidence that says otherwise and I'm not responding to the vagaries of 2 weeks of either 10-year interest rates or stock market variances.
I'm just going to stick with it.
That was our final question.
Presenters do you have any closing remarks? Well thank you for listening to our call and please call me this afternoon if you have any further questions.
Thanks.
Thank you.
This concludes U.S.
Bancorp's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to U.S.
Bancorp's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer and Andy Cecere U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon Eastern Time through Wednesday January 28 at midnight Eastern Time.
I will now turn the conference call over to Sean O'Connor Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Paula and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Andy Cecere Bill Parker and Kathy Rogers are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorp's fourth quarter and full year 2014 results and answer your questions.
Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our Web-site at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sean.
Good morning everybody and thank you for joining our call.
I'll begin with a few highlights from U.S.
Bank's 2014 full year results on Page 3 of the presentation.
U.S.
Bank reported record net income of $5.9 billion for the full year of 2014 or $3.08 per diluted common share.
We achieved industry leading profitability with the return on average assets of 1.54% a return on average common equity of 14.7% and an efficiency ratio of 53.2%.
Total average loans grew by 6.3% and average deposits grew a strong 6.5% year-over-year.
Credit quality continued to improve with an 8.9% decline in net charge offs and 11.2% decrease in non-performing assets.
Our capital position ended the year stronger with a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio estimated for the Basel III standardized approach as fully implemented of 9%.
In total we returned $4 billion or 72% of our 2014 earnings to the shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.
Turning to Slide 4 and our quarterly highlights U.S.
Bank reported net income of $1.5 billion for the fourth quarter of 2014 or $0.79 per diluted common share.
Total average loans grew by 5.9% year-over-year and 1% linked-quarter.
In addition we continued to experience strong loan growth strong growth in average deposits.
Credit quality remained strong.
Total net charge-offs decreased by 8.3% from the prior quarter while total non-performing assets declined 6% on a linked-quarter basis.
We continued to generate significant capital this quarter.
Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio estimated for the Basel III standardized approach as fully implemented was 9% at December 31.
We repurchased 11 million shares of common stock during the fourth quarter which along with our dividend resulted in a 66% return of earnings to our shareholders in the fourth quarter.
Slide 5 provides you with a five-quarter history of our performance metrics and they continue to be among the best in the industry.
Return on average assets in the fourth quarter was 1.5% and return on average common equity was 14.4%.
Moving over to the graph on the right you can see that this quarter's net interest margin was 3.14% and Andy will discuss the margin in more detail in just a few minutes.
Our efficiency ratio for the fourth quarter was 54.3% lower than the prior year.
Excluding the impact of notable items in the fourth quarter our efficiency ratio was 53.8%.
We expect this ratio will remain in the low 50s going forward as we continue to manage expenses in relation to revenue trends while continuing to invest in and grow our businesses.
Turning to Slide 6 the Company reported total net revenue in the fourth quarter of $5.2 billion a 5.7% increase from the prior year.
Excluding the impact of this quarter's gain related to an equity investment in Nuveen total net revenue increased 3.2% from the prior year.
The increase was due to higher net interest income as well as higher revenue in most fee businesses.
Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on Slide 7.
Average total loans outstanding increased by almost $14 billion or 5.9% year-over-year and 1% linked quarter.
Adjusting for the Charter One acquisition total average loans grew 5.5% year-over-year.
Overall and excluding covered loans which is a run-up portfolio average total loans grew by 7.1% year-over-year and 1.2% linked-quarter.
Again this quarter the increase in average loans outstanding was led by strong growth in average total commercial loans which grew by 15.5% year-over-year and 2.9% over the prior quarter.
Total average commercial real estate loans also grew increasing 4.2% year-over-year and 0.3% linked-quarter.
Residential real estate loans grew 2.2% year-over-year and were relatively flat on a linked-quarter basis.
Average credit card loans increased 3.6% year-over-year and were up 1.3% on a linked-quarter basis.
Total other retail loans grew by 3.6% year-over-year and 0.8% over the prior quarter mainly driven by steady growth in auto loans.
We continue to originate and renew loans and lines for our customers.
New originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments totaled approximately $53 billion in the fourth quarter.
Total average revolving commercial and commercial real estate commitments continued to grow at a fast pace increasing year-over-year by 13.3% and 3% on a linked-quarter basis.
Line utilization was relatively flat in the fourth quarter.
Total average deposits increased almost $19 billion or 7.2% over the same quarter of last year and 1.6% over the previous quarter.
Excluding the Charter One acquisition the growth rate remained strong at 5.5% on a year-over-year basis.
Growth in low-cost interest checking money market and savings deposits was particularly strong on a year-over-year basis.
Turning to Slide 8 and credit quality total net charge-offs declined 8.3% on a linked-quarter basis and 1.3% on a year-over-year basis.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 0.50% in the fourth quarter.
Nonperforming assets decreased by 6% on a linked-quarter basis and 11.2% from the fourth quarter of 2013.
The loss sharing agreement for the commercial and commercial real estate loans acquired from the FDIC which comprised the majority of the nonperforming covered assets expired at the end of the fourth quarter of 2014.
During the fourth quarter we released $20 million of reserves $5 million less than the third quarter of 2014 and $15 million less than the fourth quarter of last year.
Given the mix and quality of our portfolio we currently expect the net charge-offs and total nonperforming assets to remain relatively stable in the first quarter of 2015.
Andy will now give you a few more details about our fourth quarter results.
Thanks Richard.
Slide 9 gives you a view of our fourth quarter 2014 results versus comparable time periods.
Our diluted EPS of $0.79 was 3.9% higher than the fourth quarter of 2013 and 1.3% higher than the prior quarter.
The key drivers of the Company's fourth quarter earnings are summarized on Slide 10.
Fourth quarter results reflected notable items that in combined increased diluted earnings per common share by $0.01.
The notable items included $124 million gain related to an equity investment in Nuveen Investments and $88 million of additional expense comprised of $35 million of charitable contributions and $53 million related to recent developments in certain legal matters.
The $32 million or 2.2% increase in net income year-over-year was principally due to an increase in total net revenue driven by increases in net interest income fee-based revenue and the impact of notable items.
The Company also achieved positive operating leverage on a year-over-year basis.
Net interest income was up 2.4% year-over-year as an increase in average earning assets was partially offset by lower net interest margin including lower loan fees.
The $35 billion increase in average earning assets year-over-year included growth in average total loans as well as planned increases in the securities portfolio.
The net interest margin of 3.14% was 26 basis points lower than the fourth quarter of 2013 primarily due to growth in the investment portfolio at lower average rates lower loan fees and lower rates of new loans partially offset by lower funding costs.
Lower loan fees were due to the previously communicated wind-down of Checking Account Advance our short-term small-dollar deposit advanced product.
Noninterest income increased $214 million or 9.9% year-over-year due to higher revenue in most fee businesses and higher other income including the impact of the Nuveen gain.
We saw growth in retail and corporate payments merchant processing trust and investment management fees deposit service charges treasury management fees and investment product fees.
Noninterest expense increased year-over-year by $122 million or 4.5% primarily due to the accruals for legal matters charitable contributions and an increase in compensation expense reflecting the impact of merit increases acquisitions and higher staffing for risk and compliance activities.
Net income was higher on a linked-quarter basis by $17 million or 1.2% mainly due to the higher net interest income the impact of the notable items and a decrease in the provision for credit losses.
On a linked-quarter basis net interest income increased 1.9% mainly due to an increase in average earning assets partially offset by lower loan and investment security rates.
The net interest margin of 3.14% was 2 basis points lower than the third quarter principally due to the growth in lower rate investment securities partially offset by unusually high interest recoveries.
These unusually high interest recoveries added approximately 2 basis points to the fourth quarter net interest margin.
On a linked-quarter basis noninterest income was higher by $128 million or 5.7%.
This favorable variance was primarily due to higher other income including the impact of the Nuveen gain partially offset by lower mortgage banking revenue and seasonally lower corporate payments revenue.
On a linked-quarter basis noninterest expense increased by $119 million or 7.3% due to seasonally higher cost related to investments and tax advantage projects higher professional services and the notable items including the charitable contributions and legal accruals.
Turning to Slide 11 our capital position is strong.
Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio estimated using the Basel III standardized approach as if fully implemented at December 31 was 9.0%.
At 9.0% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement.
Our tangible book value per share rose to $15.96 at December 31 representing a 10.8% increase over the same quarter of last year and a 1.9% increase over the prior quarter.
Our return on tangible common equity was 20% for the fourth quarter.
Also we are complying with fully implemented U.S.
liquidity coverage ratio based on our interpretation of the final rolls.
I'll now turn the call back to Richard.
Thank you Andy.
I'm very proud of our 2014 results.
We reported record net income maintained our industry-leading performance measures and returned 72% of our earnings to shareholders.
These results are directly tied to the hard work and dedication of our employees.
In fact last week I had the privilege of leading our 9th Annual All Employee Meeting.
There was a pleasure to once again make this annual connection with our employees and to thank them for their contributions and for our success.
I'd also like to take this opportunity to congratulate Andy and Kathy.
Yesterday we announced that Andy has been promoted to the Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer where he will be responsible for our core lines of business.
Andy has demonstrated tremendous leadership as CFO and we are confident in his ability to manage our businesses effectively and execute our customer-focused growth strategy.
Kathy Rogers currently EVP responsible for Business Line Planning &amp; Reporting including the stress test process will replace Andy as Vice Chairman and CFO.
Kathy has been with U.S.
Bank for 28 years and has served in a variety of leadership roles within the finance organization.
Many of you have already met Kathy and I know she looks forward to meeting the rest of you very soon.
So as we head into 2015 we remain focused on extending our exceptional track record or financial performance for the benefit of our customers our employees our communities and our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Bill Kathy and I would now be happy to answer questions from the audience.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Jon Arfstrom of RBC Capital Markets.
Just on the topic of the promotion I think we're all big Andy supporters we appreciate the new role for him but can you maybe share what drove the change and is there anything you are trying to signal or anything that changes with the way the Company is going to be run and anything change in your role Richard? My role doesn't change but it is a chance for Andy to demonstrate the same acumen he's had in the financial role by running the revenue business lines and as we move through this transition I think as the economy starts to get better I'm quite excited to have him keenly focused on what leverage we can create as the economy picks up.
I'll continue to be running the whole Company but focus especially on the support teams and the compliance and the operating integrity that's gotten this Company to this point so far.
And it is fairly transparent it's a chance to give Andy an opportunity to prove that he can run virtually all parts of the Company in the eventual opportunity for him to run it someday.
Good thank you.
And then just a question on 2015 in terms of some of your targets historically you've had this 4% to 6% loan growth target and I think it kind of changes from quarter to quarter your level of optimism but are you feeling optimistic and do you feel is that the right range 4% to 6% and what does it take to get to the higher end of that? Yes Jon actually I'm optimistic.
So we've been sitting in that 1% to 1.5% linked-quarter for a while and this quarter you see we were at the lower end of that but for the year you look back and we are just short of 6% year-over-year loan growth and we're just projecting a higher number for 2015 slightly higher in the high 6 low 7.
So if we are accurate and we usually are then we see that as a small but steady continued improvement in loan growth.
Let me take you back to 10 years ago for those who remember though we are not going to be dissuaded by people who want to compare us to those who are growing loans faster in a given quarter because we never have been impacted by that but I could remember 10 years ago being questioned on a call like this for why our loan growth isn't as fast as someone else's and we're just not managing to that point.
We're managing to high-quality loan portfolio.
I think our quality of charge-offs and nonperforming assets will prove that.
And so tempting as it might be to tell you guys we're going to move to 1.5% to 2% linked quarter or 8% to 10% year-over-year the economy doesn't warrant that yet and we're going to continue to take market share on the pricing benefits and the quality benefits we've been using for the last five to seven years and as the economy slowly improves so will our loan growth but not remarkably and therefore in a few years you'll be satisfied that we have remarkably high credit quality and a continued stability on what we promised through the entire cycle.
So I think we're optimistic for all the right reasons but at a small incremental level from perhaps 1% higher year-over-year than we did in '13.
Okay.
Great thank you.
Your next question comes from Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.
When we met back in November we talked a little bit about outlook for investing in the business and some of the things you were asking the business unit heads to do and I guess I'm just wondering if the game plan to grow the business with kind of current headcount is still in place basically wondering if you're thinking about expanding at this stage to capture more market share or to do the same to grow the market share with the same? Got it.
I'll repeat it in a different way.
What we said was 2014 was the year that we'll continue to keep an eye on any discretionary expenses that would otherwise not be as important given the fact that expenses were going to be challenged and the fact that the economy was slow.
2015 I think like a lot of our peers we've adopted the Fed's interest-rate scenario which starts to move up in the middle of the year.
If that happens that's awesome.
But if it doesn't we're not entirely related.
It's not going to make or break this Company on whether interest rates move up.
We're going to control a lot of other things.
So the first half of '15 given Fed's interest-rate scenario it will a lot like all of '14 where we'll continue to invest where we have to we'll watch the discretionary investments and keep them perhaps defer them a bit until we can see a stronger economy we'll add the compliance operating risk areas audit areas where we think we continue to need to make sure we're at the right level of support and then when interest rates hit we're ready to pop and move on to some of these more discretionary investments.
What's really good about it though is we'll continue to grow market share we'll continue to do well even though there's really no underlying reason for it but the fact that the employees are just better.
They work harder they find more opportunities in each relationship our employee engagement is at record levels which I think informs employees that are engaged are intensely [indiscernible] where they can do more with whatever assets they are given and they'll continue to do it if they believe the Company's future is strong and that they are part of it.
So I'm quite comfortable that in the next six months we can keep doing what we've been doing.
If rates move up then we are all glad and we're going to move right on to start adding back but if they don't this Company still controls a lot of levers and we're not completely relying on whether rates move up and we'll just manage it one month at a time like we do every year and look forward to talking to you when things are better.
Okay so if rates don't go up there is still the hold the line to the line on headcount expenses? Yes except for the areas where it's either necessary or the opportunity is too great to pass.
There are plenty of things where you can get an ROI in the same calendar year with an investment.
I'm taking all those I can.
But some of those ROIs are three-year paybacks four-year paybacks they're great ideas but they're not necessarily the best investment at a time when you're trying to be prudent against an otherwise difficult backdrop.
So we'll hold those off for a while longer.
We have so far and it hasn't hurt us permanently and I don't think it will for another six months even 12 if we had to.
Okay so you can flex if the rate environment changes from the said outlook is the takeaway? You got it.
And then just the follow-up is on the auto leasing business we had some information over the last couple of weeks that [indiscernible] was going in house.
I'm wondering how that impacts you.
Not much.
I mean the headlines are sometimes just that.
For us the leasing business is part of our very big indirect auto lending and this is leasing and for us it's probably 10% maybe 15% of our leasing business which is a small fraction of our total lending business.
So it's not material in every sense of the word literally and figuratively and we do leasing with virtually every other party as well.
So this wasn't a core fundamental pillar of our success in auto leasing.
So we're not worried that we can't replace it pretty shortly.
Your next question comes from John McDonald of Bernstein.
Richard I was wondering your kind of high-level thoughts on how you are viewing the revenue to expense relationship unfolding in 2015 given what you laid out for Betsy in terms of your rate outlook how do you see revenues and expenses kind of in your base case this year and what are the key wildcards? So John if you look back on 2014 we grew revenue just a little bit over 1%.
This is kind of normalizing for all the noise we had and expenses were up just a little more than 1% slightly negative operating leverage.
So shame on us we're disappointed but it's the way it rolled out.
If interest rates move up in the middle of the year consistent with the Fed's recommendation we will see revenue in the 3% to 4% kind of range and expenses more in the 2% to 3% kind of range.
If they don't then we're going to have to struggle to get really close to positive operating leverage just like we did for '14 and to dwell on Betsy's question we know exactly how to do that without killing the future but it will be a lot less enjoyable.
We'll have to continue to get it through until we see interest rates giving us the benefit of higher revenue.
I just want to say we are positive we're extra positive of interest rates growing but based on our trust and payments business particularly more than most banks when interest rates move up for us it's because the proxy of the economy getting better that then triggers all kinds of benefits on our income statement a lot more than just the spread in the margin.
So we kind of see the way we're positioned we're kind of attuned for interest rates increasing because it's the fundamental reason that the increase is going to benefit some of our fee businesses.
But we're going to be positive we're shooting for positive operating leverage at higher levels of both operating revenue and operating expenses but to follow Betsy's question and time together if something less positive occurs we're able to adjust to it and we've got a team that knows how to manage that they've proven it and we're not going to disappoint you guys.
Great.
And just a nuance on the rates up scenario and your base case if the Fed does act in the second half of the year but we still see long rates low because of global issues how does that impact the outlook for revenue growth and is that an incremental challenge and Andy how do you manage through the balance sheet with long rate so low and does that create pressure on your base case scenario if the 10-year stays low like this? The short answer John is no.
The long rate is less impactful to us.
We're most impactful at the very short end and if you think about the middle then two to three years is where we have a lot of impact.
We don't have a lot of assets in our book that are at the 10 year and beyond mark so that's less impactful.
Again the short end is the most impactful to us both in net interest income as well as fee income because of the way we're using our money funds.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow up Andy what's your outlook for the net interest margin in the first quarter? Sure John.
So if you think about this quarter third quarter we were 3.16% this quarter we were 3.14% and frankly it was a little bit better than we expected and what we told you it was going to be.
And the reason for that part of the reason for that is we have usually high interest recoveries this quarter and I talked about that in my prepared remarks and that helped margin by about 2 basis points.
I would expect that to dissipate going into the first quarter.
So you think about our core being at 3.12% I would expect us to be down a few basis points in the first quarter from that 3.12% for the same reasons we've talked about which is the loan mix principally wholesale versus retail and then the last tail of our securities build.
So we sort of had first average part of it in the fourth quarter we'll pick up the rest of it in the first quarter.
And we are done.
We ended the quarter at $100 billion we're over the 100% LCR ratio.
So we're done with it but we'll still have a little bit of a lingering impact so down a few from 3.12% in the first quarter.
Okay something like 3% to 5% or 2% to 4% just something in that range? Yes.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bill Carache of Nomura Securities.
So given your loan growth expectations and the NIM commentary that you just provided can you talk about your ability to grow NII under the different rate environments that you've been discussing? We will grow NII on a year-over-year basis both the combination of what Richard talked about and what I talked about on rates.
So our expectation is net interest income will grow.
Now in the first quarter if you think about it on a linked quarter basis the first quarter has two fewer days and that costs us just under $40 million.
So absent that we'll be slightly relatively stable but the first quarter is a little down because of days.
Okay thank you.
I had another question on your payments business.
On the issuing side you guys reported a solid acceleration in payment volume growth this quarter.
Can you give us a sense of the interplay between pressure on purchase volume growth from lower gas prices on one hand and increased spending power that the consumer enjoys on the other does the acceleration that you saw this quarter suggest that the latter dominates the former or is it too early to tell and the acceleration is a function of something else maybe some color around that? I think the answer is yes lots of questions but latter does it from the former.
So here's the deal.
We've got this really great opportunity with our corporate payments not just our retail issuing to see that and government we can see pretty much where everything is moving around and we can see directly and very quickly the movement in the let's say first on the corporate side where corporate T&amp;E is still outpacing and we're still growing that even with the softness of the fuel prices so we're still seeing T&amp;E grow which is a pretty good sign that businesses are transferring some of that into other expenses.
Consumers are the same.
So anything related to energy or gas prices has been coming down but the ticket prices and the number of visits people have made to restaurants hotels and some of those discretionary things that they would spend money on had absolutely gone up.
So Bill we've seen at least in 90 days almost a perfect correlation from people still spending the money they're saving on gas through their debit credit or prepaid cards but they are spending on things that I'm sure that a lot of retailers and the restaurateurs are happy about.
So we see that evidence both at the consumer and at the corporate level.
That's really helpful.
On the acquiring side you guys also had nice growth but interestingly that reflected a little bit of deceleration which is kind of an interesting contrast to the acceleration that we were just talking about on the issuing side.
Can you talk about maybe what's driving that? On the merchant acquiring side part of that is seasonality.
So our fourth quarter is typically lower than our third quarter and that goes to mix of business a little bit.
If you think about the issuing side we have a lot of retail.
On the acquiring side we have less retail more airlines and the like.
And you think about when people buy tickets and so forth this is less so in the fourth quarter.
So it's more seasonal still we're showing good growth year-over-year same-store sales is just under 5%.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
I'm showing he disconnected.
Your next question comes from John Pancari of Evercore ISI.
Another question on the margin.
Beyond the first quarter want to get your thoughts on the margin progression.
Is it fair to assume 2 to 3 bps of quarterly compression mainly on competitive pressures on loan yield just want to get your thoughts there? So I would describe it as 2 to 3 basis points given flat rates more because of loan mix than competitive pressure although pressure is a little bit of it but it's more the mix.
Most of our growth is coming on the wholesale side of the equation and the wholesale has about half the yield of retail.
So that's what's driving that 2 to 3 basis points more than anything and again that assumes the rates flat to current levels.
Once and if and when rates start to move we'll start to see a positive rise there.
Okay alright.
And then separately on the expense items just on comp expense and the increase in fourth quarter was that all performance related just want to get an idea of what the driver was? In the fourth quarter we have normal activities going on in increases related to risk and compliance positions for the most part [indiscernible] headcount and [indiscernible] increases.
We had some increases in compensation expense related to incentives.
But if you peel those two things out it was relatively stable.
And John it was a full effect of our RPS acquisition in Chicago that had a full quarterly effect in quarter four as well but there was nothing unusual and it doesn't bode for any significant change in quarter one.
Okay alright.
And then lastly just want to ask on credit.
You released additional reserves this quarter and wanted to just get your thoughts on where the reserve to loan ratio could bottom out I mean you're still at a healthy level here they're around 167 basis points or so.
Bill? Yes it's 177 on allowance to loans all-in allowance.
I mean it's really a function of our mix.
That's why ours look a little bit higher than some of our peers so we have a higher percentage of credit cards.
So obviously we're comfortable with where it's at.
You see we have very very modest reserve release.
I think when that inflects really gets to the point of what kind of loan and commitment growth we see during the coming year.
There is a little bit more room for opportunity in some of the residential and home-equity products but at this point it's going to be more a function of loan and commitment growth going forward.
I mean the stability [indiscernible].
Yes the stability of our credit portfolio right now is the strongest I've ever seen.
It's just extremely all the loaners are performing well.
And there surely will be an inflection point for all the banking right where eventually you have to reserve for loans that you're making and [the future may go bad but] [ph] we're not looking at that inflection point in the near term for our Company we're simply not and we haven't been driving much income off of reserve releases so we don't have much to gather again from that but eventually we'll end up reserving for as opposed to releasing but we are not there now we're not there for a little while.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from Eric Wasserstrom of Guggenheim.
I just wanted to follow-up on some of the commentary on fee income growth.
I think for the prior year the security gains were about 4% of the noninterest income.
So as we think ahead to next year is the realization of those gains going to be something that continues as kind of a bridge to a better rate environment or were those really just opportunistic and we should really think about growth off of a baseline number of something like 8.8 billion? The latter.
So I think the notable items the gains that we talked about the Visa gain in the second quarter the gain from Nuveen here in the fourth quarter are one-time items that are not likely to repeat so [exempt] [ph] from that base that is excluding that think about loan growth in there.
Okay.
So I think absent those things the growth rate was about 1% in terms of fee income and it looks like the consensus for next year has about implied 5% growth off of that core number.
Is that an achievable level given kind of some of the acceleration that we've talked about or is that maybe a stretch? I think a key factor in '14 was the headwind that we faced in the first half of the year related to the mortgage and if you looked at the mortgage numbers they were down 13% 14% year-over-year which caused a tremendous headwind in quarters one two and a little bit in three and you're seeing quarter four we're actually flat for the first time in a long time in mortgage.
So I think the removal of that headwind will help us get to the numbers that are higher than we achieved this year.
That's a big deal.
We should have had the applause because that is a long anticipated moment where we're starting to grow mortgage again on a year-over-year basis.
That is a big number Eric so if you do the math you'll see that it's more than enough to accomplish that.
Your next question comes from Richard Bove of Rafferty Capital.
I got to ask as I think 30 000 feet high for a second when I look at your bank I can see absolutely nothing wrong.
In my view it's about as perfect as a company can get in this industry.
And yet when I take a look at Slide 9 I see that on a year-over-year basis the net interest income to common is up 0.6% I see that the EPS is up 2.7% and when I take a look at the price of your stock it's up 2.6% last year in a market that's up 11% and what I'm wondering is if a bank which is as close to perfection as this one is can't get its earnings to move up at a faster rate and can't get its stock price to do anything but move up at a rate one quarter that of the market what will it take to get this thing moving in a direction where the stock is going to equal or outperform the market? This is Richard.
Thanks for that observation.
I think U.S.
Bank moves best when everything is moving one way or another.
So the bank was 10 years ago a fairly considerate bank with a sense of all defense right we were an efficiency company no one ever thought about us making revenue which is save the next dollar we can merge and acquire companies and squeeze more out of that than anyone else and that was well-regarded and well-recognized.
Then the downturn hits and that was our first chance to prove like I said earlier in an answer to John's question that while we may not look like we are growing as much in the go-go times we also chose not to take risks and those showed up later when the economy turned and we ended up getting stronger.
I know you know this you've written about this we became a flight to quality a place of safety and we played on that.
So now here we are in kind of a flat slow slow recovery that's almost flat so we can't prove anything remarkable except to just say we're not going to disappoint we're not going to surprise we're not going to get complicated we're just going to get it out and do a little bit better than everyone else on all the basic tenants.
The next opportunity for us to perform is when the rates pick up because the markets picked up and to show that the Bank is repositioned now to be as strong as it ever was when it was on defense and be better than anyone else on offense.
So I'm going to hold your question in the rears until we get the chance to show you that when the recovery starts and because of our high credit quality our amazing pricing benefits that we have based on our debt ratings that we are going to be able to show you we can be even better.
And then I think the multiple comes back we even spread further from where we are because we're always sitting at this high multiple that people need us to be remarkable every quarter to prove and protect but we are looking forward greatly at the time when the world gets better and we can show you just how positioned we are for that and there's a lot we did in that period of time in the last five to seven years to position this Company as innovative payments focused trust leader and global.
So I'll look forward to that and I'll ask you to ask me the question again when things start to turn but I think it makes sense that we hold our own position of strength kind of the yellow flag is out on the racetrack but when the green flag comes out we'll take off first.
Again I have no questions with [indiscernible] I think the way you run the Bank is superb.
My issue I guess is and we heard it again last night in the State of the Union message will the government prevent the industry from reaching a level where it can show meaningful profit increases or will it come up with a new liquidity capital ratio supplement to leverage ratios loss absorbing capital ratios and special [indiscernible] for taking high levels of risk? In other words as you improve your Company will the government stay one step ahead of you and prevent you from showing the type of improvement that you're getting in the operation of the Company? I'll tell you I can't answer that because I don't know the answer but I will say that we're in a closed set of competitors right at least as banks go and we certainly wouldn't trade places with anybody else based on our current position our size the fact that we're a domestic city not a global city the fact that we don't do leverage lending we don't have high-risk portfolios and all I'm saying there is customers businesses they're all going to need banks and unless there's a huge alternative I haven't found out there they're going to need what they need.
[It worries me not] [ph] what the government does to impair our profitability we will be there first amongst few I think at the highest returns and the highest quality to be there to receive those needs from the customers and almost despite  because I mean look I mean Dick we lost $1.5 billion in the last four years over four or five specific government decisions on how to [indiscernible] income and we still had a record year.
So we can do this.
It's a lot harder it's a lot less satisfying and it's a lot less predictable but I think we've figured out how to do this and what we do is control what you can be very nimble and ready to adjust to the next opportunity and I for one can't imagine a scenario that would be any more difficult than what we have now so I'm looking forward to getting a little bit easier with a little more clarity.
But I agree it's complicated and I can't answer directly to your question because it's what I contemplate at 30 000 feet every day.
Your next question is from Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
This is Bryan Batory from Ken's team.
Apologies for the mix-up earlier.
I was wondering if you could provide a little color just on the starting point for noninterest expenses in the first quarter '15 just particularly thinking about the reset in other expenses and then also the potential pension expense increase just given where your long-term rates ended 2014? This is Andy.
If you think about the fourth quarter there are two unusual items in total.
The first is the total of the notables which is $88 million.
The second is our higher CDC or the tax advantage amortization which happens every fourth quarter.
That was about $60 million.
So if you take out that $150 million or so I would expect us to be relatively flat to that in the first quarter.
Secondly with regards to pension expense year-over-year we'll see about $100 million increase in pension of $25 million a quarter and that is reflected in the numbers I gave you in the first part.
Okay great.
And then could you provide some color on your outlook for mortgage banking revenues as we head into '15 just given the recent decline in interest rates? Good question and it's changing every day as rates move a lot.
We had a very good week last week.
But right now I will tell you that our expectation is relatively stable total revenue fourth quarter into first quarter.
So we have some pluses and minuses and that could change as rates move around in the next few weeks and we'll update you if it does but right now relatively stable.
Your next question comes from Mike Mayo of CLSA.
In terms of your outlook for loan growth so you're expecting an acceleration you said from 6% closer to 7% range and also your growth in commitments was up 3% so that's good.
On the other hand you mentioned that the unused lines of your commitments are still bouncing along the bottom I guess unchanged.
So once again we're at another quarter where you're expecting better growth yet the 10 year yield is significantly lower.
So who's going to win Richard Davis or the 10 year bond? [Indiscernible] 10 year yield Mike [indiscernible] I've been buying them and everything.
I mean actually you're playing into one of our thoughts.
I haven't included the improvement in utilization at all in our expectation if loan growth goes up.
That is an absolute stable starting point.
And the way we look at it wholesale commitments a lot of banks look at the total retail we look at wholesale and that number is at highest point in the mid-30s and today it's sitting at 24%.
It's been stuck there for about 18 months.
And so to me that is unbelievable upside.
As long as we keep adding commitments more than loans that means that more people have an open to buy with us and that they have an intent to use it because they're paying for it and so are we by the way but if they use it any part of it even a slightest movement from 24% to 28% or 30% that's going to be on top of the kind of loan growth we're anticipating.
So we're not counting on that to give you the answer and I do think that while customers look at the 10-year as Andy said most of them look more at the two to three and that movement is going to be what's going to trigger the decision on whether they want to grab something before it gets too late and whether they'll be glad they prepared themselves with the line of credit that's got an open to buy.
That has a lot to do.
I think there will be a tsunami effect when there is a period where people are sure that rates are moving up I think they'll start grabbing the lines they have they'll start using what they have and they'll be incentivized be a catalyst for this economy but until then we're not counting on that as part of our expectations to provide loan growth we're just doing with our better debt ratings our better pricing power and our really remarkable employees who've learnt how to tell our story better.
So just more generally put your economist hat on Richard so the 10-year seeing this much slower growth yet your guidance is for some acceleration in your loan growth.
How should we reconcile those two thoughts? On one hand and on the other hand [indiscernible] harness.
Mike I don't think those are directly correlated right now and I say that because the Fed and the Fed equivalent across the globe they've done some behaviors that are certainly not [indiscernible] and they are not things that we all learned in school.
To the extent that they are being motivated by I think non-financial more political activities and more financial data that might be backwards looking not forward-looking I'm not going to be able to correlate those two for you and I don't think our customers are sitting there thinking that way either.
So the 10-year stays low sure mortgage will look great and then we go back to this again but it doesn't inform our customers that the majority of this Bank until we get to two to three and until that starts to bend up we're going to stay right where we are and if the 10-year informs us fine if it doesn't it's probably going to be a bit of an inflection on the curve but I'm not managing to the 10 I'm in management of the two or three and I'm just not that smart.
And then lastly you're implying market share gains.
You said before that U.S.
Bancorp has a 30 to 35 basis point pricing advantage when pricing commercial loans against some of the largest banks.
Now that the SISI premium might go even higher for some of the larger banks could that pricing advantage improve and how are you positioning your Company to potentially benefit? The answer is yes because you know the math you knew the answer when you asked it and where we're positioned is we have a philosophy that we will give back some portion of that advantage when we're competing against one of the banks that has a different pricing scheme and we'll only do it with the high quality customer.
I suppose because the philosophy is in place if that spread were to widen then we give ourselves more room to be more competitive but it doesn't interest a new philosophy it's just more of a larger scale for us to use and to give our lending offer the opportunity to price more effectively.
So it's a net positive I'm not counting on it but if it happens we'll take it gladly and we'll be even more successful.
How much higher could that go with 30 to 35 basis points today could it go up another 5 10 20 30? The capital differential is about equivalent.
So if you think about your 35 on the side from the perspective of our debt rating it's an equivalent level on the side about the capital differential from the highest levels.
Your next question comes from Paul Miller of FBR.
This is Jessica Ribner for Paul.
On the mortgage side what are you guys seeing in terms of the purchase market? As most of your volume coming off the refi side do you see any recovery there? The third quarter was 70-30 new and because the rate is coming down a bit it's closer to 60-40 62-38.
So it's coming down a little bit more high on the refinancing side and we are also starting the year strong that way because of the low rate environment.
So I would expect it to be somewhere between that 60% and 70% new.
Okay great.
And just in general what's your institutional view on housing and the recovery do you think that we have room to go or where do you see mortgage banking? We do but more than just mortgage first mortgage right.
So we're already seeing it now on our home equity we're growing nicely in home equity.
Thanks for asking Richard.
Yes we're actually growing almost three times the market with our home equity right now and we're doing that because we're seeing a lot of people invest in property improvement kind of monies into their homes and not doing debt consolidation entirely they're doing it for their properties and these are in some of the states where they are the hardest hit where the pricings have come [indiscernible] come back nicely.
So mortgage in general has got a really nice I think outlook because people without houses now feel that they are no longer under water and they're willing to invest in them people without houses that are now above water are willing to use it as collateral for something else I think small business and housing prices slowly but surely are recovering.
I think there is a social question we ought to ask ourselves is how many 18 year olds who five years ago their mother or father lost their job or their house are going to want a house in the American Dream category three years from now when they're 25.
Don't know that answer but I know that the housing stock is not at all overbuilt for the number of people who either need to get back out of their parents' basements or get an upgrade in the house that they live in and we think it's a good business for us we're staying in it we want to be in the top five from here to forever and we're investing accordingly to make sure that we're great at originating loans and servicing them as well.
Your next question comes from Nancy Bush of NAB Research.
Congratulations Andy well deserved.
Richard there was a debate sort of brewing out in the wake of fourth quarter earnings which I think have not been particularly wonderful particularly for the largest banks about whether the industry can continue to cut costs without 'going from cutting fat to cutting muscle' and I'd like to get your view on that and secondly just from the perspective of your Company I think you go through this exercise every month of where you are in terms of expenses how do you make sure that you're not cutting muscle? I'd just like to get what you guys do and what you see for the industry generally.
A great question as usual.
Here are a couple of thoughts.
I do think  let's talk about the efficiency ratio it's what everybody looks at it's a fraction right it's a quotient.
So one of the reasons I think we can do well is because our revenue grows.
I mean there is a very basic fact like you all know that if you grow revenues faster than expenses your efficiency ratio comes down.
That's a fact.
Banks are usually two parts revenue to one part expense.
So it's important if I were to spend $100 million my team has got to get $200 million in revenue just to keep it to 50% efficiency ratio.
So those are some of the foundational points.
So number one if you grow revenue you can impact your efficiency ratio and still grow expenses because it's not like it's [Pioneer] [ph] where you can't grow expenses and we've been able to do that but not at the levels we want.
I do think the argument at the largest bank level is partly due to revenue.
I think banks could do better with their revenue but to the extent that that gets slightly impaired by certain actions they've got to watch their expenses.
And honestly I don't know why are banks in the 60% efficiency.
It doesn't make sense to me because if you watch every dollar there's plenty of money that is not necessarily shareholder friendly that's been spent and you can put a discipline in place where the employees own it first before you're telling them what to do.
So in other words we've never brought in an outside party to look at our Company and tell us how to run it or tell us how to cut expenses where you impose on employees some oversight if they didn't do themselves because number one it's intrusive number two it's really unnerving because if I have to cut 10 people out of a room of a 100 the rest 90 don't know if they're safe or they're in the next group to fall.
So I think that is another reason for us to be thoughtful is that banks need to watch their expenses very very carefully and I'm now going to answer out the other side of my mouth that in the last five years it didn't caused banks to be amazingly disciplined in knowing where their money is being spent.
I haven't got an answer for why as I thought there would be a ton of banks in the low 50s with this at this point in time.
I actually don't know why there isn't.
As it relates to U.S.
Bank we do meet every single month every capital expenditure at U.S.
Bank get ready for this over $100 000 has to come through a committee and that's a capital expenditure that includes particularly properties leases or any kind of technology improvement.
That's a very low number.
We look at about a dozen items every month and the whole team is the managing committee.
And so if somebody in commercial real estate needs a special new program that's going to cost them $100 million I got to look at the rest of 13 people and say are you willing to add $200 million in revenue over the next three years to offset this and guess what when the vote is taken by the group sometimes it's no.
But we all know that we've got to be able to return our investments in a fairly short time.
So in closing if we could do an ROI in everything in less than one year it gets approved here every minute.
If it takes two years it gets contemplated given the circumstances.
If it's finally more than three years we're very very careful and thoughtful about it.
So I know that we are not improving every single thing that lead to revenue improving three to four years from now I know we're not.
I also know we're improving everything that has the highest value in the next couple of years and the minute the world gets better I've got a list from most important to least important that will go right back into the coffers we will improve them immediately and the shelf is full of the next best ideas so that we don't linger and lose any time to get back to spending money.
So I didn't answer your question very well but it's the discipline knowing what you're doing put in the hands of the employees where they control their fate give them a forecast to show them what the decision is going to mean so they can make that decision on their own or collectively as leaders and they'll always make the right one and then they don't feel like they're being told how to run the place and they feel like you respect them for the qualities of their leadership that we do.
So that's my long answer to your question.
So I guess I interpret that as you're saying yes there is still lots of fat in the banking industry that can be cut? Yes I am saying that.
Why didn't I just say that? Why do I talk so much Nancy what's wrong with me? Yes that's what I meant.
Okay.
Secondly if I'm reading the news correctly the Supreme Court just refused to hear a case about swipe fees.
Am I reading that correctly? That's right.
And does that mean that this issue will now go away or do you think that the retailers are going to come back with some other new slant on this? I think in terms of a lifecycle it goes away for all of us on this phone.
It could go back come back in a few years and has another 10 to 15 year lifecycle but in this half-generation I think by all accounts exclamation point this one is dead.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
This concludes the question-and-answer session of today's call.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you for listening to our call this morning and please contact me this afternoon if you have any follow-up questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes your conference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the U.S.
Bancorp's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer and Kathy Rogers U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon Eastern Standard Time through Wednesday April 22 at 12:00 midnight Eastern Standard Time.
I will now turn the conference call over to Sean O'Connor Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Kalia and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Kathy Rogers Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today.
Richard and Kathy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sean and good morning everyone.
It's great to be here and to talk about U.S.
Bancorp.
I want to begin our review with the results of the summary of the quarterly highlights on Page 3 of the presentation.
U.S.
Bank reported net income of $1.4 billion for the first quarter of 2015 or $0.76 per diluted common share a 4.1% year-over-year.
Total average loans grew 5.1% year-over-year and 0.8% linked-quarter excluding the impact of the reclassification of certain municipal loans to securities at the end of the fourth quarter.
In addition we continue to experience strong loan growth and total average deposits.
Strong growth in total average deposits of 8.1% over the prior year and 1.1% linked-quarter.
The strongest first quarter deposit growth we've seen in several years.
Credit quality remains strong.
Total net charge-offs decreased by 18.2% from the prior year and declined 9.4% from the prior quarter.
Total nonperforming assets declined compared to both the prior year by quarter and on a linked-quarter basis.
We continue to generate significant capital this quarter.
Our common tier one capital ratio estimated for the Basel III standardized approach as fully implemented was 9.2% at March 31.
We repurchased 12 million shares of common stocks during the first quarter which along with our dividend resulted in a 70% return of earnings to our shareholders in the first quarter.
Slide 4 provides you with a five-quarter history of our performance metrics and they continue to be among the best in the industry.
Return on average assets in the first quarter was 1.44% and return on average common equity was 14.1%.
Moving over to the graph on the right you can see that this quarter's net interest margin was 3.08%.
Kathy will discuss the margin in more detail in just a few minutes.
Our efficiency ratio for the first quarter was 54.3% equal to the prior quarter.
We expect this ratio to decline and remain in the low 50s going forward as we continue to manage expenses in relation to revenue trends while continuing to invest in and grow our businesses.
Turning to Slide 5 the Company reported total net revenue in the first quarter of $4.9 billion a 1.9% increase from the prior year.
The increase was due to the higher net interest income as well as higher revenue in most fee businesses partially offset by lower loan fees due to the previously discussed wind-down of Checking Account Advance.
Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on Slide 6.
Average total loans outstanding increased by $12 billion or 5.1% year-over-year and 0.8% linked-quarter excluding the impact of reclassification of certain municipal loans to securities at the end of the fourth quarter.
Average total loans grew by 0.6% linked-quarter on a reported basis.
Again this quarter the increase in average loans outstanding was led by strong growth in average total commercial loans which grew by 15.1% year-over-year and 2.4% over the prior quarter.
Residential real estate loans were relatively flat year-over-year and declined modestly on a linked-quarter basis.
Average credit card loans increased 2.4% year-over-year and were seasonally lower on a linked-quarter basis.
Total other retail loans grew 3.5% year-over-year and 0.4% over the prior quarter mainly driven by steady growth in auto loans.
We continue to originate and renew loans and lines for our customers.
New originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments totaled approximately $38 billion in the first quarter.
Total average revolving commercial and commercial real estate commitments continue to grow at a fast pace increasing year-over-year by 11.7% and 1.9% on a linked-quarter basis.
Line utilization was relatively flat in the first quarter.
Total average deposits increased almost $21 billion or 8.1% over the same quarter of last year and 1.1% over the previous quarter.
Excluding the Charter One acquisition the growth rate remained strong at 6.4% on a year-over-year basis.
Growth in low-cost interest checking money market and savings deposits was particularly strong on a year-over-year basis.
Turning to Slide 7 and credit quality.
Total net charge-offs declined 9.4% on a linked-quarter basis and 18.2% on a year-over-year basis.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 0.46% in the first quarter.
Nonperforming assets decreased by 6.2% on a linked-quarter basis and 15.2% from the first quarter of last year.
During the first quarter we released $15 million of reserves $5 million less than the fourth quarter of 2014 and $20 million less than the first quarter of 2014.
Given the mix and quality of our portfolio we currently expect the total nonperforming assets to remain relatively stable in the second quarter of 2015.
While we expect the level of net charge-offs to increase modestly in the second quarter mainly due to lower expected recoveries.
Kathy will now give you a few more details of our first quarter results.
Thanks Richard.
Ill turn you to Slide 8.
This gives you a view of our first quarter 2015 results versus comparable time periods.
Our diluted EPS of $0.76 was 4.1% higher than the first quarter of 2014 and 3.8% lower than the prior quarter.
The key drivers of the Company's first quarter earnings are summarized on Slide 9.
The $34 million or 2.4% increase in income year-over-year was principally due to an increase in total net revenue driven by increases in net interest income and fee-based revenue and a decline in the provision for credit losses partially offset by an increase in noninterest expense.
Net interest income was up 1.7% year-over-year as an increase in average earning assets was partially offset by a lower net interest margin including lower loan fees.
Approximately $50 million of the reduction in loan fees was due to the previously discussed wind-down of our Checking Account Advance our short-term small-dollar deposit advanced product.
The $34.6 million increase in average earning assets year-over-year included growth in average total loans as well as planned increases in the securities portfolio.
Also at the end of the first quarter approximately $3 billion of student loans were transferred from the loan portfolio to loans held for sale.
The net interest margin of 3.08% was 27 basis points lower than the first quarter of 2014.
This is primarily due to the growth in the investment portfolio at lower average rates as well as lower reinvestment rates on investment security.
Lower loan fees and lower rates on new loans and the change in loan portfolio mix which is partially offset by lower funding cost.
Noninterest income increased $46 million or 2.2% year-over-year due to higher revenue in most fee businesses.
We saw growth in retail payments trust and investment management fees deposit service charges treasury management fees investment product fees mortgage banking and other income which was driven by higher equity investment gains.
Merchant processing revenue were relatively flat on a year-over-year basis was negatively impacted by foreign currency rate changes.
Excluding this impact merchant processing fees grew approximately 5.5% on a year-over-year basis.
Noninterest expense income increased year-over-year by $121 million or 4.8%.
The increase is primarily the result of higher compensation and benefits expense and higher other expense.
The increase in compensation expense is primarily the result of the impact of merit increases acquisitions higher staffing for risk and compliance activities and the variable costs related to higher mortgage production volumes increased benefits expenses due to higher pension costs of about $25 million for the quarter.
Other expense is higher primarily due to mortgage servicing related activities.
On a linked-quarter basis net income was lower by $57 million or 3.8% mainly due to lower net interest income and seasonally lower fee based revenue partially offset by a decrease in noninterest expense.
Net interest income was lower due to the impact of two fewer days in the quarter and a lower net interest margin.
The net interest margin of 3.08% was 6 basis points lower than the fourth quarter.
The 6 basis points decline includes approximately 2 basis points related to the unusually high interest recoveries in the fourth quarter which as you recall we discussed at the earnings call in January.
Higher interest recoveries continued in the first quarter benefiting net interest income by approximately 1 basis point.
The remaining decline in net interest income was principally due to growth in lower rate investment securities and lower reinvestment rates lower rates on new loans and a change in the loan portfolio mix along with the impact of higher cash balances at the Federal Reserve as a result of continued deposit growth which as Richard mentioned was exceptionally strong in the first quarter.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest income was lower by $216 million or 9.1%.
This variance is principally due to seasonally lower fee revenue in the fourth quarter 2014 gain.
On a linked quarter basis noninterest expense decreased by $139 million or 5.0%.
The decrease is due to seasonally lower costs related to investments in tax advantage projects the impact of the notable fourth quarter 2014 charitable contribution and legal accruals and lower marketing and business development expenses.
Professional services also declined due to seasonally lower expend in many of our businesses.
Partially offsetting these reductions were higher compensation and benefits expense due to increased pension costs seasonally higher payroll taxes and increases in variable compensation related to higher mortgage volumes.
Turning now to slide 10 our capital position is strong.
Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio estimated using the Basel III standardized approach as is fully implemented at March 31 was 9.2%.
At 9.2% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement.
Our tangible book value per share rose to $16.50 at March 31 representing a 10.1% increase over the same quarter of last year and a 3.4% increase over the prior quarter.
Our return on tangible common equity was 19% for the first quarter.
In March we received the results of the 2015 comprehensive capital assessment and review or the CCAR including the Federal Reserve's non-objection to our capital plan.
Subsequently we announced our new five quarter buyback authorization totaling approximately $3 billion effective April 1 and our intension to recommend to our board of directors the 4.1% increase in our common stock dividend beginning with the second quarter dividend payable in July.
I will now turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Kathy.
Turning to slide 12 you'll see the cover of our 2014 Annual report and you've seen the power of potential.
At U.S.
Bank we stand at the intersection of people and potential each and every day and we're privileged to serve as the caveats for all of our customers whether consumer small business wholesale or institutional to assist them by providing the financial tools and resources they need to achieve their full potential.
This positions us well for growth as our customers seek a strong banking partner to help them as they pursue their goals.
Next week we will be holding our Annual Shareholder Meeting in Louisville Kentucky.
I look forward to telling our shareholders of how proud I am of what we've accomplished and of the 67 000 remarkable and engaged employees that have contributed to our success.
We remain focused on producing consistent predictable and repeatable financial results for the benefit of our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Kathy Bill and I would now be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jon Arfstrom of RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks good morning guys good morning Kathy.
Richard maybe start with this -- just your view on the state of the economy.
You talked a little bit about your position for growth when the economy gains momentum.
Curious are you still as optimistic as you've been in previous quarters? Do you feel like the economy is gaining momentum? And then maybe update us on your loan growth outlook? Yes I will thanks Jon.
I remain very optimistic for the economy and for the great citizens of America a little less optimistic for the bankers until the interest rates start to move up.
So if you think about it consumer confidence continues to move up and particularly small business.
Even corporate confidence continues to move up but part of that confidence is found in their ability to operate more effectively during their day with more money in the bank more of a reserve and their lines that they've got a back stop of equity in their homes and the belief that right now they dont need to be indebted.
So for bankers that might not be as positive as for consumers and for businesses but it does reveal itself as people husband in cash and feel but better about their situation they did a few years ago.
As rates start to move up I'm still convinced of two things.
One will be that when there is a real sense that's about to happen there will be a tsunami effect particularly on the corporate and wholesale side that people want to lock down low rates before they finally get stuck having missed that opportunity.
And I think consumers will move from those who have here to who have been saving looking for some money now they'll start making some real money in their savings accounts and their endowments and their long term trust and I do expect people to start using their lines of credit again feeling the strength of an economy and a higher wage that will come with it.
So I'm super optimistic about how things are moving.
They are slow but steady but they'll continue to move forward.
But I do think until rates move up it continues to impinge the ability for banks to be particularly as financially successful as they will be when things get better.
As it relates to loan growth we were at 0.8% this year if you adjust for a little bit of noise and that's outside of our normal range of 1 to 1.5% on a linked quarter basis which is about 5% to 6% annualized number.
We're looking to get back into that 1 to 1.5% in quarter two as we look into this 15 days into the second quarter.
I'm also hopeful that as the year ages we'll see those increases a little higher to the ranges we were used to at the 1.5% to 2%.
So I'm starting to stick with our hope that we can get in the 6% range for loan growth on a year-over-year basis by year's end.
But for now the 0.8% for me is a little disappointing because I really want to stay in that 1 to 1.5% range but for you as an investor make it certain that we're not going to stretch on any kind of credit quality in order to accomplish those numbers until which time it is more natural and the customers that we serve have the need for their loans.
So I'm quite optimistic and yet a little bit hesitant until rates start to move.
Okay good.
That's helpful.
And then just maybe a quick one for Bill.
I know it's a small number but the incremental provision in energy can you maybe just give us an update of what you did and what your expectations are and maybe size the exposure for us? Sure so the energy loans are about 1.2 times of our total loans and the part of that portfolio that is most directly impacted by the lower oil prices is the E&amp;P portfolio.
It is roughly two thirds of that.
We have now run through that entire book with the new pricings back reflecting the much lower forecast obviously on oil.
And we have adjusted the ratings accordingly on that book and we did take an incremental reserve at the end of the year we've adjusted that now that we accomplished this on a loan by loan basis.
It all adds up to something that's really not that material in terms of our $4 plus billion loan reserve but it's all baked in now and we've done all the analysis and we update that pricing back at least two times a year.
So if we need to do it again we will.
Good that's helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley Q - Betsy Graseck Hi good morning.
How are you doing? A couple of questions.
One is just on investing in your people in an environment where rates are low and the loan growth is solid but not accelerating too much.
I am just asking the question with regard to how you are considering allocating resources to drive top-line growth.
And is there opportunity to pull back maybe on some of the non-client facing related areas to be able to put more feet on the Street? On personnel I wish but no.
We're not going to be able to slow down our incremental adds for first second and third line of defense as we call it but some plans in audit that's just a new world and even if thought we had everything right I'd still keep that one there double triple check that we are still doing things well.
So that has been the only place we've increased our FTE since I told you I think many times last year that in the middle of February of 2014.
So that's now 14 months ago we asked the employees but for those in the compliance areas to stay at their FTE level for all intents and purposes and to manage at a higher expected performance per person.
So that's not hiring freeze because there is a lot of turnover and when people do have 964 FTE in your group you can still have 964 but it does encourage you to manage the bottom performers out more swiftly and to increase the quality of the 964 people that work for you and that's where we are Betsy.
I'm not going to do a reduction in force.
We've hung on here for eight years and done quite well.
Our engagement I believe to be at the highest level it has ever been and I believe that the employees are deeply engaged.
They'll perform remarkably well for customers and shareholders will get their benefits.
So I dont want to mess with that formula but I am asking everyone here to work harder I'm working harder and we are asking everyone to appreciate the fact that protecting all of our current positions by performance is really the way to manage through these difficult times.
So that as the backdrop you'll see that our operating leverage was as you know negative for quarter one both on a linked quarter and year-over-year basis.
And as we put the plan together we as I said always seek positive operating leverage.
And our plan for 2015 is for the year to be slightly positive.
I will say however that hinged the original expectation that interest rates will start moving up at midyear and based on our stress test and the prevailing views of economists a couple of months ago if that doesn't happen in June then it is going to put some stress on our ability to be positively operating leverage.
I will tell you this though in almost any circumstance quarter one at 54.3% operating leverage will be our highest quarter or in this case our least attractive quarter of the four and I think you'll see that as the quarters age we'll get smarter and better at managing our expenses as revenue starts to move up.
But it's anything else I'll just close by saying I'm on a lag basis I've got to see revenue move up sustainably and consistently for long enough before we start to increase any expenses.
In the meantime we will delivery with the same people working as hard as they do to deliver a little bit more each time and will manage the quality of our FTEs at the highest level at this point where I think we're selling attractive employer and we can get some really good people from different places to accompany those who are here.
And so if there is a push out in the rate hike you counter that with employee? Yes I do and again being very clear that could put a pressure on our full year positive operating leverage it could make it slightly negative and slightly positive because we were counting on that.
But it is not enough of a difference and it doesnt change.
I dont think you always trust in the way we manage the company to cause me to want to start laying people off for doing something more draconian because it is not an if it is a win for different interest rates and when that happens I will be very glad we have the quality of people we have ready to jump on whatever opportunities come along.
Sure okay and then just separately you did have a change in the management of the Payments business recently.
We did.
I just want to understand if there is any change in direction of the organization that we can expect? So let me turn that over to the Chief Operating Officer.
Andy is going to give you an update there.
Good morning Betsy.
No there is no change in our strategy.
We have a good place in terms of market share and capabilities and our platform and merchants expansion outside of the U.S.
all those things are going well and we continue in that focus.
Our card issuing is doing also very well we're growing in regard to the activity our branch activity is also increasing.
And finally our corporate card is doing well.
So I dont see any change in direction.
Corporate card was impacted this quarter by a lower fuel price which impacts our fleet business and that was one of the big anchors this quarter in terms of our year-over-year growth.
The other phenomenon that we did see this quarter was corporate spend and payables is down which again probably reflects to what Richard spoke to which is just a general careful attitude in terms of large companies and payables for corporate spend was perhaps 1% up where in a normal period it would be up 5% to 6%.
I will just add too.
Pam Joseph is staying all the way through June 30 so she and Shailesh Kotwal will have almost four months of overlap which we are going to take every day of because Pams done a remarkable job.
Shailesh was attracted to us in a number of ways and not least to which is his international experience.
And well continue to follow as Pam started this march across the pond to increase the exposure we have in the European markets and eventually looking at other places in the world for our merchant acquiring.
But he is going to be a perfect transition and the two of them have already established I think a great report to carry on with second quarter.
And well make sure you all get a chance to meet him in future meetings because I think youll want to hear him directly and get a chance to understand his thoughts.
Appreciate that.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari of Evercore ISI.
Just want to ask a little bit more around loan growth just want to see if you can give us a little bit more color on trends in the first quarter particularly around Commercial Real Estate as I know it was particularly weak in the quarter and what may have impacted that.
And then secondarily how do you get back to that 1% to 1.5% range that you indicated for next quarter? Is it just the snapback in something that was abnormally weak this quarter? Thanks.
Thanks John.
I'll start and then Andy add some color.
First of all one of the way is out of the point into 1% to 1.5% is getting out of quarter one.
So thats how weve done already in April its part of that were seasonally affected company particularly such a heavy Midwest influence which include some of the weather.
So that helps a lot that's part of it.
Commercial real estate was actually pretty strong for us so Im not sure what numbers you are looking at but Ill give you the trend in commercial real estate is very consistent we call this mild but its East and the West Coast and Texas.
And thats where most of the activity for growth is coming for at least our customers.
The development activity per se is in the bigger cities West Coast Seattle San Francisco LA Orange County and you got Miami Boston New York.
So in the places you would expect and a couple of years ago on this call John I indicated that we had done a study of total on housing availability once and when people moved out of their parents basements and when the housing stock of foreclosures came back into the normal course.
And there were couple of markets that we actually stayed away from for a while I think that they might be over built.
We're not seeing that right now it seems that things are settling the cognizant floor to recover people have been more thoughtful about building in the right places.
So Im not that concerned about that I was a couple of years ago.
And then finally construction lending is highest for apartment office space and some lodging properties which continue to find their way into popup all across the country as people start traveling again.
So for me I think commercial real estate continue to be a strong point for us.
Our quality is remarkably high because we only deal with the very large national customers for the most part and were going to stick to that approach as it served us well.
And then Ill just close by saying our loan growth continues to be really strong in commercial and wholesale which youve seen before the 15.1% year-over-year growth.
Our commitments are even higher so that bodes well for one and when people start using those commitment.
That will start to have a nice increase and anytime that happens thats going to be too far because well start talking future quarters about loan growth being remarkably higher than anything in the last few years and part of all just be line usage.
So those of us who are collecting customers which lines that theyre not using are still doing a good job of developing a future core outstanding once and when people draw and then.
So Andy why dont you bring some color around [indiscernible].
So to your point commercial wholesale real estate was very strong commercial corporate up 15% real estate up 6% year-over-year.
The area that is not growing is rapidly is our real estate residential real estate which is relatively flat.
And whats going to drive that growth is going to be our home equity increases.
We do see increases in pipeline line of credit home equity line of credit and in residential real estate.
And I think as you go throughout the year well see an increase in that category which will help the overall loan growth numbers.
Okay I guess I was looking at the Commercial Real Estate GAAP line item on the consolidated balance sheet going from 42.8 to 42.4.
That was primarily what I was calling out in terms of it appeared to pull back a little bit.
That might be - John that might be as are you looking at the end of period versus the average growth? Yes.
Yes.
And I think that at any given day you might have a little bit of fluctuations in what pay downs and new loans coming on.
So we really focus on average loan growth.
Okay.
So let's get up for John John got the longest pause we've ever have.
We are never stopped our bank so John congratulations and its been something for that.
I figured I would let it sit just to see.
Its like forever transcript so read you may reply.
Right adds a little suspense to the call you know.
Okay and then lastly just back to energy.
I know it's a small piece of your book but just want to clarify something.
Did you quantify the size of the reserve or size of the provision that you took? And then what is the size of your energy reserve as of today as a percentage of loans? Yes.
We havent disclosed that.
I mean as I said I mean the total loan book is about $3.3 billion and about 60% of that is the E&amp;P portfolio which is the area most directly impacted.
Exploration and production.
Yes exploration and production.
So all re-rated its - the impact is in the numbers but no we have not disclosed the actual dollar amount.
It's not material John but certainly sufficient for the regulators.
Got it okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Siefers of Sandler O'Neill.
Just had a question on the margin and just sort of future directions there.
I think all the big pressure seems pretty much behind you with concession of the deposit advance product and then you are pretty much all set with liquidity build for LCR.
So at this point I imagine it's just normal spread compression maybe to the tune of 3 or 4 basis points a quarter.
Is that a fair way to think about margin erosion as we stay in this kind of sustained low rate environment? Yes Scott Ill take that.
Here is what I would say as we look out into quarter two I think you are absolutely right that well continue to see margin erosion related to the mix of our growth.
So we're more heavily weighted right now on wholesale versus retail so Id expect that to come down 2 to 3 basis points.
We also as we think about our investment portfolio while were done with the build we still have run off in that portfolio of about $2 billion a month which is now coming on at lower rate.
So the reinvestment aspect of that is also worth a couple basis points and then as we talked about earlier our deposits are really strong.
And while that is positive from a net interest income standpoint I do think that that potentially has the possibility of having a negative impact on our margin as we look out into the next quarter of a basis point or so.
Okay.
So maybe somewhere in mid sort of mid-single digits per quarter kind of compression range? That's about right.
Were seeing something a little new because we didnt expect as rates keep staying flat as long as they have we actually do out this reinvestment risk I mean stuff we put out anyone in the last seven years some of that much left in seven year tenures coming due and its coming in lower than it was before.
So when rates move about just so many things start to get better and things that we're about to be tough stop being tough and never mind when rates move up we have this wonderful benefit from some of the trust businesses that we have always been paying out to whats to our negative waivers.
So its just so many things well start to improve but I would say theres another basis point or two of added risk with rate staying a little longer on this reinvestment that we havent talked about in addition to the mix.
So Scott its but its exactly we telegraph before.
Yes okay.
All right.
That sounds good.
Thank you very much.
The next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
My question is probably top of mind for most investors in that it seems like some of the assumptions even from three months ago on rates for most banks on normalizing interest rates have been pushed out.
And we are sort of at the level of provision and charge-offs where even if you stay pristine you can have volatility in any one quarter.
I guess the question here Richard is: what is your view in terms of the timing of when normalized rates could converge relative to normalized credit knowing that it's the normalized credit that is likely under your control or that you have a better viewpoint on? Yeah again and I agree that will being you said.
Investors do want to know we all do and Ill say we use to prevailing view of the general economic forecast which I think we all agreed particularly a few months ago we're starting in June one of four interest rate increases June July September December and I think were now getting a telegraph to this could start later its more like September and less frequent may be two times instead of four.
What's most important is that starts off I can tell thats really more important than the the number of times that it occurs and I think that starting point as I referenced few minutes ago will be little bit of a tsunami effect of people spending and taking uses of credit and taking credit lines and walking down interest rates for so for me there will be a little bit of blip they feel number of cash per clients is may be the same store I think in the wholesale side.
I will say theyve also telegraphed the way it works for bankers that people were use their deposits first to invest in their life then they use the line of credit they have established whether they have anything else turning around it call it a house or call it a wholesale line of credit then theyll extend more credit so it does have to go through those steps like like Maslow's hierarchy.
So banks have to have deposits -- should see deposits flow and deposits go down and lot of you have been asking as about our stress testing and volatility of deposits out running out.
Second then lines of credit will go up and the new lines from loans will be formed.
So even when it starts Erika it will take a little bit of time but once it starts we can see a better predictability around it because we havent be able to show you guys what we used to do seven eight years ago when rates moved we havent pretty high correlation of behaviors would occur and what kind of margins impacts it would be.
So for me I think were going to say that as the economy gets stronger what kind of that interlude work stronger for everybody else but banks dont have particularly have this an important need in the minds of consumers and businesses as it starts to get very strong in rates move up because its stronger well start getting a lot of benefits on the income statement and the balance sheet will start to move from deposits over the loan and that will start to get a much more predictability which I think its a probably a year away.
But Im of the mind weve even out all stores I still think rates were move sometime in 15 and net effected sales were have a pretty stunning impact and then - steady rate put the what happens on the back side that will be positive under any circumstances and was just move from one side of the balance sheet to be other all giving us net inertest income which is what you all want.
And what about on the credit side? Given the underwriting standards have remained quite tight and the economy on both corporate and consumer remains healthy are we -- is it a longer path to normalized charge-offs even though the provisions could be volatile from here? Yes its a very long path like multi year path if you think about were 46 basis points and weve declared all of you from a bottom up basis that over the cycle we thought we would be had about 95 basis points so were now actually under half of that and over the cycle as you never actually had you just pass through at on your way to either the next recession the next recovery but I will tell you its many may years until we get to that number because it takes that long to get the loans on the books takes that long to have them stress unless there is a money  event.
And then it takes a long time for our results to be used in order to accommodate that so you will see interest rates move up probably three to five years before you will see the kind of credit quality that would be impacted by what would be some maintain either for underwriting decisions or aggressive underwriting decisions either when were not going to make but I think you will see the credit quality would be better than average for many years and will be the least thing what we talking about in the next couple.
Got it.
And just one last question.
You continue to do well in the CCAR process.
Are you confident that at least for the banks that are not considered SIFIs by the Fed that the CCAR process from here will be steady state? I'm sure there is going to be the transition to advance but less stringent or less change for non-SIFIs in the US? So do you mean do I think that the non-SIFIs will get relief from where they are or that they wont be brought under these structure? Not necessarily relief but more so less incremental negative change in the tests looking forward.
I mean we do believe that there will be a distinction I dont know where the lines going to be SIFI non-SIFI it doesn't matter to us because we are SIFI we think we are we finally not to be do SIFI but will be a SIFI.
And so according to that I think that will be plenty of the regional banks and smaller banks that will not be brought into that same kind of a routine which is where we planned for all the way and not something were going to see as a disadvantage.
On the other hand I do think we can play our advantages to not being a do SIFI as it relates to normally the oversight the additional capital requirements and some of the expectations that have been placed on them.
So we're going to call this sweet spot and based on our own preparation we have been working on the SIFI and the CCAR process it's well ensconced here there is no reason to not want to keep it up and frankly I feel better now I know the we passed all the SIFI test and if I would ever require another bank I would be more attractive to them if they gone to the same rigger because it improves half of my due diligence.
So I'm actually supporter of it and knowing that we are in it anyway we're going to make the best of it.
Got it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Hey everybody.
Good morning.
One big picture question just following up on that normalization effect.
Given that -- and the structural changes to the balance sheet given LCR and some of these intersecting points between that path to growth and rates do you still see a path that long-term 1.6-1.9 ROA is achievable? And is there anything that has happened over the last couple of years that would prevent the company from getting back to that point as you look further ahead? I'm quite bullish that is not a problem we will get there because the income will be so much higher.
The ROE well for ever be lower for all banks based on the requirements that have been placed in this new world for higher capital and that's the e part of the equation.
But the ROE is really a function just how much money we can make and the quality which we do and that is no one is really taken that from us as long as consumers and business needs banks and use us and I have ever reason things that 1.6 to 1.9 ranges quite still reasonable and I think for our ROE the 16 to 19 lower not there yet will also find its way through our normal standards and I think also think it will be at the high end of the peer group.
So were sticking with those numbers they are not evidential the day but I think at a year or more two you will see them again very quickly.
Okay got you.
And then on a short-term question just on mortgage banking can you talk a little bit about the drivers of the really strong gain on sale margins and whether they are sustainable? And then also if you have it just the mix purchase refi in both the volume and the apps? This is Kathy well I will go ahead and start with the - just the mix of the volume.
So as in quarter four we were kind of in that purchases versus refi kind of 70 percent purchase 30 percent refi.
We did as rate started coming down we did see a shift of that into the first quarter probably in that more closure to that 55 44 so we did see a little bit of a pick up and the refis we look out we still see volumes increasing we would expect to see seasonal impacts related to second quarter people should go out or probably will be out buying and we would think that we would start to see a little bit of shift back to purchase versus refi markets.
And I think if we think about the rates as you know kind of our margins have been up on a linked quarter basis about 10 basis points year-over-year about 28 basis points and I would think that has we look to quarter two we would expect to see that trend be slightly increasing margins.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald of Sanford Bernstein.
Hi good morning Richard.
Question on the CCAR.
You've been a leader in payout and cap returns for the last couple years.
That said the magnitude of your requested increase in dividends and buybacks this year was a little less than the Street was expecting and relative to peer increases.
Did you look at the results and kind of feel like wow I left some money on the table or we were conservative here particularly on the dividend payout? Maybe just some thoughts on what you were thinking as you went through the request and kind of how you felt when you looked afterwards? Yeah thats a really fair question.
I had no regrets after I read everybodys but I did studied hard as you would expect we would let me put this way and just in my just be philosophy but until interest rates start to move again and we have a higher sense of control over the final outcomes that we provide you guys.
It didnt seem reasonable to me and had nothing to do with the fact that we should increase our dividend above that 30% 31% level until which time we had more control.
So youll never hear on this call that were going to wave our ability to create outcomes because something else is changing our future like interest rates.
We has to manage to it but it does take away our ability to be certain that we have control over the bottom line and this whole discussion today about when interest rates move its torture for us but at the same time I havent stretch so hard that I have to worry that something doesnt go like we hope to - that the company is now over expending or that I miss my opportunity to work with the fact to exceed that 30%.
Another way to say it is Im prepared to as effect from more than 30% on dividends what I feel that we got to control over the profit we put together in October and like in the old days its highly deliverable in the next year solely based on our execution not on somebodys else decision on when the rights move.
So thats where you are seeing as a company that is conservative to control its own destiny and not wanted to send signals and tell that we can confirm it.
I would not have asked for more than 30% 31% and in terms of buy backs that will probably be the other place youll see us extending ourselves a little further because we do have control over that we can shut them up if we need to.
And so at the end of the day you probably will see our buybacks go up a little more than our dividend request double and I think as soon as we get that confident that we have the control of the entire company like we want youre going to see us to be a little more aggressive.
But for now Im satisfied with where we are and actually quite pleased with how this has moved out nice and slow and predictable repeatable.
I think our shareholders at least can count on a steady state return and thats what I promise them.
Okay thanks.
That's very clear and fair.
On that point about the controllable/non-controllable you mentioned that you've got the plan for a modest positive operating leverage but it could get tough if you don't get the midyear rate hike.
What is the debate that you have there? It sounds like you don't want to cut too much and cut into muscle.
Do you have some kind of break the glass program to use? This is going to be longer than we thought? Is there room on deposit funding costs or other expenses even though you are already pretty lean where you can pull and try to get this balance right? That is the dilemma right broken glass.
And so we've never invited a third party to come and tell us how to watch our expenses.
We have never created a special campaign and named it tell people that they are going to lose their job and stop with that.
We are not going to do that and I am not.
Maybe it is the effect of being in this for eight years but what I like to do is have gone through this whole recession and not have had to do that because I just cant describe to you the impact of execution when the employees trust the company and trust that they are going to be safe.
Its just its remarkable.
So I rather have 67 000 people here who feel really good about their job and the company that has their back through the tough times that has 69 500 we're at any time 2 500 wonder if they are going to lose their job and the other 67 000 wonder if they are the next.
So I cant explain that very well as a CEO its almost we will have somebody to try to write a book on it but thats really important to me and this team into this board.
If you told me interest rates are going to be flat for the next three years I believe that to be the case we do have the broken glass scenario.
It would be reduction in force.
It would be a very aggressive but thoughtful precise reduction in people and in expenses and things that honestly you would know would impair the near term and long term but you would have to do it to get to the other side.
Im hardly convinced after this eight years of recession that we're going to get interest rates to move again.
I do believe its worth hanging on.
So I will give you my Richard Davis dorky way of thinking about it.
Remember in high school the bar hang the bar hang was a test we have to take for the President's Fitness Award.
The bar hang was 90 seconds on the bar and if you remembered it all the last 10 seconds were a torture.
But they were equal to the exact same value as the first ten second which were nothing.
And I feel like we are here at the last 10 seconds and this company is going to hang on longer than anybody and it is torture but I want to do it for the right reasons because in two years and four years and six years you guys are all going to be asking how we are doing in a positive environment with a great economy and I want to harken back to times like this and say we gave up a 10 year to a near term profit in order to be able to say to you here in the future that we are amazing company doing as well in great times as we did in the tough time.
So that is the discussion around the table and I am holding up for your advice not to do any reduction in force so that we can have a great future while watching every penny which you know we have done for years that we do have expected extended this point in time.
Its tough.
All right well keep hanging and thank you.
Well thank you.
Good one.
I should have violins in the back too - Better than pull ups.
The next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo of CLSA.
Hi.
How much did the low tax rate help this quarter? Mike that helped us this quarter by about a penny.
Okay so I guess versus consensus you would have been a penny short or maybe there are some offsets to that.
But if you were a penny short then what are some of the risks that you are not taking that might have held back your earnings? Richard you just mentioned the bar hang and 67 000 people who will be more productive over the next 5 to 10 years because they don't have to worry about a strategy of the day.
But in addition to that what else are you doing that might hold back earnings now for the benefit of the future? To tell people people because Ive got all the other expenses quite well aligned our compliance cost are still at the high point but theyre not getting higher because we manage that and were moving through the momentary stages of some of these creation of the compliance groups the order functions and even the first-line defense in the lines of business.
There is no expenses that were not watching and havent and there is really no other activity but FTE paying people fairly and compensating them well.
So Mike thats and following Johns question they are perfect back to back it would be simply around sitting on the table and say we cut people and we simply dont want to do that.
So thats all were doing is asking them to work harder your decision is whether or not weve got enough of a good culture here that our people will work harder they will sustain it and they will do better than others and thats good enough and otherwise you can challenge the fact that I either should be taking a reduction of  or that should be adding a bunch of people and taking hits from you guys for having really negative operating leverage and Im not doing that either it is kind of right down the middle.
But were not withholding on anything else that would cause us to be unable to deliver on everything we said we would in tough and especially in good times.
I guess I am stuck on that last 10 seconds of the 90-second bar hang.
And sometimes especially as you get older I am finding this out it makes sense just to let go so --.
This is funny because last night I told my wife what I was going to say if this came up at some  talking to this stupid bar hang what you will think and she smiled and she turned around and she said and just a record tell them you actually hung on for two minutes.
So the fact is this company can hang on past the 90 seconds we can.
We are not all actually ready to roll.
But its tough always I was trying to say not that we are about to follow it just gets really tough and as long as you know that its the gut that carries you through the stuff and the best companies and our business are going to be the ones who have the will and the ability and the trust to get through it.
Im just convinced it again the book on the right but its that degree spirit of a company acting like a person that believes anything is possible and delivering it with the certain level of pride.
But Ive got nothing more to show you forward.
Last follow-up on this Richard Davis versus the 10 year bond? Yes.
I thought that.
I stop a minute its down 25 basis points since we last talked it has fallen below two but go ahead ask your question? Well no just the quarterly update.
Seems like you're feeling better about the economy but we are still waiting for it.
Is -- what -- how -- do you feel better than last quarter about the economy or are we just all still waiting here? Johns question is very beginning exactly I feel better about the economy I did 90 days ago I can see that its not better for banking in the near term.
It is that simple and when rates move up I am going to love the economy and Im going to love the Fed I am going to love our future.
But right now I think the economy is really that strong record stock market performance Europe is coming back we have got customers  cash all over the place they have got money in their pocket because fuel prices are down and they dont need bankers much as they are going to need us.
So we just want to keep them all it is happy customers and we will be there when they are ready but right now we are probably on the low end of their need to get through the day priorities and for that its not correlated a great strong economy and improving economy is not necessary good for banks until rates start to kick in.
All right.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Paul Miller of FBR.
Hey can you talk a little bit about -- because you've got some of the best I think mobile apps out there and how -- and everybody is seeing mobile banking really pick up especially with the new accounts.
How do you see the mobile banking online banking in your branch system work together? I will go first and have Andy jump in you know I were really good in mobile banking is because were great in mobile payments and I take into out much that matters and I actually wouldnt know if I had a bank that didnt have this large payments I would just I would know what I dont know.
We have a thing called the grove grove down in Atlanta where we have our payments group it is hundreds of people is that they are going to do nothing but work on merchants and consumer paradigms and modules on how to change the way they move money around.
And its a ton of customer who is up for lot of money we spend and by the way I havent taken that out all of our forecast but because we have merchants who work with us to create better mobile apps the net transfers backwards to mobile banking because mobile banking is just kind of a mini app to people moving money intrabank and between them and merchants and the merchants are really the smart ones that had a good stuff and sold and stuff moved about.
So that is one of the reasons were so good at it and because we have people in house that are focused on something even greater than that.
And Im kind of excited to showcase that particularly high at our next investor meeting little over a year from now.
So that is one of the reasons we do well it relates to the branch staying there or the benefactors of that and Andy you might carry on.
In addition to why Richard said I would mention that the other key aspect of this is making sure the branch is working together with the mobile payments and mobile banking side of the equation.
So theyre working as one so the seamless delivery of transactions and products and the ability to buy or sell looking at it from the perspective of a customer and if they start something on mobile want to finish it the branch or vice versa that were all in sync in terms of the process from a customers perspective.
And Paul I appreciate bring it up because most of you guys live on East Coast and bank on East Coast and you actually dont get to experience us so there is not a branch down the street that I can send you to or you dont just walk buy and see whatever our current collateral is but if you all want to come online and take a look at it its really really good stuff and it would be our pleasure to have you experience us through a more mobile approach than just perhaps the old brick and mortar.
Well I know we've seen when somebody comes up with a really cool mobile app it's copied very quickly.
But one of the things that you have that I have not seen anybody else have is the automatic bill pay app.
Is that just because you work with the merchants so close you are able to develop it? Do you think other people will be able to develop that same product? I think it gets back to what Richard talked about which is our R&amp;D and looking at different aspects of what we can do on a mobile app and what we can do in a branch and what people can do at home and then doing in ATM and trying to make everything as convenient as possible and as a cross channel as possible as we can.
Okay guys.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache of Nomura.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Richard I had a follow-up on your comments about rate increases and positive operating leverage.
To the extent that the frequency and magnitude of rate increases came in lower than what the market currently expects do you have a sense for how much of an increase you would need to see to achieve operating leverage? Maybe if you could just give us a sense of whether you have kind of run through the math and what that breakpoint is? Yes Im pretty transparent we expect it to increase starting in June June July September December 25 each if that doesnt happen you can back into our math and do a pretty quick calc and that flows down and moves pay to September and only one in December which is now the prevailing view that will put pressure on our positive operating leverage.
I have no idea what the next nine months of this year going to be they will be very very tough will be very close to flat or even slightly negative and that would be where I get back around the table like John and Mike talked and sit down the group and say does that enough of the reason for us to carry favor with the investment community to try to be positive from one year which you may or may not remember in order to do something draconian or do I take my lumpsum have you guys little disappointed but understand why we had a slight negative operating leverage to live to fight next year when things will be highly positive.
I will probably go to the latter but I will promise you - conversation and every time there is an adjustment we will see the impacts and decide whether or not its worthy of taking a near term or longer term view.
Understood.
That's very clear.
Thank you.
If we look at your loan growth -- on a separate topic -- on a year-over-year basis to take out seasonality the growth in residential mortgage in particular has been decelerating for about nine quarters and turned negative this quarter.
And I think we are kind of -- by looking at it year-over-year we would strip out seasonality.
So I'm not sure like some of the comments about weather and stuff would really play a role.
I was hoping maybe you could talk a little more specifically about your outlook there and address how you are thinking about that deceleration and what gives you confidence going forward in the resumption of growth in that area in particular.
Bill this is Andy the principal reason for that decline is our smart refinance product that is a branch originated high quality refinance product that has been shrinking because refinance volumes were coming down throughout the year as rates were not moving down as rapidly.
The pipeline for that right now is little stronger because of what we saw in the first quarter so I think you will start to see a little bit of an uptick certainly done a downtick in that category in the future quarter and then the other wildcard in the overall category is home equity loans as I mentioned in the retail category which were seeing strong growth and strong pipelines.
Excellent thanks very much and I appreciate it.
And your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush of NAB Research.
Good morning.
Sorry I came into the call late.
Another of your competitors' call ran way over but --.
No matter what you say I am going to say we already answered it.
No you are not going to get away with that.
All right I will try.
Yes one of your competitors just did a material purchase of CRE loans from GE Capital and it looks like GE Capital is going to be the gift that keeps on giving.
So I am wondering if you have any appetite for that or if you are looking in other places for portfolios of loans? Yes and yes.
More than I have in the past because if I cant deploy it in normal course then I have got deposits I honestly love and tell that but dont know what to do as the answer is yes to both.
GE is way too early to know until they get out some RFPs and take a look at what pieces particularly leasing would be of interest to us as we look at our big equipment financing business that we have here in the company and there are other portfolios that we would be interested in defending that could be credit card portfolios it could be high quality auto portfolios but its got to be something that we do already.
It has got to be underwritten qualities that we would do ourselves and if we do something of any size we are going to spend more time and due-diligence will be a nightmare for whoever it is because we want to due diligence likely underwrite it ourselves and if we cant get that level of comfort.
I will pass all day long because I really dont need to introduce anybody elses problems into our otherwise high credit quality but my appetite is definitely higher based on the lack of alternatives on how to deploy both the deposit growth we have and capital that we are starting out to build.
And given the portfolios that you may be seeing right now is the pricing attractive? We're still scratching our heads over that.
Thats a good question in fact as we put our student loan portfolio out for sale they are attractive to us because there is a market out to the people who want to pay a premium it seems for something that we have less value for.
So I do think that its going to be the expensive proposition if you dont get it the right way and if you dont due diligence and underwrite it properly for potential risk as we all think the world we have today is a good proxy for how loans will perform.
So I think I think its going to be rough tough to find something you like at the right value and thats why we wont overpay either and that is one of the reasons we are attracted at this moment to put our portfolios student loans out for sale because there seems to be a fairly robust level of interest and premium out there that will take.
So it may just come down the fact that will look but we wont like the pricing will step away anyway.
Yes and just a final note on that.
It looks like the deal that Wells Fargo did was something of a joint venture with Blackstone.
Are you seeing other private equity pools or whatever out there that you might want to do some kind of similar transaction with? I dont know their deal but no we dont like partners.
We are not great good partner.
We want to own it we want to control it and with third party particularly third party in every way now in banking has become an intensely added risk.
It is like more than a two.
So anything we do with the third party we have to operate it though we have full control we have to have information that allows us to have full control and then if you dont have full control even if you have all the information it is a whole lot less rewarding when something happens you are not absolutely able to predict.
So for us probably not.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Nancy and by the way we have not answered that question.
There are no further questions.
Perfect thanks operator.
Thanks for joining our call this morning.
And if you have any follow-up questions please contact me this afternoon.
Thank you.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the U.S.
Bancorp's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Kathy Rogers U.S.
Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today approximately noon Eastern Daylight Time through Wednesday July 22 at 12 AM midnight Eastern Daylight Time.
I will now turn the conference call over to Sean O'Connor Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Kalea and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Kathy Rogers Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorp's second quarter 2015 results and answer your questions.
Richard and Kathy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on page two of today's presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Sean.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining our call.
I will begin with our review with U.S.
Bank's results as a summary of the quarter's highlights are available on page three of the presentation.
U.S.
Bank reported net income of $1.5 billion for the second quarter of 2015 or a record $0.80 per diluted common share a 2.6% increase year-over-year.
Total average loans grew 4% year-over-year and 0.7% linked quarter excluding student loans which were reclassified to held for sale at the end of the first quarter.
In addition we continue to experience strong growth in total average deposits of 8.9% over the prior year and 2.6% linked quarter.
Net new DDA account growth was especially strong this quarter growing 4% annualized.
Credit quality remains strong.
Total net charge-offs decreased by 15.2% from the prior year and increased modestly from the previous quarter.
The increase from the previous quarter is a result of lower recoveries.
Total non-performing assets declined compared to both the prior year quarter and on a linked quarter basis.
We continue to generate significant capital this quarter.
Our common equity tier 1 capital ratio under the Basel III standardized approach as if fully implemented was 9.2% at June 30.
I'm also pleased that we were able to return 76% of our earnings to shareholders in the second quarter through a combination of our dividend and the repurchase of 14 million shares of common stock.
Slide four provides you with a five quarter history of our performance metrics.
And they continue to be among the best in the industry.
Return on average assets in the second quarter was 1.46%.
Our return on average common equity was 14.3%.
Moving over to the graph on the right you can see that this quarter's net interest margin was 3.03%.
Kathy will discuss the margin in more detail in a few minutes.
Our efficiency ratio for the second quarter was 53.2% lower than the prior quarter.
We expect this ratio to remain in the low-50%s going forward as we continue to manage expenses in relation to revenue trends driven by the economic environment while continuing to invest in and grow our business.
Turning to slide five the company reported total net revenue in the second quarter of $5 billion a 2.8% decline from the prior year.
Excluding the prior year notable item total net revenue increased 1.4%.
The increase was due to the higher net interest income as well as strong growth in trust and investment management fees merchant processing services and higher credit and debit card revenue partially offset by lower mortgage banking revenue.
I'm particularly pleased with the improving trends in our payments business especially our merchant and credit card businesses which Kathy will discuss in later detail.
Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on slide six.
Average total loans outstanding increased by over $9 billion or 4% year-over-year and 0.7% linked quarter excluding student loans which were reclassified to held-for-sale at the end of the first quarter.
Again this quarter the increase in average loans outstanding was led by strong growth in average total commercial loans which grew by 11% year-over-year and 2.1% over the prior quarter.
Total average revolving commercial and commercial real estate commitments continue to grow at a fast pace increasing year-over-year by 10.5% and 2% on a linked quarter basis.
Line utilization was relatively flat in the second quarter.
Residential mortgages declined 1.4% year-over-year and 0.6% on a linked quarter basis.
Average credit card loans increased 1.3% year-over-year and were seasonally lower on a linked quarter basis.
Total other retail loans grew 5.7% year-over-year and 1.7% over the prior quarter excluding student loans.
The increase was mainly driven by steady growth in auto loans and continued positive momentum in the home equity loans which grew 4.1% year-over-year.
We expect average linked quarter loan growth to be back in the 1% to 1.5% range in the third quarter.
Total average deposits increased $23 billion or 8.9% over the same quarter of last year and 2.6% over the previous quarter.
Growth in low-cost interest checking money market and savings deposits was particularly strong on a year-over-year basis.
Turning to slide seven and credit quality total net charge-offs declined 15.2% on a year-over-year basis and increased 6.1% from the previous quarter.
The linked quarter increase resulted from lower recoveries.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 48 basis points in the second quarter.
Non-performing assets decreased by 7% on a linked quarter basis and 18.8% from the second quarter of 2014.
During the second quarter we released $15 million of reserves equal to the prior quarter and $10 million less than the second quarter of 2014.
Given the mix and quality of our portfolio we currently expect the level of net charge-offs and total non-performing assets to remain relatively stable in the third quarter of 2015.
Kathy will now give you a few more details about our second quarter results.
Thanks Richard.
Slide eight gives you a view of our second quarter 2015 results versus comparable time periods.
Our diluted EPS of $0.80 was 2.6% higher than the second quarter of 2014 and 5.3% higher than the prior quarter.
The second quarter of 2014 included two previously disclosed notable items impacting other non-interest income and other non-interest expense that together had no impact on diluted EPS.
The $12 million or 0.8% decrease in net income year-over-year was principally due to a reduction in net interest income related to the previously discussed wind-down of our checking account advance product that ended in the second quarter 2014 lower mortgage banking revenue primarily due to an unfavorable change in the valuation of mortgage servicing rights net of hedging activities and an expected increase in non-interest expense excluding the prior year notable items.
Partially offsetting these variances was a decline in the provision for credit losses.
On a linked quarter basis net income was higher by $52 million or 3.6% mainly due to increases in fee-based revenue.
Turning to slide nine net interest income increased year-over-year by $26 million or 0.9%.
The increase was a result of growth in average earning assets of 9.1% partially offset by lower net interest margin including lower loan fees.
Approximately $40 million of the reduction in loan fees was due to the checking account advance product wind-down.
The net interest margin of 3.03% was 24 basis points lower than the second quarter of 2014.
The decline was primarily due to growth in the investment portfolio at lower average rates as well as lower reinvestment rates on investment securities lower loan fees due to the checking account advance product wind-down lower rates on new loans and a change in loan portfolio mix partially offset by lower funding costs.
Net interest income was higher linked quarter principally due to an additional day in the current quarter relative to the prior quarter with higher average earning assets offset by a lower net interest margin.
The net interest margin of 3.03% was 5 basis points lower than the first quarter.
The reduction in the net interest margin was principally due to continued change in loan portfolio mix the impact of higher cash balances as a result of continued deposit growth along with growth in lower rate investment securities and lower investment portfolio reinvestment rates.
We expect that the net interest margin will be relatively stable in the third quarter.
Slide 10 highlights non-interest income which declined $172 million or 7.0% year-over-year.
Excluding the second quarter 2014 notable item non-interest income increased year-over-year.
We saw strong growth in trust and investment management fees and merchant processing services as well as higher credit and debit card revenue.
As Richard mentioned we are pleased with the improving growth trends in our merchant and retail card businesses.
Merchant processing revenue while up 2.9% was negatively impacted by foreign currency rate changes.
Excluding this impact merchant processing fees grew approximately 7.6% on a year-over-year basis.
This growth compared to approximately 5% year-over-year in the first quarter.
Retail credit and debit card fees grew 2.7% on a year-over-year basis compared to 0.8% year-over-year in the first quarter.
Credit and debit card volumes grew 7% in the second quarter.
Retail credit and debit card fees continued to be negatively impacted on a year-over-year basis by the cost of rewards that were increasing in 2014.
As we previously mentioned we would expect this negative impact to dissipate in the second half of the year.
Partially offsetting these favorable variances was a $47 million decrease in mortgage banking revenue primarily due to an unfavorable change in the valuation of mortgage servicing rights net of hedging activities which more than offset higher origination and sales revenue earned from the 34% increase in application volume.
On a linked quarter basis non-interest income was higher by $118 million or 5.5% principally due to seasonally higher fee revenue and credit and debit card revenue merchant processing services and deposit service charges in addition to higher trust and investment management fees.
Moving to slide 11 non-interest expense decreased year-over-year by $71 million or 2.6%.
Excluding the second quarter 2014 notable item non-interest income increased 5.1% year-over-year.
The increase was mainly due to higher compensation expense reflecting the impact of merit increases acquisitions and higher staffing for risk and compliance activities and increased employee benefit expense mainly due to higher pension costs.
On a linked quarter basis non-interest income (sic) [non-interest expense] increased by $17 million or 0.6%.
The increase is primarily due to increases in professional services due to mortgage servicing and compliance related matters marketing and business development due to the timing of various marketing programs and compensation expense principally reflecting the impact of merit increases.
Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in employee benefits expense primarily resulting from the seasonally lower payroll taxes and a decrease in other expenses mostly due to insurance-related recoveries.
Prudent expense management remains a priority for our company.
For example our decision to hold FTE flat except for compliance needs in place since the beginning of 2014 remains in place today.
We also continue to manage other discretionary expenses where appropriate while continuing to make investments in businesses and products that will yield a high level of return.
This philosophy is and has been a strength in how we manage our company and this focus will continue going forward.
Turning to slide 12 our capital position remains strong.
Our common equity tier 1 capital ratio estimated using the Basel III standardized approach as if fully implemented at June 30 was 9.2%.
At 9.2% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement.
Our tangible book value per share rose to $16.79 at June 30 representing a 10% increase over the same quarter of last year and a 1.8% increase over the prior quarter.
Our return on tangible common equity was 20% for the second quarter.
Turning to slide 13.
In June the board of directors declared a 4.1% increase in our common stock dividend.
As a result in the second quarter we returned 76% of our earnings to shareholders.
Dividends accounted for 32% of the return to shareholders and the 14 million shares of stock we repurchased in the second quarter accounted for the remaining 44%.
I will now turn the call back to Richard.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Kathy.
I'm very proud of our second quarter results.
We delivered solid financial performance in a challenging operating environment for financial institutions.
We continued to achieve industry-leading performance measures.
Because of the overall strength and consistency of our results we returned 76% of our earnings to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks in the second quarter.
As we move to the second half of 2015 I'm confident we will continue to deliver solid financial results.
We'll continue to take the appropriate and effective actions including tighter expense management to ensure that we are meeting our value creation objectives for our customers and for our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Kathy Bill and I would now be happy to answer your questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Jon Arfstrom of RBC Capital Markets.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Jon.
Hey Jon.
Just a question on your last comment Richard you used the term tighter on expense management.
Does that mean you're a little less optimistic on the revenue outlook or is it just basically a similar approach? Has anything changed? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well yeah I'm actually more optimistic on the revenue for the second half because things have turned the corner and I think you'll see with NIM flattening out with loan growth now as I'm committing to well at the 1% or higher because I can see already see that for quarter three and the knowledge that our mortgages business is  the balance sheet is growing again I think we are feeling quite good about revenue.
What I'm still waiting for is the interest rate impact that would occur if the Fed increases rates.
So if they don't we're going to continue to put  keep in place this FTE hold we've had now for as Kathy said a year-and-a-half.
That's worth by the way thousands of FTE that we haven't added and therefore we haven't had to talk about reducing either.
And then all the discretionary things that we continue to do to keep ourselves at the efficiency level you come to expect.
So revenues actually got a nice trajectory in the second half.
Expenses will come down as we watch our nickels and dimes but I will tell you the cost of compliance has erased a lot of the benefits I would otherwise hope to have gotten a year-and-a-half ago when we started this as we've continued to add the compliance personnel audit personnel and not just in those areas but in the front line where we have that same compliance responsibility that's gone up substantially.
But expenses we'll continue to watch Jon like I promised.
And I've always said that if we have to be more draconian we will but the FTE hold and watching our vacancies and things has served us pretty well so far.
Okay.
Good.
And then I guess one of the items you singled out in growth was the corporate business and that seems to have been driving the growth.
Talk to us a little bit about what's going on there; is this large corporate driving it? Or is it broader based? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah it's way broader based.
So in fact much as I like the 2.1% linked quarter in C&amp;I that's one of our lowest quarters in the last six quarters and I'm actually kind of satisfied with that because we're now getting competing growth from the retail consumer side which is what we've been long waiting for and that's why one of our reasons we can say that the margin will start to flatten out because the mix will start to be balanced.
So commercial business the bond markets are driving balance reductions because people are driving to the bond market and so to still get 2.1% linked quarter means we're doing real business for real customers that have other needs that aren't just M&amp;A related.
We also see that more opportunity for us in the fee business given our involvement in that M&amp;A market on the capital market side which we didn't have as you know a few years ago.
So that's a kind of twofer for us; if we can't get it in loan growth we'll get it in fees.
Syndication loan market is really strong.
If you notice we were in the top four on the investment grade league table this quarter.
It's our first time we've broken into the top four so we're seeing that as a business for us that's starting to pay dividends that we invested in a few years ago.
So C&amp;I is strong.
Commercial real estate that's not as strong.
That's more flat for us; it was last quarter and it's going to be just slightly up in quarter three.
We're okay with that because I've told you before we see that as a market that can get overheated in the micro-market so we're very careful in particular in where we do business.
The coasts are doing the best based on the growth that's present and I think where some of the job growth say Atlanta Denver is driving new interest in office space and things like that.
Construction is primarily apartments and office not so much retail yet but we are seeing a lot of that construction on the smaller end being done by cash which is fine because we've been long saying that the first step towards a bank's balance sheet improvement is cash moving out of here to be used for growth then lines of credit being used for growth then new lines and loans being brought onto the balance sheet; and we're still in that first phase from what I can see.
And then finally Jon bringing a little more color on loans altogether the consumer side is doing quite nicely.
Our auto loans are up 10% over the first quarter and that's on a backdrop of a very strong auto market as you have seen now the projections continue to be very strong.
And then our home equity as I mentioned in my comments are also strong.
That's up 4.1%.
And interestingly enough these accounts are now coming at larger line sizes; people are using their home equity for home improvement and home repairs some debt consolidation but mostly improving the property.
And they're using the balances now more than they did even a year ago.
So we're starting to see some nick uptick.
And you know we don't have that home equity bubble at the bank here that a lot of companies do so we're not trying to offset that runoff.
And then maybe lastly because we brought it up last quarter we did see some improvement in our balance sheet on the mortgage side.
As you'll recall on the jumbo mortgages we agreed to become a little more market competitive on price.
And in the last month of the second quarter we saw the balance sheet starting to grow again and we hope that that will pursue itself into quarter three.
It has a lot to do with what rates do but our purchase to refi right now is 70/30 in the mortgage business.
And if we can continue to get back to where that mortgage balance sheet is growing at least slightly that helps our total loan growth get back into that 1% to 1.5% range.
Okay.
Good.
Then you're saying you already have some visibility for a bit better growth in Q3? Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We do.
And a lot of that is  or I wouldn't be so strong in predicating that for you.
Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Scott.
Good Morning guys.
Let's see Richard or Kathy I was hoping you could add a little to your response on the expense side in Jon's question there a second ago.
Richard are you suggesting that we're kind of at a high watermark for expense? I believe you said expenses would come down.
I guess I'm just curious without doing something more draconian where are they going to come down from? And just as we look out in the third quarter I guess you have between the  I think there was a vender reimbursement and then the insurance recovery about a cumulative $35 million or so of headwind so where does that come out of and what's sort of that near-term outlook on that cost side? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So I'm going to call it more flattish.
It's going to be close to what you see now if anything  it's not coming down so let's put it that way.
But I don't see any material increases either.
What's happening here is the cost of compliance is at its high watermark.
As you know we are a part of that mortgage foreclosure activity that we've extended and that's going to continue to cost us and we will continue to add compliance and audit in virtually every part of the company.
So that's in there.
Things that will come down to offset those headwinds are continued discretionary expense control that we just never talk about here.
I mean we don't have a name for it.
We don't bring people to tell us how to do it.
We've got a real heavy tight rein right now on discretionary expenses marketing travel things that are less necessary.
And from FTE being flat for a year and a half and still doing quite well to taking things like vacancies extending vacancies moving those up and being very prudent about how we manage the quality of our people.
So I may have mentioned last time that we're also getting a pretty thorough review of our low performing employees in the company.
Since FTE needs to be flat you have your right to use your FTE but you better have the best you can.
So I am encouraging people to improve the bottom performers and trade them out and get the best quality staff we can as this recovery is about to hit us.
So we can keep all that in general check.
With revenue moving up that's going to help our efficiency for sure.
But I don't want to leave with fact we're going to take expenses down but I think they're at a place that you can watch for and a slightly potential increase over the next couple of quarters only because of the cost of compliance if I can't out run it with vacancies.
Okay.
And that's perfect.
Thank you.
And then maybe if I could switch gears for just a second could you maybe expand upon the thoughts you had in your prepared remarks just in the payments businesses just trying to distinguish how much of the better performance this quarter was the typical seasonal boost versus what I kind of interpret it as sort of a more  kind of more constructive commentary about how those businesses are going just...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
You heard it right.
I'm going to give Kathy the detail but I want to say last quarter the payments businesses weren't that robust.
In part by the way it was the FX which is hard to describe.
It sounds like an excuse but in other companies it's a real impact and then it affects us in this one category.
But under a line we saw everything get much stronger and we really like the second half for payments as we get into the second quarter's look back now as it's improved from quarter one.
But Kathy bring some color to that.
Yeah.
I think as Richard said we were very pleased with what we saw in our momentum in the payments businesses.
If you think about our merchant processing I'll start there I think that's one of our better stories right now.
In the first quarter if you take out the impact of FX we grew about 5%.
As we look into second quarter that number grew to about 7.5%.
Same-store sales were kind of in that in the North American market in about that 5.5% range.
And I think that  so we are seeing some additional growth there that we think will continue as we look forward.
Our credit and debit card fees were also we saw momentum there.
We've been talking about the fact that rewards costs have been a headwind for us and that was absolutely true.
In the first quarter as you recall we had a year-over-year growth of 0.9%.
This year you will see that growth increasing.
So that headwind is diminishing and as we get into the later quarters I would expect to even see more improvement as that continues to diminish in the second half of the year.
So we are very pleased with the momentum there and would expect to see some good signs of this as we look out into future quarters.
Okay.
That's perfect.
Thank you guys for the color.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Scott.
Your next question is from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning John.
Hey John.
Good morning.
Just on the margin.
Wanted to see if you can give us a little bit of color on how you're thinking about the margin in coming quarters.
Just given the competition on the loan front could you still see similar mid-single digit compression over the next several quarters? Is that the best way to think about it? John I'm going to say I think we're starting to see the margin stabilize and I think that's coming from a couple of different reasons.
As Richard mentioned earlier we are starting to see a pickup in our loan growth on the retail side and that's going to help.
As you recall we've been calling out an impact of several basis points on a linked quarter basis related to the mix of our growth.
So as retail starts to pick up that's going to help us.
Additionally what we are seeing is that as loans and securities run off and we're replacing them with new that spread between what's running off and coming on is starting to get a little closer together so  or getting smaller.
So that's going to help us as well.
So I think as I look out into the third quarter I'm going to call that our net interest margin is going to be relatively stable.
Right.
I guess what I should  the way I should have asked it is how do you define relatively stable? Because I think you had alluded to some emerging stability in the past but we still saw mid-single digit compression.
So...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Actually  okay so John we actually never did say we're stable.
We were super transparent and always said it would be 3 basis points to 5 basis points or 3 basis points to 6 basis points and we did mention it by 1 basis point.
So stable to us is give or take 1 basis point maybe 2 basis points either direction.
But right now we're forecasting this thing to be flat and we could be surprised.
But we'll have a chance later in the quarter to update you guys.
We tell you exactly what we see as soon as we see it and we are extremely transparent and clear so stable means stable.
Okay.
Good.
Good.
All right.
And then separately in terms of the deposit side if you could just give us a little bit of color with what you are seeing there.
I mean it was exceptionally strong and surpassed our estimates particularly around some of the interest-bearing stuff? Yeah.
Hi John you're absolutely right.
It was higher than we saw in quarter two and I will tell you it's just continued growth across all business lines.
I can't call out any particular business that had higher growth than the other.
We had  we just continue to see strong growth in our wholesale our consumer and our trust businesses.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's a great problem right? And we're not sending deposits out.
We're also not rationalizing the number of branches we have.
We're just rationalizing what we do in them.
So that's probably keeping a lot of deposits the core stuff.
But we all know in a few quarters or years that's going to be the gas in the engine for making loans.
And so we're going to be pleased with loan growth deposit growth even if we're not sure what we can do with it yet.
And we'll continue to see that as a sign of more customers net DDA was as high as it has been in years.
We have a lot of new business coming in from our corporate trust which you know is a very important part of 15% of our core deposit.
So it's a good news thing and as much as we are a little surprised ourselves we're not going to do anything to send it back (28:12).
Okay.
Then Richard my last thing I just wanted to ask you about was about your updated thoughts on capital deployment particularly your view of M&amp;A opportunities here as you're looking at opportunities to put your capital to work? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Sure.
We've got this  we've indicated an interest in the GE Capital or part of their portfolio and we are in the due diligence with that.
So we will keep finding an interest in asset purchases.
We're continuing to find payment portfolios that we look at.
We like the merchant acquiring space where you've either seen us getting new partners in the domestic or more even often you've seen us do it in the international side where we can find a partner and extend into another country and kind of plug-and-play like we do with our payments platform.
And then corporate trust we just had our board meeting a couple weeks ago and we highlighted our European trust business which is also fund servicing and corporate trust and they are both quite robust.
The market continues to be very receiving of a new player in us being there and we see a lot of growth opportunities.
And that can be both organic and M&amp;A John.
So that's where you're going to see us.
Not whole bank transactions  what you've seen in the last few years is what you'll see in the next couple.
And I think that as the tail falls off of what I'll call the statute of limitations of inheriting somebody else's problems from the early years of the recession as that falls off in a couple of years we'll probably be back into the game of buying whole companies or looking at whole banks.
But for now that just doesn't suit our appetite.
All right.
Thanks for taking the questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks John.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller of FBR.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Paul.
Good morning guys.
This is actually Thomas on behalf of Paul.
Richard you talked a little bit about how you've been participating more in the jumbo market lately I guess in particular on pricing.
What's giving you the confidence to take that leap? And obviously that's helped your consumer growth.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let's have Andy respond to that he's got the mortgage business under his leadership.
Good morning Thomas.
You know it's about our customers.
So our customers are choosing to go longer in terms of their mortgage product given the low rate and the fixed rate and the 30-year.
So they're financing out of either what they have today or variable floating into longer jumbo.
We want to serve our customers' needs so we're putting those in our books.
They're not coming out as loss they're just coming out a little thinner spread than what would be historic but given our low cost of capital as well as our low funding costs they're still profitable for us.
Okay.
Great.
And then I guess one more question sort of on the loan growth loan growth seems like it's picking up for you guys.
Does that mean that more of the reinvestment of sort of the excess deposit growth which has been mentioned was very strong last quarter will go towards the loan side rather than securities? Or can we still expect some investment securities growth as well? Yeah.
I think at this point what you'll see is as loans start to increase that will really help offset the deposit increase so I think you'll see that.
There might be some modest investment security just based on the balance sheet positioning and so forth but it's really going to be used by deposits  or loans.
The deposit growth will be used by loans.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Thomas.
Your next question is from the line of Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Erika.
Hi Erika.
Good morning.
Richard we asked your peers yesterday what they thought about deposit repricing as we hopefully enter a higher interest rate environment.
One said that the deposit betas will be much higher because regulation has given us now classifications of good deposits and bad deposits while your other peers seem to be more optimistic on deposit beta given that we're coming from zero.
What's your view in terms of both the pace and magnitude of pass-through if we do see the Fed raise rates this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah my  I'll probably be right in the middle and that's not like me I like to take a position.
But I'll tell you my answer's just a little different.
We  God we all want this deposit beta to go up because we want that money to be used in some form of growth in the American economy.
I mean it really is at record high levels and it's not sustainable.
And it has nothing to do with the banks keeping them or losing them it has everything to do with consumers and businesses using it.
So my hope is that there is a early beta take when rates start to move up not because of rates being higher and the cost changing but because that informs the fact that people are now investing and consumers are consuming so I'm all for that.
I do think that marginal beta on companies has a lot to do with what kind of level of relationship they've created with their customers whereby if people are double banking triple banking the core relationship stays with the bank that's established themselves as the core partner.
And I also think customers that have established themselves as feeling that they were treated well during this period especially corporate customers and felt that the company protected their deposits here let them stay on the balance sheet if necessary or work them into some money center alternative I think we'll get credit for the way we handled that over the course of the more challenging times when deposits were less attractive.
So I'm going to say the beta is going to be  I hope it's an early a bit of an early and abrupt start because people are using it and then I think that the marginal beta starts to determine the quality of banking relationships you have.
And I have to remind you because of our corporate trust we will have at least 15% of our core deposits are in a different category as much as they're contractual and they don't have the ability to move at the vagaries of rates or even consumerism so I think we'll have a slightly better beta no matter what and probably better than you guys have modeled given that that's a pretty substantial amount of money as we continue to grow corporate trust.
That's a great point.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks for highlighting that.
And just Kathy as a follow up to Thomas' question does that mean that your earning asset growth is going to now match your loan growth? Over the past several quarters it's outpaced your loan growth.
And I guess a follow up question to that is could you give us a sense on where you are towards the LCR standard for January 2016? Well let me start with the LCR first.
And I will tell you that at the end of last year we had met that ratio.
So we were fully compliant with LCR at the end of 2014.
I will tell you one other aspect of our earning asset growth in addition to investment securities that's held for sale particularly around our mortgage environment so I think that as you think about total earning asset growth I think that it will more closely approximate loans going forward but you'll have to take into account the held for sale activity as  depending on what the mortgage market does.
Got it.
Thank you so much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Erika.
Your next question is from the line of Bill Carcache of Nomura.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Bill.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
I had a follow-up question on cards.
I've heard a lot of your comments on payments particularly a lot of items affecting the fee income line but I was hoping more  to focus a little bit more on the spread.
And it looks like you've been seeing a pretty consistent reduction in year-over-year credit card loan growth over the last several quarters to most recently 1.3% this past quarter.
That's a little bit slower relative to the rest of the industry.
I was hoping you could just talk a little bit about what  give a little color around what's driving that and what you anticipate going forward.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let's have Andy give you a brief color on that.
Sure Bill.
On a quarterly basis it's down principally due to seasonality so that is not uncommon from quarter one to quarter two to be down; on a year-over-year basis it's about 2%.
Part of the factor that is impacting that is auto sales and spend is up closer to 5% 5.5%.
People are paying down more of their balances with perhaps some of the excess they're getting from the fuel side of the equation so we're seeing pay it down rates being higher revolve rates being lower even though sales are up.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And so just looking at the average loans on slide 15 that shows the year-over-year growth so really we can tell from second quarter 2014 till now that growth rate has been downward.
So as we look forward from here would you expect that kind of similar trajectory or would that pick up a little bit? Well I think on a linked quarter basis we would start to think that we're  we do feel confident we'll be back into that 1% to 1.5% range.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then my last question is more on kind of broadly the upcoming interchange rate reductions in Europe in particular the capping of debit and credit interchange at 20 basis points and 30 basis points respectively.
Can you discuss whether Elavon offers pass-through or bundled pricing to its merchant partners in Europe? Just trying to kind of understand the extent to which you might be able to benefit from the upcoming interchange rate reductions in Europe.
I think for the most part that interchange impact will not impact Elavon in Europe so it will  our rate of revenue will not be impacted by that change.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Bill.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Ken.
Hi Ken.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi guys.
First question just on credit it looks like you had a little lower recovery this quarter which I would think would be expected at this point most of the underlying metrics continue to look excellent in terms of delinquencies NPAs et cetera.
How much room is there do you think just for charge-offs to still decline from here? I know reserve release is pretty much done but it just looks like the underlying credit still looks quite good.
Yeah.
This is Bill.
I think the one area is still in the residential space so there is still continued improvement there.
It's already getting low so the dollars aren't going to be huge at this point.
But as you pointed out the rest of the movement comes through recoveries generally on the wholesale side.
Those are sporadic sometimes they're very strong in one quarter.
This quarter they were a little lighter.
Further away we get from the downturn the fewer of those higher recovery levels we'll have.
So I'd say in general we're at a good spot and I see a little more improvement on residential mortgage.
Okay.
Great.
Got it.
Thanks Bill.
And then secondly just on  a question on the mortgage business obviously we had a pretty good second quarter and you had a big pump in originations.
Just maybe just your general thoughts on the state of your  the housing market the mortgage business and the outlook for production there? Yes.
So as you stated we had a really good quarter from a year-over-year basis.
We grew our app volume about 35%.
As we look forward into quarter three I do think that we'll probably see a decline in our refi balances.
So I would expect as we look into quarter three on a linked quarter basis our application volumes will be probably down a little bit.
I would say from a fee standpoint we may be  our fee income might be modestly lower than what it is this quarter but it's very early in the quarter.
It's going to depend a lot on what we see in the rate  with the rate market and the appetite for purchases.
So we'll give you a little bit of  more heads up on that as we go further into the quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Ken.
This is Richard.
The applications up 34% in quarter two will show through in quarter three as bookings in some measure so quarter three has a lot to do with paying off quarter two.
Quarter three I think will be a tale of interesting to watch because we will see what happens as rates start to move or the threat of rates start to move and more on the psychology of the consumer behavior.
But I thought you'd find this interesting.
I was a couple of weeks ago in California with our homebuilder business.
They were there for our national conference and we had a large gathering.
And I asked them what interest rate level in terms of a mortgage rate would cause them to worry about the impact of future homebuilding? And they all were comfortable that 200 basis points doesn't move anybody's needle on either the affordability or the belief that they could still get into a home that they want.
And that's a pretty nice range of safety for a while because I don't think any of us think rates whenever they do move up are going to move 200 basis points real quick.
So that provides me a little confidence that the purchase market by those who actually build and live off of it is feeling pretty strong and they're not typically worried at this stage of rates moving up if they don't move more than 200 basis points.
Refi is just typically what you see in the vagaries of whether people still haven't refi'd yet or whether they have a reason to take advantage of a rate they didn't heretofore.
So we will learn more.
I think this quarter three will tell a big story and probably a month from now we'll have a really good sense of what the mortgage business looks like but it's a little early now.
Understood.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Mutascio of KBW.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Chris.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Hey Richard.
How are you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Kathy how are you this morning? Good.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Richard I just want to  just all of my questions I think have been answered but I do want to just make sure I do a double-check on your thought process on expenses in third quarter.
When you talk about flat I know we've talked about a lot of this beating a dead horse earlier on the call but the reported expenses of roughly $2.68 billion it seems to me there is a couple things that you benefited from in the quarter whether it was insurance recovery or reimbursement from a business partnership.
When you say flat is it flat are you thinking flattish with the reported number of $2.68 billion or should I gross that up for some of the benefits you had in the quarter? And if it is flat are you thinking it is flat with the reported number where do you get the offsets from? Is it lower marketing expenses? Is it lower professional services fees that could get you back to that level? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Chris.
I'm really glad for the question because I didn't know it wasn't clear so thank you.
It's not taking advantage of the one-time benefits.
It's the core.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And so the things that we manage we're going to stick pretty flat to that but you won't get the benefits each quarter unless something comes out of nowhere that we're happy with.
So on a reported basis it will go up slightly.
As it does though it will go up less than it would have if we weren't continuing to put this kibosh on the cost of FTE and the cost of discretionary expenses like marketing and travel and entertainment.
So yeah it's a good question.
It will go up in the second half but it's not material and as much as we're not counting on the other benefits to accrue and if they do we'll take them and celebrate that.
The other thing that I'd mention Richard is the normal seasonality to our tax amortization  our tax credit business which again is reflected in our tax rate all year but goes up through the year just normal seasonality and that's probably $30 million to $40 million (43:04).
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> (43:05) the second half.
So as Andy is talking about the CDC and so we have expenses up above the line but we get all the benefits on the taxes below.
And if you look at one line item that's a great reminder that that will be  you should isolate that and take a look at it.
In prior years it will be just the same as it's been in prior.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Right.
So absent the tax issue which I fully understand it's more of a  it should gross up at least to some degree second quarter expenses from a run rate perspective because of some of the benefits you had? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's correct.
That's right.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Exactly right.
(43:33) Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thank you so much Richard.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Perfect.
Thanks Chris.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Barker of Compass Point.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Kevin.
Hey Kevin.
Hey.
Good morning.
I just wanted to follow up on some of the mortgage comments.
Are you seeing an increasing amount of demand from consumers or at least incrementally regarding cash out refis or potentially a willingness to increase home equity lines in order to take advantage of higher equity and higher home prices? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Definitely the latter right? So as I said home equity is up 4% and it's  people are doing mostly home improvement.
When I was a young banker in California 30 years ago we used to call it a PIP a property improvement and we used to give credit back  half the credit to the equity or the line itself because we thought they're improving the collateral as they went.
We don't do that anymore but that was the old days when people really used their house to live in it and to keep it for a longer-term and not improve it to flip it.
And I think we've got psychology where people are going to live in their houses now and own them as an asset to live in with the hope that they will have some increasing value use it when they can but not to do it in order to flip it.
Debt consolidation for the first time Kevin is starting to show up again in home equity which I guess it makes sense later in the cycle as people want to reset one more time but they are much more prudent than they were before.
And because the quality of loans we do we don't do debt consolidation home equity for people who are desperate.
They're simply being more efficient in the way they handle their cash flow.
Andy might talk to...
Yeah.
And somewhat consistent with what we are seeing in housing prices.
The average line that we booked in the second quarter was up 7% versus a year ago and the average balance of our home equity account is up over 10%.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So they are using it.
In terms of cash out purchase not seeing any evidence of that that's materially different than prior quarters.
Those with cash are putting it into the house those without it are still taking the opportunity to refi most of it and some of it with government programs.
You see that as a source of growth for you in particular or the industry in general? Or do you feel like it's going to be something that's going to be lackluster for the next couple of years still? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't know about the industry.
I mean were  I know this is an outlier for a lot of us.
Two reasons.
One is because we've been working first position second mortgages for a long long time.
It's been a product we've had for some reason hasn't been matched by most folks.
And then I think I mentioned in my comments we also don't have that bubble that we're trying to out-run.
If you look at our balance sheet we don't have a history of being a huge home equity lender at a disparate level.
So we don't have a lot to have to refi or rebook.
So in this case we're going to get the benefit of net growth from our activities and our product.
So I think we'll be an outlier in a positive way.
I mean our origination volume on home equity which is primarily all out of our branches has grown substantially over the last few quarters.
I mean we look back a few years ago we barely do $1 billion and this past year we did  or this past quarter we did $2 billion.
So...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It's really...
It has been a nice steady growth for us and the performance has always been good.
So...
Yes.
You've definitely been an outlier.
Thanks for taking my questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks Kevin.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo of CLSA.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Mike.
Hey.
How are you doing? I got on the call a little late.
Hopefully this wasn't asked I got the tail end of it.
So your 22% annualized fee growth for the quarter what is a more normal rate as we look ahead? I mean strong fee quarter obviously but 22% annualized there is some items there where would you guide us? Yeah.
Well first of all...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well first of all the question was already asked and it was a fantastic answer and I'm sorry you missed it.
But we'll be happy to repeat it for you Mike.
Actually it wasn't asked so we're happy to answer it.
Here's what I'd say Mike.
You have to remember recall for us the second quarter is seasonally high because of our payment business and just some deposit service charges.
So I wouldn't think to annualize that quarter.
I would look more at it on a year-over-year basis and I would say that we did see  we saw momentum in our payments businesses.
I think that's going to continue.
We had strong growth in our trust and investment management fees and I think that we would expect that to continue as well.
So I would look at it a little bit more on a year-over-year basis and assume that we'll continue to add some momentum there.
And as far as acquisitions where do you guys stand? The sale from GE or maybe bank acquisitions.
Has your appetite changed? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It hasn't changed and I did answer that one earlier.
GE we are in due diligence for one part of their portfolio  who knows? We don't have to have anything here to make it to tomorrow so we'll just be prudent and take a look at it.
We like  as I said earlier we like acquisitions of payment companies we like trust companies we like overseas a lot because it seems to be an interesting market worth looking further out.
Not interested in full bank transactions at this stage and what you have seen in the last few years is what you will see for the next couple.
And then lastly my question Richard Davis versus the 10-year.
Maybe Richard you're winning the recent round.
I'm not sure.
But what's the check on you're feeling about the growth of the U.S.
economy? Are we stepping out or is it kind of same as it's been? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think it's same as it has been which is still slow but steady progress right? So it's not going backwards.
There's no inertia to jump it forward.
My long philosophy is the minute it's known that rates are moving up whether they have to move or not it starts to create a catalyst for people to take the action that they have heretofore been holding off on.
And my hope is frankly that the consumer blinks first and starts consuming as they should and that incentivizes businesses to start investing and growing and that kind of cycle starts up again.
So I'm still optimistic that we're making progress and everything's going in the right direction and I think I'm hopeful that the Fed sees it the same way and if they do then rates start to move up.
We benefit from the balance sheet being only half of our company's balance sheet so we'll benefit just as much from the fee businesses as it relates to a stronger economy so I'm optimistic.
Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Mike.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivek Juneja of JPMorgan.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Vivek.
Hi Vivek.
Hi.
Thanks.
A couple of questions.
You had very strong growth in auto loans just wanted to understand if you could give me how much of that is prime versus non-prime? It is all prime Vivek.
We started a little initiative about a year-and-a-half ago to pursue the subprime but the volume and the opportunity there was not sufficient so we're no  we're completely a prime shop.
Okay.
So if that's the case how is the yield on that retail loans staying flat quarter-over-quarter Andy because prime is seeing a lot more competition from what we're hearing from everybody? Yeah.
Leasing is strong lending is more pressured; and the net of the two is flattish.
And does the leasing also show up in retail leasing? Or does that show up in the auto lending line? Shows up in the leasing line.
Okay.
Because that seems to have been down year-over-year and linked quarter.
Yeah.
And I'm just talking about on an absolute basis if we think about spreads and profitability when we book that next lease that's still quite profitable.
The next loan prime auto loans is probably one of the most competitive dynamic  loan categories on the balance sheet today.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because I can see the auto was up 5% linked quarter that's a very strong number.
Secondly you'd  Kathy mentioned about trust and wealth management being up sharply.
As I look at it it's up $23 million year-over-year.
Over half of that growth is in corporate trust fees.
How much of that has come from that cleanup call stuff that The Wall Street Journal highlighted a few weeks ago? The cleanup call is immaterial Vivek.
And it's actually in a different...
It's out of...
...in a different line.
So it's not even that number at all.
That is because our corporate trust business is doing well we continue to be number one market share across all three categories: muni corporate and structured; doing well both domestically as well as our small footprint in Europe which is growing.
So that is just strong business growth and taking share.
Okay.
Got it.
Okay.
Glad to hear that that's immaterial.
I just sort of wondered why bother to do it then? Well it's part of the structured business and the way we  and the way the documents are compiled.
So it's a normal process.
Many banks do it.
It's not unusual and it's  we've been doing it because it is part of the document.
Okay.
All right.
And lastly you're obviously expanding on the investment banking side.
I noticed that you even did a preferred stock deal where you were a co-lead underwriter.
What point are you going to start breaking out IBCs from commercial products? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We  it hasn't been material enough so we haven't but given your question we'll look into that.
I mean if that's valuable to you all given that we're continuing to make progress and our momentum has been really good here we'll make that a to-do for ourselves.
Yeah we will.
Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Thanks Vivek.
Thanks.
All right.
Your next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko of SIG.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Jack.
Hey.
Good morning.
Richard in your prepared comments you mentioned higher mortgage servicing regulatory expenses it sounded incremental.
Is that the correct interpretation I guess? And then second would these expenses be I guess sort of one time to sort of ratchet up to a new standard? Or given your 70/30 purchase focus is this sort of  could it be the new norm around servicing? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Good question.
So it's not incremental it's just longer than I wanted.
So in my mind I wanted this thing to be done and gone and the consent order continues.
So kind of the rush to the end right to the finish line.
So we're going to continue to spend probably between now and the end of the year at the levels you've seen.
There's no relief on that at all.
As it relates to the cost of servicing though it's an important decision each bank has to make.
The cost of servicing is remarkably higher now than it ever was.
And to take you back a couple of quarters I think I reminded you all that that's one of the things it does is it inspires you to stay at a higher quality of customer.
So if I have a customer at a FICO level that there's a risk that we may have some form of a modification before their mortgage is through its life I'm probably not going to do it anymore because the cost of handling that customer in the modification period and phase is expensive and it's rife with compliance risk and mistakes.
So I'm just going to go a little higher than that and make sure that all customers we bank at least going in are not likely to have any concerns so the servicing cost to the bank are standard operating servicing as customers pay as agreed.
When you start getting into that lesser quality customer the cost of servicing goes way up and we've been feeling that because we've been dealing with all these issues we've had to go back and remedy but we're not going to do it going forward.
So it's at least the rest of this year Jack we're going to have those costs and then my hope is that they'll start seeing some relief into the future years as mortgage servicing.
We are sticking with it.
We love the business.
We're going to stay in the top five as a mortgage originator and a mortgage servicer but for now those costs are just longer than I had hoped and they're at least the rest of this year.
Okay.
Great.
And then as a follow-up the student loan the move the re-class does that get you out of student loans or is there more potentially to come as sort of a headwind to the top line growth numbers as you de-emphasize that business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No it's all out.
So we haven't sold it it's still out looking  we're looking at the bids and things so it's still held for sale because we don't have an answer but with our intent is to get entirely out of both the government and the private student loan category and take that off of our things to worry about.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
There are no further audio questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Great.
Thank you operator.
Thank you for listening to our second quarter results.
And please call me this afternoon if you have any follow-up questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks everybody.
Thanks guys.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the U.S.
Bancorps Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Following a review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Kathy Rogers U.S.
Bancorps Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon Eastern Daylight Time through Wednesday October 22nd at 12 midnight Eastern Daylight Time.
I will now turn the conference call over to Sean OConnor Director of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Melisa and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Kathy Rogers Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review U.S.
Bancorps third quarter 2015 results and answer your questions.
Richard and Kathy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our website at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during todays call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on page two of todays presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Sean and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining our call.
I will begin our review of U.S.
Banks results with a summary of the quarters highlights on page three of the presentation.
U.S.
Bancorp reported net income of $1.5 billion for the third quarter of 2015 a record $0.81 per diluted common share a 3.8% increase year-over-year.
I was particularly pleased this quarter by the continued momentum in our payments business specifically our retail card and merchant processing services the stabilization of our net interest margin and a returnable linked quarter loan growth to our typical range of 1% to 1.5%.
During the quarter we returned our student loan portfolio from held-for-sale to held-for-investment.
Subsequent to recognizing a market adjustment on the portfolio related to disruption in student loan market.
Excluding these student loan balances total average loans grew 1.3% on a linked quarter basis.
In addition we continued to experience strong growth in total average deposits which included consumer net new account growth of 3.1%.
Credit quality continues to remain strong.
Total net charge-offs and total non-performing assets both declined on a year-over-year basis and on a linked quarter basis.
And finally our capital position remains solid.
We continue to generate significant capital this quarter and were able to return 80% of our earnings to shareholders in the third quarter through a combination of our dividend and repurchase of 16 million shares of common stock.
Slide four provides you with a five-quarter history of our performance metrics and they remain among the best in the industry.
Return on average assets in the third quarter was 1.44% and return on average common equity was 14.1%.
Moving over to the graph on the right you can see that this quarters net interest margin of 3.04% was essentially flat with the previous quarter margin of 3.03% as expected.
This reversed a declining trend in linked quarter margin that has occurred over the past several quarters and which is principally driven by a shift in the mix of our loan portfolio.
Our efficiency ratio for the third quarter was 53.9%.
We expect this ratio to remain in the low 50s going forward as we continue to manage expenses in a challenging economic environment.
During the third quarter we expanded our prudent FTE management focus and introduced a renewed emphasis on other discretionary spending.
We anticipate our efforts related to these initiatives will begin to reflect positive momentum as we move through quarter four and into 2016.
While we anticipate our non-interest expense will be higher on a year-over-year basis in quarter four we expect the increase will be lower than the year-over-year increase reported in the last several quarters as a result of our actions were taking to reduce discretionary spending using technology to reduce certain traditional expenses and focusing our spending on more productive activities.
This is being accomplished through FTE actions as well as programs that will reduce travel cost by effectively using video and teleconferencing increasing our use of airfare and hotel discounts and eliminating most discretionary travel.
Were also expanding the use of electronic communications internally and with our customers to reduce spending in printing and postage.
Additionally we began to evaluate professional service and contract labor arrangement and we expect to see improved efficiencies as resources are more appropriately allocated.
Well continue to leverage this efficiency effort to drive further opportunities for more prudent and efficient spending as we move through 2016.
While prudent expense management remains a priority for our Company we also continue to focus on revenue growth which includes investing in businesses and products that will yield a high level of return.
This philosophy is and has been a strength on how we manage our Company and this focus will continue going forward.
Moving onto slide five I want to highlight some notable impacts to our earnings.
The third quarter of 2015 included several previously disclosed unrelated items that combine relatively neutral to earnings.
Specifically the Company recognized a gain from the sale of Visa Class B common stock of approximately $135 million.
This was partially offset by a $58 million market valuation adjustment to write down the value of our student loan portfolio that was previously held for sale.
The quarter also included approximately $60 million of elevated expenses due to the mortgage related compliance and the company-wide talent upgrade.
Turning to slide six the Company reported total net revenue in the third quarter of $5.1 billion a 1.6% increase from the prior year excluding the impact of this quarters recent sale and the student loan market adjustments.
The revenue momentum we are seeing is primarily due to our growing balance sheet and growth in a number of our fee related businesses including payments.
Kathy will now give a few more details about our third quarter results.
Thanks Richard.
Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on slide seven.
Average total loans outstanding increased by over $9 billion or 3.8% year-over-year and 1.3% linked quarter excluding student loan.
Again this quarter the increase in average loans outstanding on a year-over-year basis was led by strong growth in average total commercial loans of 9.5%.
Total average revolving commercial and commercial real estate commitment continued to grow at a fast pace increasing year-over-year by 8.9%; line utilization remained similar to the previous quarter.
On a linked quarter basis consumer loans have begun to grow at a pace stronger than wholesale loans driven by growth in our residential mortgage portfolio and continued strength in our home equity and auto lending businesses.
This mix of loan growth is a key factor in the stabilization of our net interest margin.
Residential mortgages were relatively flat year-over-year and increased 1.4% on a linked quarter basis reversing a declining trend recognized over the previous quarter.
Averaged credit card loans increased 1.1% year-over-year and were up 1.9% on a linked quarter basis.
Total other retail loans grew 5.6% year-over-year and 1.9% over the prior quarter excluding the student loans.
The increase was mainly driven by steady growth in auto loans and continued positive momentum in home equity loans which grew 0.8% linked quarter.
We would expect loan growth to continue in a 1% to 1.5% range in quarter four.
Total average deposits increased almost $19 billion to 6.9% over the same quarter of last year and 1.4% over the previous quarter.
Growth to non-interest bearing and low-cost interest checking money market and saving deposits was particularly strong on a year-over-year basis offsetting the run-off of maturing large dollar time deposit.
Turning to slide eight and credit quality total net charge-offs declined 1.4% on a linked quarter basis and 13.1% on a year-over-year basis.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 46 basis points in the third quarter.
Non-performing assets decreased by 0.6% on a linked quarter basis and 18.5% from the third quarter of 2014.
During the third quarter we released $10 million of reserves compared to $25 million in the third quarter of 2014 and $15 million in the second quarter of 2015.
Given the mix and quality of our portfolio we currently expect total non-performing assets to remain relatively stable in the fourth quarter of 2015 and the level of net charge-offs to increase modestly in the fourth quarter of 2015 principally due to the expectation of a lower level of recoveries.
Slide nine gives a view of our third quarter 2015 results versus comparable time period.
As mentioned our diluted EPS of $0.81 was 3.8% higher than the third quarter of 2014 and 1.3% higher than the prior quarter.
The $18 million or 1.2% increase in net income year-over-year was principally due to higher net interest income and non-interest income offset by higher non-interest expense.
On a linked quarter basis net income was higher by $6 million or 0.4% mainly due to increases in net interest income and non-interest income partially offset by higher non-interest expense.
Turning to slide 10 net interest income increased year-over-year by $73 million or 2.7%.
The increase was a result of growth in average earning assets of 6.6% partially offset by a lower net interest margin.
The net interest margin of 3.04% was 12 basis points lower than the third quarter of 2014.
The decline was principally due to a change in loan portfolio mix as well as growth in the investment portfolio at lower average rate and lower reinvestment rates on investment securities.
Net interest income increased $51 million on a linked quarter basis primarily due to higher average total loans and an additional day in the quarter.
The net interest margin of 3.04% was 1 basis-point higher than the second quarter.
The increase in net interest margin was principally due to growth in earning assets including a shift in loan mix weighted more to consumer loans and continued deposit growth partially offset by an increase in lower rate investment securities along with lower reinvestment portfolio rates.
We currently expect that the net interest margin will be relatively stable in the fourth quarter.
Slide 11 highlights non-interest income which increased $84 million or 3.7% year-over-year.
The year-over-year increase in non-interest income was primarily due to the third quarter 2015 Visa gain of approximately $135 million partially offset by the $58 million student loan market value adjustment.
The remaining increase in non-interest income was principally due to higher commercial products revenue trust and investment management fees credit and debit card revenues and merchant processing services.
Partially offsetting these favorable variances was $36 million decrease in mortgage banking revenue primarily due to an unfavorable change in evaluation of mortgage servicing rights net of hedging activity.
Momentum in our payments business was reflected in our third quarter results.
Credit and debit card fees grew 7.2% on a year-over-year basis principally driven by higher volume compared to 2.7% growth year-over-year in the second quarter.
We would expect that credit card fees in quarter four will continue to grow in line with volume.
Merchant processing revenue increased 3.4% year-over-year 8.5% excluding the impact of foreign currency rate changes.
This increase compares to year-over-year growth of 7.6% in quarter two.
The growth was driven by higher transaction volume account growth and equipment sales to merchants related to new chip card technology requirement.
We would expect that quarter four year-over-year growth in merchant fees will be modestly lower than the growth recognized in quarter three as equipment sales related to the new chip card technology requirements will begin to slow.
On a linked quarter basis non-interest income was higher by $54 million or 2.4% principally due to higher other income in commercial product revenue as well as seasonally higher corporate payment products revenue and deposit service charges partially offset by lower mortgage banking revenue.
We currently expect mortgage fees to be down 5% to 15% on a linked quarter basis in quarter four due to typical seasonality.
It is very early in the quarter and well update guidance as the quarter progresses.
The other income increase was due to higher equity gains including the Visa gain offset by student loan market adjustment and lower trading gain.
Moving to slide 12 non-interest expense increased year-over-year by $161 million or 6.2%.
The increase was mainly due to higher compensation expense reflecting the impact of merit increases and higher staffing for risk and compliance activity higher employee benefits expense mainly due to higher pension costs and higher marketing and business development expense.
On a linked quarter basis non-interest expense increased by $93 million or 3.5%.
As expected linked quarter expense increased due to the seasonal lift in tax credit amortization included in other expense and an increase in expense related to the quarter two partner reimbursements that did not repeat in quarter three which are principally reflected in printing and supplies expense.
The remaining increase was primarily due to increases in other expense related to mortgage servicing and talent upgrade costs and compensation expense principally reflecting the impact of an additional day in the quarter and increases in variable compensation.
As we look to quarter four we do expect an increase in linked non-interest expense as seasonally higher tax credit amortization will be partially offset by a reduction in expense related to the elevated mortgage servicing and talent upgrade costs that were included in quarter three expense.
The normal seasonal increase in tax credit amortization expense is expected to be in a range of $65 million to $75 million slightly higher than trends observed in the same period of last year.
Turning to slide 13 as Richard mentioned our capital position remains strong.
We returned 80% of our earnings to shareholders; dividends accounted for 32% while stock repurchases accounted for the remaining 48%.
Our common equity tier 1 capital ratio estimated using the Basel III standardized approach as is fully implemented at September 30th was 9.2%.
At 9.2% we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement.
Our intangible book value per share rose to $17.20 at September 30th representing the 9.8% increase over the same quarter of last year and a 2.4% increase over the prior quarter.
Ill now turn the call back to Richard.
Thank you Kathy.
Im very proud of our third quarter results.
We reported a record EPS maintained our industry leading performance measures and reported a 19% return on tangible common equity in the quarter.
Were operating from a position of strength as we grow revenue as we manage expenses as we seek to exceed customer expectations and as we create value for our shareholders in the demanding marketplace.
As we head into the final quarter of the year we remain focused on delivering consistent predictable and repeatable financial results for the benefit of our customers our employees our communities and our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Kathy Bill and I would now be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator instructions] Your first question comes from Jon Arfstrom with RBC Capital Markets.
Richard just a question for you; just take your temperature on loan growth and how are you feeling about the outlook.
Youre right down the middle this quarter just wonder there is anything out there that makes you any more or less optimistic as you look to Q4 and to 2016 in terms of loan grow? I would say just more of the same which is not pessimistic but its not uber optimistic either.
I mean were seeing a nice transition to consumers getting more steady in their spending patterns.
I think well see a nice seasonal lift in credit cards in the fourth quarter.
Auto loans as you know remain strong.
Our Bank has been benefited by a strong home equity growth of portfolio and not having some other run-offs that other portfolios have had.
So you will continue to see I think all cylinders on consumer growth.
And that will be a nice challenge to probably an equal growth well continue to see in C&amp;I and CRE as well as small business.
So what you saw this quarter is probably the optimal work here for a while which is a nice 1% to 1.5% linked quarter probably even on both commercial and wholesale which gives us a nice blend for the margin.
I would say the competitiveness on the rates are pretty steady and were not seeing an undue amount of pressure except in the middle market C&amp;I space everything else seems to be managing itself pretty well.
The one area that were not growing right now is CRE.
I certainly mentioned this time we talked that its an area that we think has some undue risk in it; its a pretty overheated market in not just certain locations but tenures and the terms and the recourse non-recourse decisions that some banks are making and were not going to participate in that.
So dont be disappointed if you dont see commercial real estate grow a great deal.
Well probably hold our own and keep our market share but thats an area were going to keep particularly close eye on.
And then finally areas of real opportunity the small business category still looks good especially under the $350 000 level.
Real small businesses feeling that theyve got some real value now or some real cash flow either from their own personal circumstances or from their own business.
And were starting to see a higher percentage of take up on that both SPA and traditional small business.
And I think our market share continues to reflect the growth in the last couple of quarter.
So a lot more of the same the catalyst I think is Ive said before will be the real movement in interest rates.
The first mover impact which I think will trigger quite an impact on these C&amp;I and the larger company space for the one and not miss the opportunity to get lock in rates before they start moving up at no matter what speed but until then its just kind of more what youre seeing.
Well get it out in the marketplace with prime only quality loans at a pricing advantage that I think we continue to be able to benefit from.
And then just a follow-up on what you just said this is the first time weve seen loan yields relatively flat and earning assets yields relatively flat.
How are you feeling about just pricing in the competitive environment? Andy why dont you give him that? I think as Richard mentioned in the large corporate space I would say pricing is relatively stable; middle market can be aggressive because fewer competitors can make a difference there.
And the other area on the retail side of the equation is auto lending continues to be fairly competitive in terms of pricing.
Other than those categories relatively stable.
Thanks.
We have John McDonald with Bernstein.
Just wondering on the expense side Richard is there any way to size the potential opportunity from the increased focus on the non-FTE expense? Yes.
You got the question too.
Listen first of all were going to be very careful on not heading where we shouldnt.
And I am not -- were still a long-term company so were not going to make big mistakes here and over manage this.
But I will tell you that this discretionary addition to our otherwise prudent FTE impacts is going to start showing itself for the first time in quarter four and were going to get that a range of $10 million to $15 million benefit that we wouldnt have had if weve not started this effort.
2016 were in the middle of the planning process; so it will obviously be more than that but its going to be thoughtful.
And I think you all know that were giving you our efforts to get back to positive operating leverage on an annual basis.
Then as you look into plan next year thats our goal is to make it a positive operating leverage.
But at the same token I dont want to starve the future and find out that we over manage something and got this company back to really where it was 10 years ago where we were just investing.
So were going to be thoughtful about it but its got real impact but not huge in quarter four.
And then well have a better idea to give you since later this quarter as we look to 2016 and see what kind of impacts the cumulative facts of all that can be.
But I assure you were going to continue invest in places we need to and where the ROI is good.
I dont see an expense; Ive seen investment and well continue to be thoughtful on that distinction.
So dont want to box you into a corner to really on next year but just want to kind of get sense of your conviction level on the ability to deliver the positive operating leverage without rates.
Back in September at the conference you kind of said hey now I dont care.
Is it something you feel like pretty good about being able to deliver or really going to depend a lot on the environment still? What I said was I care less not I dont care I do care.
The fact is that were going to put into our plan an expectation for very very nominal number and size of rate increases which much less weve had in the years past so nominal that its very small that to the extent that that occurs and in case nothing happens we will struggle to get positive operating leverage.
To the extent that anything happens were going to build a plan to give it very close to that so that we can approximate revenue growth and expense growth to be somewhere near the same where revenue slightly outpaces it.
And there is a reasonable amount of increases or sooner than later then well have much bigger opportunity to provide much more positive operating leverage.
But were building it to be right at the line so that we can deliver back to what we committed start growing the Bank that way again and then any benefits we get will be a bonus.
But do we need one or two John over the next 15 months but we dont need much more than that; we dont need them all right now and they dont need to be big.
And then just on the idea of if rates stay low revenue environment stays challenging does the idea of bank acquisitions get more attractive for you Richard? And can you just elaborate what you said about kind of statute of limitations and kind of legal risks as a barrier to you are doing deals? Good memory.
I told you that I think the statute in our head kind of ends in 17.
So I dont think 16 is going to be a year where youll see us jumping into big bank deals or big branch deals.
But we do love the non-capital the business of fees and trust.
And you saw recent acquisition we made of the Auto Club card portfolio there are more where that came from John and those are very attractive deals; they are bolt-on; theyre low capital.
But for the provision you need to put in front of them.
And the small conversion task is a good way to grow the balance sheet and well continue to see opportunities there.
So I think 16 looks like the tail end of the last four five years and then 17 probably becomes the time well start looking at more traditional bank deals.
And frankly we dont really feel we need them right now.
Our deposit growth is steady; our customer growth patterns are steady; our relationships are getting deeper and weve always said wanted double down where we are; more than grow where we arent.
And so far thats working for us.
And I dont feel like were starved at all by not being able to do that.
Are there other things that you need to get to that in terms of before you can do deals in terms of regulatory check list and things like that? I dont think we -- we dont think there is an environment where thats going to necessarily impair our interest.
I think we have to watch for the trailing risk that I mentioned before especially inheriting it from that you didnt you create yourself and you also want to spend time making sure that everything you have in your houses in good order but I dont see anything new on the horizon or any new information that would change our appetite.
We have Paul Miller with FBR.
Where are you at on -- I know on acquisitions and what do you see out there; are things loosening up a little bit or some of the improvement -- and what type of size you think you can go after at this point? Paul I dont know that they are any more attractive than they have been in the last few years.
I think there are certain boards sitting around boardrooms saying at smaller sizes are we going to make it at this level can we afford with our scale to be profitable; that might change a little bit.
But were not seeing an intensely different environment that weve seen in the last eight quarters not more players not higher quality players not more desperate players.
And our attraction our interest is low.
So maybe thats because were saying were not interested were not getting a lot of bites.
But were not denying anything that we think is too good to pass.
And I actually dont think -- I am not attracted to other banks right now.
I just for all the reasons you mentioned -- I mentioned to you before this year positioning in this moment in time.
Its enough to carry your entire balance sheet across the goal line when interest rates are low and deposits dont have value but they are going to be valuable one day again and youre going to be glad you have all of those deposit gather in place.
We have 3 186 right now; thats probably quite enough for us.
I am just not -- were not seeing an attraction on our part and no one is coming out for us with a different or better story.
Are you seeing any communities or some of the small areas struggling with the low oil prices especially in some of this -- some areas youre in with the -- couldnt get it out the frac I couldnt get it out? There are markets that we have business like Lewiston and Williston and those parts of the Dakotas which is like the old gold rush; things start slowing down the town moves downstream.
We dont do much business there anyway; we didnt set up any locations; we didnt create infrastructure because we didnt think it was sustainable.
And for the most part becoming mostly a Midwest and West Coast company were outside of the Texas Panhandle and down of the Gulf Coast.
And so thats for a few customers that might have some tension tertiary impacts to energy we really dont have anything at our gun sites and none of our communities are struggling in that category either based on the consumer or the small business.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Just following up on the fee side just want to ask you guys to remind us youre getting towards better comps on a year-over-year basis in some of these fee areas.
Can you kind of walk us through in addition to mortgage in the fourth quarter to be mindful of what are the plus and minus seasonalities and where are you seeing kind of better comps versus still some challenges to face on the fee side? Hi Ken this is Andy.
In the fourth quarter I would expect to see continued strength in our merchant processing a little lower on a linked quarter basis because as Kathy mentioned we have very strong equipment sales in the third quarter that will continue at a lower level in the fourth quarter.
But the year-over-year comps will continue to be very favorable.
Card is always positive in the fourth quarter.
Corporate Payments is down a little bit because the third quarter is the big quarter for that one.
Trust is going to be dependent a little bit upon the markets so there is the market impact to that the S&amp;P market impacts fees overall.
And then mortgage fees I would expect to be modestly down in the fourth quarter.
Typical seasonality in the fourth quarter is down 5% to 15%.
So when I think about all of that is it kind of just naturally just going to be a little bit tougher for fee growth just given those couple of normal fourth quarter seasonalities plus mortgage? I think if you take out the couple of unusual items that we had this quarter the Visa gain and the student loan impact I would expect moderate growth on a linked quarter basis.
And then secondly in terms of the ability to kind of hold the margin flattish from here are we now done with kind of investment portfolio build? I know a lot of it will still be dependent on deposit growth which continues to be pretty good but what are you doing as far as the rate environment and investment portfolio builds and mix? This is Kathy.
So as you know from an investment portfolio perspective we are at our LCR coverage ratio.
So any activity that youll see in our investment portfolio along with sales will be in line with balance sheet.
So I dont expect a significant amount there.
We will continue to see some impact from the reinvestment rate through; however as some of those securities pay down and we reinvest that will come on at a bit lower spread than what we had before.
Although that mitigated a bit for us in third quarter well take our eyes on fourth quarter in the rate environment.
So I think really what causes us to think about stable margin as we go into fourth quarter this continued mix of our loan portfolio.
So as the consumer loans are -- and we expect them to continue to be a bigger piece of the growth on a linked quarterly basis that will guide us to stable margins as we look into quarter four.
The next question is from Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Richard I had a high level strategic question for you on Elavon.
Clearly its a very high return generating business that contributes nicely to your profitability but there are number of publicly traded merchant acquirers out there trading in around 25 times or so on forward earnings and thats arguably not a valuation that Elavon is getting inside of USB.
And weve gotten some questions from investors whove been wondering whether there is an opportunity there for you guys to unlock some value by spinning it off particularly with what weve seen from some other banks who have spun out their acquiring businesses and theyre actually doing quite well today and weve got some other IPOs happening now.
And just kind of with all of that as a backdrop can you speak to how you think about that? First of all Bill this has actually come up before; I think its maybe five or six years ago in the earlier stages of my CEO time.
And as it turns out we just have to go back around and describe not only the merits of having that kind of business in a bank but connected to the bank.
So first of all were an acquirer but were also an issuer and with that combination comes a remarkable benefit that an acquirer alone doesnt have.
And so we can do the testing we can do the modeling; weve talked about close loops before.
Everything we want to pilot or understand about consumer and merchant behavior is we can test both sides of that and there is an amazing amount of value to that that I would strongly want to connect to.
The second piece is we do a lot of that business for our own customers.
So instead of having to outsource an acquiring position to our retailers or our small merchant we actually provide that service to them directly.
I think still some banks provide insurance and they do it directly to their customers; we do the merchant acquiring.
And maybe as importantly we do this for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of smaller banks across the nation.
And the smaller bank if I were a smaller bank and I used to work at one I would trust the capabilities and the -- Ill call the regulatory understanding of the environment another bank more than the non-bank.
So we get a lot of benefits by being a bank doing business for other banks with white label and private label that we call it there merchant servicing.
But with it comes an amazing flow of new business and highly retained customers by being a bank to other banks.
So all that is probably not unlocked as you said but its certainly a part and parcel of the why we think this business is great why we want to keep growing it.
It has international feeling too so Ive got a nice natural hedge now with all the business we do in Europe and in Central and South America.
There is no reason that cant continue to grow as long as the economic social impacts are understood.
And so the volatility of the foreign exchange we have no other risk because its a 24-hour settlement.
So its a great business.
We love it.
The cost of entry for other banks is quite prohibitive.
So I want to stick with it; stay with it; grow with it.
But if I were to dis-couple from the bank it would become more germane to a standalone merchant acquirer that has none of the benefits I just described.
If I may separately can you share any thoughts on where the non-operating deposits at some of the larger banks have been deemphasizing or going? And are you guys actively doing anything to either keep those away or perhaps could you potentially see value in them? Our deposit base is principally operating.
We have been very good about managing the core there.
We dont have some of those non-operating more fluctuating higher volatility deposits.
So that has not been an issue for us so we have not been turning any away.
Weve been working with our customers.
And again for the most part ours are operating in core.
And is the deposit growth that you guys have been seeing just kind of a result or are you guys actively kind of managing that growth? It kind of stands out because your deposit growth still is exceeding your loan growth and were actually seeing that at the system level that thats no longer the case; loan growth has now started to exceed deposit growth.
I am just wondering if that was something that you guys were actively trying to drive.
No were really -- were not actively managing any kind of deposit growth or as Andy said were not looking at getting out of any deposits either on our books.
So really what you see in our deposit growth is what -- just the core growth that were seeing from our consumer -- our customer base.
And I will say that really is across all the categories in our wholesale and our consumer.
And keep in mind that we do have that strong base of deposits within our corporate trust area.
So we do see deposit growth really across the Company and its really just a reflection of what our customers are doing.
Were all going to have to get ready for this moment when deposits start to flow out of banks and we should celebrate it.
Youre all going to want to measure the beta and who loses the most and whats the retention factor well all be prepared for that.
But we really do want to see customers use their deposits; theyre back up to a savings level now that hasnt been seen in 12 years.
Thats great for America but now we want them to use that.
And all the field pricing for the most part benefits seem to have gone into savings in some form of either paying down debt or saving it in the bank which great which is great but we all do want to see that start to move because as weve said before the first canary in the mind is deposits go down; secondly lines of credit that are already extended but not used get used and then eventually a loans of loan start to happen.
Thats how the cycle reverses itself.
Were still not there and honestly I will be the first to cheer when deposits start to flow out because consumerism starts and because the economy is really back up and running.
Do you see Richard a scenario where that competition for deposits could potentially intensify perhaps even before the Fed raises rates or is it kind of a function of the Fed having to raise rates first? Yes its going to be definitely not before not even at that moment; it will be later when either somebody has decided they miss guided themselves in this quieter period and got rid of their deposit gathering options and need to go out and price up for it or there will be a bank or two to that wants to get clever and creative and try to get the market movement and do these laddering programs and these guarantees and things that we never did before and wouldnt recommend in the future.
But those kinds of behaviors I think youll see but they wont happen now and they wont happen even at the point of great increase.
They will happen when people start to realize deposit start to matter again and theyll have to decide to get hungry for an avenue they might have closed off.
Your next question comes from John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
On the margin got your guidance for fourth quarter for stable; on 2016 just want to see if you can give us a little bit of color there.
Do you expect that the margins should hold relatively stable through 16 as well or do you think pricing competition can still have a bit of effect on that? John were guiding into the fourth quarter and I would be hesitant to guide out past that.
But what I would say is if we continue -- the loan mix of our portfolio growth with consumer growing a little bit higher at higher spreads and we see on the wholesale I think that coupled with just our reinvestment rate impact on securities is kind of starting to narrow a bit.
There is similar or those things continue as we move into 2016 I would think that we would have similar type expectations.
But at this point were looking quarter-to-quarter and as we said probably stable into quarter four.
And then separately just wanted to get your updated thoughts for -- or the updated strategy around mortgage banking basically through the standpoint of how much you plan to still push production there and then your retention strategy versus originate to sell.
So if its a qualifying mortgage Freddie or Fannie we will sell that.
It is a better financial decision from our perspective to originate and sell those mortgages.
If it is a jumble or non sellable mortgage well put down on the balance sheet; weve been a little bit more aggressive with that particularly with our own customers have talked about that.
So that would be our expectation.
Weve gone from about 21st in terms of size to fifth or sixth and I would expect us to continue to be in that range.
Our particular emphasis is to put more branch distribution as a focus in terms of our core growth.
And that is something that we continue to drive and are successful and increasing.
So I expect to see us grow aftermarket grabs little bit above the market particularly focused on branch and if its sellable we will sell it.
Last question is just around the reserve edged a little bit lower this quarter by a few bps.
Do you think all things equal that should still see that reserve to loan ration edge lower over the next couple of quarters as well? Bill do you want to take that? Sure I can take that.
So were getting to the point where our reserve release has been de minimis really and we have to weigh the balance of continued improving loan quality versus loan growth.
So were looking at a point now where we -- were probably flattened out to seeing some increases in the wholesale area and the one area where there is still some potential for credit opportunity reserve opportunities in residential mortgage.
But were just about at that point where those -- that mix is flattening out and I expect that will eventually have to provide for loan growth.
The next question comes from Vivek Juneja with JPMorgan.
Hi couple of questions for you folks.
Firstly the equipment sales in merchant processing that you were talking about how much of that is due to the new EMV adoption by merchants and when does that get done? Vivek this is Andy.
So the acceleration the increase is principally due to that EMV.
We always sell equipments in any particular quarter its higher in this quarter and last quarter I would expect it to continue at least for quarter or two perhaps not at the levels we saw in the third quarter but it is principally due to that acceleration because merchants are buying chip enabled terminals.
Thats what I thought that it probably accelerated.
And the card portfolio you acquired from Auto Club what was that was in this quarter and how much were the receivables on that Andy? It was $525 million right at the end of the quarter.
So no impact in quarter three; youll see that impact in quarter four.
525 million? The portfolio looks exactly like our portfolio.
I mean from charge-offs to revolve average spend; its right down the fairway and its a complete continuation of the kind of service that we provide that quality of customer.
Is it like a private label type portfolio Richard or is it just a regular or co-branded or is it going to be more -- given that it says Auto Club; I would think or is this some kind of affinity type? Its an Auto Club branded card that is with our support and backing.
So its on our balance sheet our processing but Auto Club has the rewards that go along with it.
One last thing consumer banking if I look at the efficiency ratio that has risen all throughout the last year.
Can you talk a little bit about what -- any plans to bring that down or change the direction of that? So Vivek consumer banking is the most impacted business line by the low rate environment in terms of their earnings as we sit today.
So they have a lot of deposits.
Those deposits on a relative basis are below the typical spreads and value that we have on a long-term basis.
And that impact is whats driving their efficiency ratio.
So as rates start to move you will see that business line more than any other start to improve in terms of efficiency ratio.
Thats why we could be wrong but at least were going to have the luxury of deciding later.
But branch closures look very attractive now because theyre not only not very profitable theyre actually going in the wrong direction as this long interest rate stays low and deposit values are much less than they will be in the future.
But there will be a time when rates go back up.
I know you and I are old enough to remember and deposits will be the governor on how many loans you can make.
And thats the benefit were always going to have on these interlopers who are coming in with these great lending ideas.
They dont have the deposits and we shouldnt give up the one thing we have which is deposits which will be the key driver.
So for us we have been rationalizing our branch system a lot.
We dont look for headlines on it.
Weve been retooling what happens in the branches all the things that you would expect us to do and closing where theyre necessary and opening with theyre necessary.
But were by and large a believer in the branch network.
We think its the best core deposits; its best quality customers we get from a branch referred loan or credit line.
And yet right now itd be a bad time to evaluate their value because at this point at the end of a long recession theyre not very attractive.
The next question is from Chris Mutascio with KBW.
I hate to do this to you.
I was on another conference call that was running at the same time.
Would you remind me hashing just briefly your opening comments about expenses and the kind of initiatives youre looking through? I think Ill just repeat it for everybody.
What weve been doing for a year now is watching our FTE assets and be very prudent about where we add them.
Weve recently gone through a rationalization program where our lower performers that were not performing just not the highest level given the importance of an FTE weve now used a company program to do a talent upgrade and effectively use people out of the company.
And on top of that in the last quarter we added this discretionary expense review which is the other half of the expense categories and started looking at where we dont need to be spending money at this point in time until rates move.
And thats some we gave some color around.
I said that in the quarter four it will be a $10 million to $15 million net benefit that we wouldnt have had if we hadnt taken that extra action.
For 2016 it will obviously be more than that but were not ready to size it because I am also not going to necessarily give you guys a sense that all expenses stop because were just reallocating the right things and in some cases were going to be investing in places we have been in the past.
So too early to rate for 16 but definitely net positive and our goal is to get to the positive operating leverage at the minimum annual level starting next year.
I appreciate that and I do apologize for having to rehash that.
My one follow-up Kathy specific to fourth quarter did you say that expenses will be up over third quarter and if so was that up from the reported number of about 2.77 billion? Yes I would say its up from a reported number and thats principally driven as we said by the fact that our tax credit amortization expense is -- quarter four is our seasonally highest increase related tax credit amortization expense.
And we said that that would probably go up in the range of about 65 million to 75 million similar to what we saw in previous trends.
And then you could expect to see that increase being partially offset by some of the elevated costs that weve caught out here in quarter three.
And your final question is from Nancy Bush with NAB Research.
Richard a couple; I cant remember if it was last quarter or the quarter before you were sort of the last bank CEO to kind of throw in the towel and say that the economy was getting better definitively better.
Do you want to repeal that now? No I dont remember being that strong.
But I would say its not getting worse.
I know I said that before.
Undeniably its not getting worse.
I mean things arent going backwards; people arent going in the direction of not investing; people arent afraid to buy cars; people arent afraid to use their credit line.
I think for a more political discussion there is the haves and have-nots right in the barbell of who is participating who is not as greater than it used to be.
But being a prime only lender and being at a pretty high quality on the line of customers were not impacted mostly by that and were feeling a small slow steady almost monotonous and Ill call tortuously flow improvement over the course of time.
I do believe Nancy Ive always believed it I could be totally wrong and happy to be if I am but when the first rate moves a real move not a thought of it not a predilection of it not a guess of it; I do think that the corporate America starts to move quickly and theyll start to take advantage first because they have most to gain.
And then I think theyll start to create some incentive -- create consumerism and I think were off to the races.
I think for the first time business will drive out of the slow recovery than consumers.
And Ill call it recovery because its not a recession; it still feels slow and very measured.
So Im not writing home about it.
Without interest rates moving you just keep seeing us all doing a little more of what we were doing before managing to the needs of customers who do have the wherewithal and do have the motives still want to keep growing and benefiting in their lives but plenty of people arent playing yet and the savers are getting killed.
And a couple quarters before that you had said that you had a long list projects that you wanted to do and that you would start doing them as quickly as the interest rate environment turned but that you were being very cautious on taking on new projects in light of the expense control that was necessary.
So are there any of those projects that are on that list that need to get done no matter what the interest rate environment is particularly if this rate environment is going to go on longer than anybody had anticipated? Yes there is two answers to that.
One is mobile transitions to banking channels.
Were sending money on that.
Weve talked about our growth; our hundreds of people in Atlanta that work on those topics.
I havent starved that one bit because that is the changing environment wherein we have to be a leader on that; were expected and we have to invest.
So thats a good ROI in the long-term; its not a near-term ROI.
The other one Nancy is were spending money on compliance.
What Ive learned -- if youve heard my speech its like weve gone from baggage handlers to pilots same company.
Baggage handlers every once in a while make a mistake and up until now its okay no one loses their lives but pilot from the same company cant crash a plane.
Id had to move all of our employees from baggage handlers to pilots.
So were still in that transition.
So regulators have required that of us as well.
So Im spending money on either back office or more often than not technology to replace some of the error ridden places where human interaction creates an outcome that is not acceptable anymore.
And that investments worth it not because its a better product necessarily but because its a better compliance outcome the safer way to earn when you dont have the potential of penalties and fines and risks.
So those are two things that have not been touched.
Other things would be the more attractive ways to just increase the capabilities we do in the back office that no one really sees but its just more elegant; less involvement where people have to touch customers where customers can self serve.
All those things are -- some of those are nice to have; where they are not required were holding back on those.
And those would be the things well add back the minute we start seeing revenue growth.
Ill now turn the call back to Sean OConnor for closing remarks.
Thank you for listening to our review of third quarter results.
And please contact me this afternoon if you have any follow-up questions.
Thanks.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the U.S.
Bancorps Fourth Quarter of 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Following the review of the results by Richard Davis Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Kathy Rogers U.S.
Bancorps Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon Eastern through Friday January 22nd at 12 Midnight Eastern Time.
I will now turn the conference call over to Bob Kleiber of Investor Relations for U.S.
Bancorp.
Thank you Maria and good morning to everyone who has joined our call.
Richard Davis Kathy Rogers Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are joining me today to review U.S.
Bancorps fourth quarter and full year 2015 results and to answer your questions.
Richard and Kathy will be referencing a slide presentation during their prepared remarks.
A copy of the slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our Web site at usbank.com.
I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during todays call are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of todays presentation in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.
I will now turn the call over to Richard.
Thank you Bob.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining our call.
I will begin our report with a few highlights from U.S.
Bancs 2015 full year results on Page 3 of the presentation.
U.S.
Bancorp reported record net income of $5.9 billion or $3.16 per diluted common share.
We achieved industry-leading profitability with the return on average assets of 1.44% a return on average common equity of 14% and an efficiency ratio of 53.8% for the year.
Total average loans grew by 4.1% adjusted for student loans and average deposits grew a strong 7.7% year-over-year.
Credit quality continue to improve with the 12.1% of decline in net charge-offs and a 15.8% decrease in non-performing assets.
Our capital position remains strong and we returned $4 billion or 72% of our earnings to our shareholders through dividends and share buybacks during 2015.
Turning to Slide 4 and our quarterly highlights U.S.
Banc reported record revenue of $5.2 billion and net income of $1.5 billion or $0.80 per diluted common share an increase of 1.3% year-over-year.
The fourth quarter of 2015 included a gain from the sale of an HSA account deposit portfolio with diluted earnings per share up by $0.1.
I am very pleased this quarter with the momentum in our linked quarter loan growth the continued strength of our payments business and the improvement in our operating leverage.
Total average loans grew 1.7% linked quarter adjusted for student loans which exceeded the high-end of our 1% to 1.5% range.
In addition we continue to see strong growth in average deposits which included consumer net new account growth of 3.2%.
Credit quality continued to remain strong.
Total net charge-offs and non-performing assets declined on a year-over-year basis and non-performing assets declined on a linked quarter basis as well.
Slide 5 provides you with the five quarter history of our performance metrics and they remain among the best in the industry.
Moving to the graph on the right you can see that this quarters net interest margin of 3.06% was relatively stable as expected improving 2 basis points from the third quarter.
This was primarily driven by a higher loan growth which reduced the amount of cash balances.
Our efficiency ratio for the fourth quarter was 53.9%.
We expect this ratio to remain in the low 50s going forward as we continue to see the results of our expanded efficiency effort that we introduced last year which includes prudent FTE management and a renewed emphasis on other discretionary spending.
As I said earlier I am particularly pleased that we were able to achieve positive operating leverage for the quarter which reverses a trend of negative leverage over the past several quarters.
I believe this positions us well as we move into 2016.
While prudent expense management remains a priority for our company we also continue to focus on revenue growth and innovation which means investing in those businesses and products that will provide strong returns.
During the quarter we announced a new agreement with Fidelity Investments.
U.S.
Banc is now the exclusive issuer of the Fidelity Investments rewards card program.
As part of this arrangement which closed at the end of 2015 we purchased the existing card portfolio of $1.6 billion.
This follows the announcement from last October about our card issuing partnership with the Auto Club Trust and the purchase of an existing $500 million portfolio.
These agreements exemplify the strength of our payments business model and a continued commitment to strategic growth for our Company.
Turning to Slide 6 the company reported record net revenue in the fourth quarter of $5.2 billion a 0.8% increase from the prior year which included core revenue growth and a gain on the sales of the HSA deposit portfolio partially offset by the Nuveen gain recorded in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The revenue momentum we are seeing is primarily due to our growing balance sheet and growth in the number of our fee based businesses including our payments and trust businesses.
Kathy will now give you a few more details about our fourth quarter results.
Thanks Richard.
The average loan and deposit growth is summarized on Slide 7.
Average total loans outstanding increased by over $10 billion or 4.2% year-over-year and 1.7% linked quarter adjusted for student loans.
As you may recall we moved our student loan portfolio to held-for-sale in the first quarter of 2015 and subsequently retuned it to held-for-investment during the third quarter.
In the fourth quarter the increase in average loans outstanding on a year-over-year basis was led by strong growth in average total commercial loans of 9% and 2.5% linked quarter.
The strongest linked growth I've seen in 2015.
Line utilization however remained relatively consistent with the previous quarter and flat year-over-year.
Consumer loans again showed positive momentums lead by credit card and auto loans.
Average auto credit cards increased 4.7% year-over-year and 5% on a linked quarter basis which included the acquisition of approximately $500 million Auto Club portfolio at the end of quarter three.
Auto loan growth remains strong up 13% year-over-year and 2% linked quarter.
Residential mortgages grew 2.1% year-over-year reversing a declining trend over the last several quarters and rose 2.2% on a linked quarter basis.
We currently expect total average linked quarter loan growth to be in the 1% to 1.5% range in quarter one.
Total average deposits increased $19 billion or 6.9% over the same quarter of last year and 1.7% on a linked quarter basis.
Growth in non-interest bearing and low interest checking money market and saving deposits remained strong on a year-over-year basis and continue to more than offset the run-off of maturing larger dollar time deposits.
Turning to Slide 8 and credit quality total net charge-offs declined 1% on a year-over-year basis and increased 4.5% on a linked quarter basis primarily due to lower recoveries.
The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding was 47 basis points in the fourth quarter a slight increase over the third quarter.
Non-performing assets decreased by 2.8% on a linked quarter basis and 15.8% over the fourth quarter of 2014.
The fourth quarter provision for credit losses was equal to net charge-offs which compares to a release of reserves of $20 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 and $10 million in the third quarter of 2015.
As we move into 2016 we would expect that reserves will begin to build the support loan growth.
Given the mix and quality of our portfolio we currently expect net charge-offs and total non-performing assets to remain relatively stable in the first quarter of 2016.
Slide 9 gives a view of our fourth quarter and full year of 2015 results versus comparable time periods.
As I mentioned our diluted EPS of $0.80 includes $0.01 related to net impact of the sale of our HSA deposit portfolio partially offset by accruals related to the legal and compliance matters.
Fourth quarter net income decreased 12 million or 0.8% year-over-year this is principally due to a higher provision for credit losses increase in net interest income primarily driven by growth in earnings assets lower non-interest income impacted by the 2014 Nuveen gain partially offset by increases in payments related revenue trust and investment management fees and the HSA deposit sale gain.
On a linked quarter basis net income was lower by $13 million or 0.9% mainly due to predicted seasonal increase in non-interest expense and an increase in the provision for credit losses partially offset by higher net revenue primarily due to loan growth.
Turning to Slide 10 net interest income increased year-over-year by $72 million or 2.6%.
The increase was the result of growth in average earning assets of 5.1% partially offset by a lower net interest margin.
The net interest margin of 3.06% was 8 basis points lower than the fourth quarter of 2014.
The decline was primarily due to a change in loan portfolio mix as well as the growth in the investment portfolio at lower average rates and lower reinvestment rates.
Net interest income increased $50 million on a linked quarter basis primarily due to higher average total loans.
The net interest margin of 3.06% was 2 basis points higher than the third quarter.
The increase in the net interest margin was principally due to higher loan growth which resulted in lower cash balances.
We currently expect that the net interest margin will be relatively stable in the first quarter.
Slide 11 highlights non-interest income which decreased $30 million or 1.3% year-over-year.
The year-over-year decrease in non-interest income was primarily due to the impact of the 2014 Nuveen gain partially offset by fee revenue growth and the HSA deposit share gain.
Higher credit and debit card revenue trust and investment management fees and merchant processing services were partially offset by lower mortgage banking revenue primarily due to an unfavorable change in the valuation of mortgage servicing rights net of hedging activities.
Momentum in our payment businesses was reflected in our fourth quarter results.
Credit and debit card fees grew 8.1% on a year-over-year basis principally driven by higher volumes which were up 6% compared to 5.3% in quarter three.
Merchant processing revenue increased 2.3% year-over-year and approximately 6.5% excluding the impact of foreign currency rate changes.
The growth was driven by higher transaction volumes account growth and equipment sales to merchants related to new chip card technology requirements.
These equipment sales were modestly lower than the amount recognized in quarter three as expected.
On a linked quarter basis non-interest income was higher by $14 million or 0.6% principally due to seasonally higher credit and debit card revenue and the HSA deposit sale gain partially offset by lower corporate payment product revenue reflecting the seasonally higher quarter three government related transaction volume.
Mortgage banking revenue was also lower as expected primarily due to seasonally lower origination revenue.
We would expect that fee revenue in quarter one will be seasonally lower on a linked quarter basis.
Moving to Slide 12 non-interest expense was essentially flat year-over-year.
Higher compensation expense which reflected the impact of merit increases and higher staffing for risk and compliance activity along with higher employee benefit expense driven by pension cost were largely offset by lower marketing and business development expenses principally due to charitable contributions recognized in the fourth quarter of 2014 and lower other expense reflecting a net year-over-year impact of legal accruals.
On a linked quarter basis non-interest expense increased $34 million or 1.2% as predicted reflecting seasonally higher costs related to investments and tax advantage projects and accruals related to legal and compliance matters partially offset by the favorable impact of reduced mortgage related compliance and talent upgrade costs which were elevated in quarter three and declined as expected in quarter four.
Compensation expense declined reflecting the impact of expense management initiatives and declines in variable compensation.
Employee benefits expense also declined driven by lower payroll tax expense and healthcare costs.
We would expect expenses to be relatively stable in quarter one compared quarter four seasonally higher benefits expense will be offset by seasonally lower tax credit amortization and the impact of the credit card portfolio acquisition.
Turning to Slide 13 as Richard mentioned our capital position remains strong.
We returned 61% of our earnings to shareholders during the quarter.
Dividends accounted for 32% while stock repurchases accounted for the remaining 29%.
For the full year we returned 72% of our earnings to shareholders and we expect to remain in our 60% to 80% range going forward.
Our common equity tier 1 capital ratio estimated using the Basel III standardized approach as is fully implemented at December 31st was 9.1% which is well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement.
Our intangible book value per share rose to 17.44 at December 31st representing a 9.3% increase over the same quarter of last year and a 1.4% increase over the prior quarter.
I will now turn the call back to Richard.
Thanks Kathy.
Im proud of our fourth quarter and full year results.
We reported record full year net income and record revenue for the quarter.
We remained industry leading performance measures and reported a $0.19 return on tangible common equity in the quarter.
We delivered on our promise to work toward positive operating leverage with the efforts that we've made through our efficiency program.
And we continue to make strategic investments in our businesses and focus on innovation for the benefit of our customers.
As we look at 2016 we start the year from a position of strength as we continue to build revenue momentum thoughtfully manage expenses work diligently to exceed customer expectations and to create value for our shareholders in a competitive marketplace.
We remain focused on delivering consistent predictable and repeatable financial results for the benefit of our customers our employees our communities and our shareholders.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Andy Kathy Bill and I would now be happy to answer your questions.
Maria we can go ahead now and open for questions.
[Operator instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jon Arfstrom of RBC Capital Markets.
Richard maybe a question for you on just winding and your overall move obviously pretty negatives some of the global macro stuff that we're seeing but at the same time you've held your growth guidance your typical growth trends you are actually come in a bit ahead of that.
So maybe if you could just step back and give us a bit of the state of the union of winding and how you're feeling about the economy and I guess I'm also curious in terms what you're seeing from the consumer in terms of their all time loan demand there? First of all I have predicted that question I was thinking of it this morning but a club with American bank we do primarily business in the domestic United States and we're very much a consumer small business payments kind of a company so just by what is going on in the backdrop around the world with the China re-evaluation and what's happening in oil and some of those areas which were not immune to balances and process we're not seeing the majority of that on our books or by our customers.
So we're actually seeing a continued steady I'll say slow but steady improvement every quarter and our customers are reflecting that across the board from the large corporate customers who are still doing robust M&amp;A transactions to restructuring the portfolio all the way down to the small businesses which continue to grow for us double-digits based on their interest and setting themselves up for our better consumer wide recovery and just general people who are using banks for their retail services.
So I am quite optimistic against that negative backdrop and I know we wont be immune to all of that.
But based on our geography based on our mix of business based on our history and based on our appetite for risk I think were actually fairly immune from most of those issues at this stage and yet we trespassed for the worst scenarios that would of course affect us.
So I would say the across the board from a lending perspective that same range you see in the 1% and 1.5% were predicting again for this quarter already off to a really nice start and were not seeing any disruption neither from the 25 basis point increase which we knew would be more symbolic and actually not yet from the impacts of the stock market of the China re-evaluation.
So at this point were remaining optimistic and have cautious and careful way.
And then is Bill Parker there? Bill is here here you go.
Yes hi John.
Hey Bill.
Anything to add in terms of from a credit perspective and the cash you talked about the reserve releases are over and youve all been very transparent on that.
But anything from a credit perspective thats making you a bit more nervous so that is a change maybe compared to a quarter or two ago? Yes Jon first Id direct you to the dependency slide and you can look through those.
And if you look at of the portfolios if you see sort of year-over-year delinquency patterns are either stable or better than last year.
So overall very strong of course the one exception is energy and some of the metals and mining related credit.
We do have that small energy portfolio of 1.2% of our total loans.
So Id just say we have seen some downgrades there and weve been building our allocated reserves for that all year long.
But we built that at low 30s price of oil.
So we feel like were good for now but well see where oil settles down but either way thats not going to have a material impact on kind of the overall go forward credit performance.
And in terms of the way we see things just the assumptions should be maybe go right pass back up in terms of the provision over charge offs just building for loan growth.
Is that how we should approach it? Yes exactly yes.
I would still jump in there Jon it is the old fashioned days where youre supposed to provide for the next new loan right and I think were at that inflection point.
I dont know if well start moving up very quickly because were settling here at that turning point of no provision.
But we dont see anything in the near-term thats going to harm that and I want to pick up on energy and metals and mining.
We do stress test our portfolios routinely and not just for those particular categories but tangent effects it might have on other parts of our customers and portfolios and in certain geographies.
And as Bill mentioned weve increased the reserve levels for both of those categories and continue to have the room and the expectation if we need to do more we can.
Our next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian of Bank of America.
When we last spoke Richard I think you were fairly optimistic about your prospects for 2016 and I think we talked about the concept of USB being a maximized franchise.
As we think about building revenue momentum slow but steady into 2016 could you give us sort of what the top-three drivers are in terms of what could drive year-over-year of improvement in revenue outside of of course? And any more increases on the short-end? Yes sure I will actually I asked her more than the question as I think I also mentioned when you and I have the fire side chat I might add without the fireplace.
Youre talking about what kind of assumptions we would in our plan and we actually expected to have two rate increases from the last time I talked to you.
We hope for one in December we expect a one in June.
And that is really the amount of the risk we have placed into our plan this year so when were halfway with one of them at least at this point if it's fixed.
So that alone does actually help us.
So were not relying on that to the very point you made.
The most important thing that happened to us is just a continued improve recovering economy where people feel they can consume people feel they dont have to save quite as much and that theyve got a higher backstop and either in their own statements account or in their home equity or in their own debt positions where they can start spending money and feel more comfortable about it thats going to be huge for us.
Thats way more important than any interest rate because as I said earlier were a consumer middle market wholesale bank and those sort of things that matter the most.
But I want to say the things that we could our shoulder against to watch for improvement this year one will the continued success were having in relationship management with our customers.
I think Ive said this before but were developing a much smarter technology around who our customers are what they expect what theyre likely next needs are particularly around the mobile banking aspect.
And so were investing a great deal of our money and time.
And in this whole efficiency program you never heard me take anything away from our investment and innovation and entrepreneurship and were not because I do believe thats going to be the next big idea.
So having a payments business and a bank connected together we have the best of both roles because we can touch virtually any paradigm buyer seller and moving money back and forth.
So thats our number one were going to lean on the bank and the payments business thats coming together.
Number two the corporate trust business thats been remarkably good for us doesnt get a lot of visibility its actually confusing to a lot of people but were not only domestically quite large and capable but when you start looking at who thats starting to build over across the pound over in Europe with both our front administration and our new class of corporate trust were going to expect a lot from those two businesses as well in 2016.
And finally I'll say the next chapter in our wholesale bank becoming we've moved out of the audition stage and were now bonafide one of the important banks to deal with the large Fortune 100 companies and you think from an M&amp;A deal to our first pallet lead on the deal to just moving money on a very sophisticated way.
We are continuing to see momentum there I'm quite proud of what the wholesale commercial bank has done we are celebrating Dick Paynes retirement this quarter and we are also celebrating the addition of two new leaders coming up from within the company to run the wholesale bank and the capital markets and I expect a lot from the two of them and they've got the capability and energy to pick up where Dick has left us which is a really good starting point.
So I would say those three things Erika to answer your question.
Thank you for that.
And just a follow-up on the question on credit oil and gas and metals and mining aside charge off level for the industry have been abnormally low and I guess maybe Bill if you dont mind jumping in could you remind us what you think given the risk portfolio embedded U.S.
Bank right now.
What would you think is your normal charge off rate and how long does it take to get there? So again when we talk about normalized we call that through the cycle rate and that a rate that we've talked about before this between 95 and 100 basis points but you dont really get there you just go through it when you are going into a recession or you are in a recession.
So in times where there is stable employment as running right now the rate you see for us is sort of the what would be a normal rate in this kind of economic environment but that over the cycle rate is something that we calculate every quarter and it remains between 95 and 100 basis points it really has not materially changed for us for many-many years.
Understood thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Bernstein.
Richard I guess I was kind of wondering how should we track the progress of your new emphasis on the non FTE expense control this year where should we look at to kind of see how you are doing from the external metrics and then what kind of confidence level do you have and the ability to deliver a positive operating leverage this year in the environment that you are planning for? First of all you can measure all of our expenses quarter-to-quarter and I think you know we are as transparent as silathane so were going to tell you exactly any moving parts and then you can model what's left but you will see the benefits in this quarter and will you see them in the next this two current year of both the FTE watch hold placement we have had on adding people unless we needed them and the non the more discretionary expenses.
I will tell you however and we are also going to tell you about along the way how we are going to spend money on things that we think are quite important I will start bringing more visibility to our innovation budget and the kind of money we are spending to be at the front-end of some of the those new ideas and were going to be introducing a very significant branding and reputation campaign in 2016 which impacts some of that savings will go toward because I want to keep investing I just want to put in the more of the right places.
So no watch for existing number but watch for the moving parts and I will give you the visibility of that so that you can make that assessment over the course of time.
In terms of what you are expecting for kind of revenue expense growth this year Richard and? Well done I forgot [Multiple Speakers] yes we are we no one quarter is going to be a positive operating leverage in this environment but we are still planning this year our plan say positive operating as if for 2016 I will also remind all of you that quarter one is our weakest quarter so its not the one I'm going to be able to showcase and show off as our strongest quarter because this is seasonally lower for us but it will I think a better first quarter than you have seen than the lot but it is certainly is going to be on its way to a positive operating leverage if we dont get at least that second of two rate increases that will put a challenge on that ability so I'm not going to make any guarantees but I'm more concerned less about the rate itself and the fact that rates moving up will continue to reflect that the Fed believes the economy is stronger what we care most about is just strong economy the metrics and the arithmetic of the 25 basis points is far or less important so we will get to watch it as we go and I'll keep you as clearly outlined on how we think that's going.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up on the loan growth what got better this quarter it gets you into that 1.7% growth and what are the assumptions underlie the outlook for the 1% to 1.5% range going forward is it more of a consumer pickup driving that and do you assume as the United slows a bit here going forward? Hi John this is Andy.
I would corporate continues with the strong as you saw year-over-year growth about 9% and strong on a linked quarter basis I think what's turned a little bit more positive is the consumer side of the equation our two fronts our mortgage activity on balance sheet that jumbles principally continues to be strong and home equity for the first time in a whiles were seeing growth in that category and as we dig into that a little bit further I understand what that's about we are seeing consumers taking home equity and using it for home equity so using it to improve their homes furnishings and things of that sort so those two categories are strengthening and finally card spend and card balances are also growing so I do think we see continued strength on wholesale with increasing strength on consumer.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor of Deutsche Bank.
Kathy if I could just follow-up on the 1Q expense outlook I think you said stable linked quarter are there any one time expenses related to that Fidelity Card deal because I think you normally have some seasonality on the way down on expenses on one tier? Yes let me talk about that there's a couple of things that are going on with that because you're right we normally would see a first quarter decline in expenses but I'll answer your first question and add some more light so yes we would expect to see some onetime expenses related to the Fidelity card deal that will come through in the first quarter and then just the overall operating expenses related to that will increase as we move through the year starting in the first quarter.
Additionally if you think about first quarter expense we usually have the seasonally lower first quarter of course our tax credit expense in fourth quarter was lower than we normally would have seen and that's really due to a mix of where that's recorded so you also saw that our tax rate was a bit higher.
So that benefit that we get on a linked quarter basis for tax credit is going to be lower than what you'd have seen in the past and that coupled with the Fidelity card business shows to be relatively stable.
Okay.
And then a bigger picture Richard for you maybe you can comment on your ability and appetite on the acquisition side of things I think you guys talked about in the third quarter 10-Q some things around to know your customer and obviously there's some price resetting occurring right now as we speak so maybe you could update it for the current environment and how you can re-apply your net if at all? Yes.
So the answer I'll give you Matt first and foremost is what you see we've done is what we want to do more up so you saw these two fairly large portfolios in the card business that we continue to be attracted toward these are picking up portfolios that already have momentum the picking up portfolios and we're finding more and more people interested in allowing us to take a look at that.
So I hope there'll be more of those.
We've talked before about our merchant acquiring business and the -- where we've cobbled that together over the last now 15 years is to find a partner work with him on a JV kind of a basis with their rent to own sense and there's more of that in Europe that we're continuing to look at and hopefully opportunities in that regard as well.
And then finally the more classic kind of opportunities I talk about innovation and there maybe some small businesses of small companies from small garage deal that we might find where we want to bring the capability in house and not outsource it and if those come along at the right price at the right moment we'll also not hesitate there.
As it relates to full bank in acquisitions and interests our interests remains exactly what it was we dont have a high interest and there's no one knocking on our door and yet at the same time it's a good thing because given the consent order that we entered into in October we wouldn't be allowed to do a full bank acquisition until we're through and of half that considerable on which we're moving swiftly along and actually have been predicting that we can move that as swiftly as anyone ever has.
So we're well aware that at the point in time we want to buy someone we want to be past that point and our goal is to be there but now it's not inhibiting anything that we would otherwise want to do and I think portfolios and merchant acquirer will be the two places you should watch the most.
And what so fast as someone else's gone through a consent order? You actually dont know because I am not exactly should roll us into one but I know that there is in our case we've talked with our OCC which is the lead regulator here and made it clear to them that our goals to satisfy the aspects of the consent order that would otherwise preclude us from being able to buy things and make that our number one area they've made that clearly well that they understand that's our goal and I don't believe you have to be all out to be all done you just need to be accomplishing the things that are most concerned to them as it relates to branch related know your customer thing.
So we're going to approach on that basis.
And the OCC has also been on record saying how one of their goals this year is to move more swiftly with the closure of open issues and we're going to hopefully be one of the first to prove that and we'll work through that swiftly and we've been working on it actually for quite some time and have lined everything up now to move out of that as soon as they give us permission as we prove our sustainability.
So it's not impairing us now I mean well if we're not out of that in a year or two but it's not in the harms-way at this point now.
I mean I could just squeeze in one more here I guess the point I'm getting at is -- you've been more conservative while pre-crisis during the crisis post-crisis and I'm trying to get sense of if the mentality is lets see if some of our conservatism and capital and deposit base to look for opportunities out there I mean my guess some sellers maybe interested at a much lower price than before there's some assets in the capital markets that are being significantly re-priced you could probably gain a lot of share on energy if you wanted to now so I'm just trying to get a sense if like is that the mentality or is it just [Multiple Speakers].
We've been together the whole time so what you know about us is we kind of set a monster in place which is we will never do anything that doesn't look sustainable and repeatable and it sounds corny but we've done it long enough it's real.
And you think about opportunities that come along if it is a portfolio and it's priced perfectly and it's within the scheme of our risk tolerance absolutely we're all over it.
Many of them that will come to us at a slightly disadvantaged risk perspective and if we don't convince ourselves to make it up in volume or to buy it now and change our original mantra we'll take the hit from you guys for not having that acquisition but we will take the benefit years later or months later and we dont have a problem.
So what I'd say our conservatism is every bit exactly what it was before and during the downturn and we're not tinted by anything right now that would otherwise cause us to change that thinking and that could disappoint a few people that slow and steady it kind of wins the race so were going to stay in that boat.
Our next question comes from the line Scott Siefers of Sandler O'Neill.
Lets see first one is sort of a piggy back question did you guys quantify the specific size of both the extra taking and then the legal and compliance accruals? And if not I mean could you please? Yes.
I mean it is our job to do.
We have the best to know it out so I could [Multiple Speakers] either away so it is not...
So thank you very much.
I am calling you for the money.
Yes.
So the Scott yes so the gain on the HSA sale is right in that $50 million range and I would suggest you think about half of that were related to the regulatory and legal accruals.
And then just so I am certain the guidance for fees and expenses in the first quarter is off the reported numbers out am I right? Thats right.
So thank you for that and then second question either for you Kathy or Richard just as it relates to margin.
Even though you guys characterized as relatively stable it was still up which I consider a good thing.
Just curious in your mind what it would take whether its how much more rate increases how many more rate increases I should say or an increased pace of the increases until sort of the buyers get a little more optimistic in other words at what point do we more visibly see the margins starting to expand? Yes.
I think there is a couple of things I do think we need a couple of more rate increases to see a material change in our margin.
I think that was as important Scott is that we have to weve been talking a lot about this pricing pressure on some of the different portfolios.
And I think we need to see that start to stabilize a little bit.
But certainly as we think about where we are today and if you think about where our margin improved from last quarter.
We did have some nice growth in our loan portfolio which allowed us to essentially fund out some cash for that allowed us to go forward.
So as if we move forward I think the mix of our business interest rates increasing will certainly help in some of that price pressure easing will certainly be in potential list.
Our next question comes from the line of John Pancari of Evercore ISI.
Just back on that on the margin comment just to clarify that so basically if you dont see any incremental rate hikes if you dont get that June hike is it fair to assume that you expect a relatively stable margin through all 2016 or could you see degradation? I think its going to come and I would suggest that it would probably I would say it start with relatively stable.
But I think some of the caveats for that would be really around some of the mix of our portfolio and then of our loan growth and then also as you know in our securities portfolio we have about $2 billion run off so to the extent where those reinvestment rates falls could potentially impact the margin.
And then also I would tell you were keeping our eyes very close on the long term rates and whats happening on the long term rates.
So I think all of those together would impact it but with no rate increase I would say were probably in a little bit of a steady state here.
And then back to the M&amp;A topic Richard I heard when you said about interest and M&amp;A.
If you did not have the consent order in place what would be your appetite around larger whole bank deals? I know you used to say you had no interest in the holding company transactions and shying away from large deals.
But is that appetite steadily changing given the disruption and the opportunity maybe to capitalize on valuations et cetera? No you can all exaggerate on no.
But the reason I said I am on record for a quite while John saying that from our own experiences of the statute I am going to call it a statute limitations its not legal by any means was that you can still pick up a company and you can still be placed in harms away for dealing with any of their potential problems involving their own.
And I think its all the way back to 2007.
When you think of 07 that is in your window on when things start to roll off in terms of statute and were already seeing things continue to come to and people try to get under the wire.
Ive always said 2017 will be the first time we want to look at where our appetite for bringing on a risk into our company as we simply couldnt do diligence for and couldnt possibly imagine that at least elegantly have lined up with our current moment where we cant do it anyway but we dont want to anyway and I wouldnt be interested.
The pricing doesnt change you cant get a good enough deals if you dont know what youre getting.
And I could be wrong but I feel very strongly about that and have for a long time and I would say that as the moments clear lets say a year or more from now our ability is there our appetite will be higher the moment and time I think will be safer and all those things will line up and then we could be very much involved and engaged in that.
But the reason were most importantly of less interested is we dont really need it I mean much of is attractive to have the wallpaper behind me and somebody else shaking hands it's really not necessary for this company and we are in every business line that were in that we want were not in anything we dont want to be in if we do we sell it like the HSA deposit business.
And we dont covered anything we dont have we just want to be better at what were doing and do it better deeper wherever we are.
That would be attractive to me but its not going to be a headline on kind of the deal at least as long as I am around this never has been its just going to be a steady state kind of an approach.
But I would hope that all those stars would line up so our options are better in a year or two from now.
And then if I could just throw in one more on the loan growth side on the residential mortgage front can you just I know you indicated that growth could remain around where it is I think you implied that and so you still have the appetite to continue to add to that portfolio regardless of what the longer end of the curve is doing here? Yes.
We continue to add residential mortgages principally jumbo prime mortgages home equity as I said is the other category that's growing and balance credit cards.
Those are areas that can the slope is upward the area continues to be strong as auto lending and as Kathy mentioned a little bit the challenge on the loan lending as well behind this great spreads are challenged but given our cost of funds we are still very profitable but not as profitable as they were a year ago.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Miller of FBR.
On the mortgage banking side we know we had the new disclosures in the CFEP trade but it looks like your mortgage banking was in line with what we expected.
Can you talk about how you managed to do the trade? It looks like it wasn't that big of a deal for you guys? Yes Paul.
So we had a significant team of folks who are focused it is growing effort and we were able to automate much of the process we had about 40 major conversion to do that last weekend in fact so it was a little bit of a backlog that occurred because just natural process of the new disclosures new requirements costs more time but it wasnt usually impactful and as you said our results were pretty much in line with what we expected we might have a little bit of a pickup in the first quarter from that lag but we are principally automated in that and very good shape.
And then on the other side because you do have a pretty good pulse on the consumers out there do you see a big pickup in purchases? We had a very strong purchase market probably the strongest we've had in seven years in 2015.
Do you see that continue in 2016? So the year started as you know all about that so the year started in about 50-50 purchase versus refinance ended the year about two thirds one third and sort of the normal environment is 75-25 and that's what we expect as to go into 2016 about 75% of the volume being new money and 25% refinancings.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache of Nomura.
On your Fidelity co-brand win it seems like that's a product that's going to give you exposure to national spend from a fairly affluent customer base.
Should we conclude that you guys are seeking to become more of a national player in card? It certainly seems like you're expanding beyond -- well beyond your footprint? While we already are a national player in card so this was just adding in that what were seeking is always a good portfolio with good customers and this is a great example it is a high quality portfolio it offers us a great opportunity for growth and our customers service levels with this portfolio I think is what's going to make the difference so it's a continuation now were doing that will be also the same with the Auto Club portfolio.
So as Richard mentioned I think those are focus areas for us have been and will continue to be.
Hey Bill it's Richard.
I dont know how long you have followed us but many-many years ago one of our biggest moment in time was when we had lost the WorldPerks card from Northwest airlines and it went to American Express were in Delta by Northwest and we came up with the FlexPerks card which I am going to say this now when I retire would be one of the top three things I think we ever did really-really well here and is very national.
In fact when I talk to you guys if auto were to go down to $10 to $15 and would shut at the thought but if I had to talk to you about where the tangent risk would be we would be talking about the unemployment issues in those areas affected mostly by oil and the energy and our very own customers you may be surprised have a lot of people in parts that we dont have branches that have that credit card and like it a lot so it will be our own victim of success here but it's been quite national for five-six years and Andy is right we just want to be more perceived at that and we are not going to hesitate to take national forward growth just like we worked commercial real estate or wholesale banking if we want book for branches to be considered a national player and everything else.
If I could ask one more on a different topic there are some banks who many would put into the quality bucket who have significant excess liquidity parked at the Fed.
And there are others that use their excess liquidity to restructure the right-hand side of their balance sheets and therefore don't have that liquidity available today.
Obviously everyone regards you guys as being in that kind of high-quality camp but you don't appear to have as much excess liquidity that you're holding at the Fed.
Can you remind us of why that is? Yes.
We look at our liquidity as you know we have got 9.1% on our common equity tier one ratio that's about 110 basis points above our target of 8%.
And if you think about it were holding that excess rate between our target and where were actually performing because we havent been able to really reinvest or grow our loan balances as much as we would want so if we can get back into that 6% plus the balance sheet growth and so forth I think that you will see our capital to be right in line with kind of our real target.
And it is exactly right Kathy and I would add actually the one of the reasons we dont access liquidity on the balance sheet is because we were building our securities portfolio to adjust the LCR exactly the right time at the time the deposits were growing faster than loans and we used the excess to build securities so we are very balanced and we sit in that situation today so we are not lying at the Fed in an any material way you are right.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo of CLSA.
Well I'll repeat the same question as in the past Richard Davis versus the 10-year.
And the 10-year has been winning recently and here you are talking about faster loan growth which seems to be that you should be winning over the 10-year as far as what the 10-year is saying about growth.
On the other hand you are seeing what's going on in the market.
So my question is is the economy getting better or worse? What's your conviction level and confidence? And also as the capital markets at least in certain areas of the capital markets liquidity is less plentiful.
Is that an opportunity for you to step in and lend even more? Because you said the expansion in loan growth is on the consumer side and on the wholesale side it's the same.
But is this an opportunity for you to step in and borrow where some of the nonbanks might be retreating -- I'm sorry a chance for you to lend more where some of the nonbanks are retreating? Let's start first on just general lending appetite as a junior lender years ago there's still a steady state paradigm that you only make along based on abilities stability and willingness and the willingness is a low part people are able to take loans they're more stable than they had been and other than 8 years but they're just not willing so we can't create willing and we're not going to create willing and those are the most willing are the ones that are too eager and we don't want them so that's impart why you're going to see our loan growth I think be steady but not robust because we're going to reflect whatever the economy sets I also do think our market share has grown a lot and you've all the data to prove it.
So we're getting first look from a lot of customers that maybe in a decade before didnt think of us as much.
On the capital market side I think you'll also find answers yes we can step in and now be a lender of support for those who have the other alternatives and want to use it in more traditional balance sheet approach to growing their business and as I've said earlier we're no longer auditioning We're well ensconced now one of the top two or three banks in most large companies portfolio or the place they would have called for the opportunity and that comes from our debt ratings Mike.
I mean if you're a C suite person at a fortune anything or one of the largest private companies you really do value our ratings and you value the top notch level that we have and that means more to you than sometimes pricing which we also offer.
So I think in many cased we'll get more than our fare share of the capital markets where there's an interest in using that as an alternative to traditional financing and we set ourselves up perfectly to be early call and a chance to deliver and you might add to any of those since you run them.
I think that's right and I think the point that you made which is the market share point of the equation and I saw that growth perhaps is a little higher than what the average and most of that's coming from taking market share and that's certainly driving the wholesale side of the equation and it comes back to that ratings discussion that you discussed.
On that last point as you see private equity firms back away from some energy companies and you see some loan funds that have gotten burnt back away is that an opportunity for you to step in and lend more to say oil and gas companies? And I'm sorry I got on the call a couple minutes late.
Did you indicate what are you reserves against oil and gas loans? Yes I will jump in first of all nothing you said changes our appetite for risk we're not going to change it no matter how attractive things look and you targeted that part earlier.
As Bill talked earlier our energy portfolio is only 1.2% of the company we've added reserves to at this particular quarter we're at 5.4% reserves against the energy portfolio for our company which I think will prevail to be a reasonable place at this point in time with oil at $29 $30 I also said we've plenty of room and appetite and willingness to move those new reserves higher up if we need to and we're watching as we stress test the heck out of those things.
But as it relates to taking alternatives we want to be a capital markets alternative to more traditional lending but having to do with the risk profile that's unique and different than it is today it doesnt matter what it is we're not going to do it.
Our next question comes from the line of Vivek Juneja of JP Morgan.
A couple of questions just trying to get a sense of what you are seeing in the marketplace C&amp;I loans your yields were flat LIBOR was up through the quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about -- we're not seeing any impact of that -- why? And then yields are fairly low at 286 or something like that I believe so -- or no 268 actually? This is Andy so the corporate spreads are a function of two things one is where our growth is coming is more from the high quality side of the portfolio so a little bit less on the highly levered things like that that are falling off and some of the leasing portfolio and we're seeing high quality corporate growth which is a little thinner strategy all right.
The second is some of the growth that you're seeing is also short term in terms of the tenure which is causing -- it is a little bit of a thinner spread perhaps our linkage to a bond deal that's short term in nature related to an M&amp;A transaction so it is a little thinner again and what is typically on the books but again high quality still profitable but just a little different mix.
Secondly on the NIM side going back to the comments you and Kathy and the others made you've got a very healthy amount of noninterest deposits even though I know it's only 25 basis points.
I'm presuming -- are you firstly are you passing -- have you begun passing anything on at all to any of your customers? And secondly given that shouldn't we -- what's offsetting the NIM benefit from all of your low cost deposit base? Yes.
So at this point we are passing we're seeing some interest rate increases particularly around our wholesale side.
We havent seen a whole lot of movement right now on the consumer side and I think thats pretty true across the industry.
So that is as we look into quarter one that the fact that those re-pricings are starting but starting a little bit maybe lower than what we would have potentially modelled I think is basically benefiting us.
Our next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush of NAB Research.
Richard several quarters ago I asked you about projects that you might be investing in if you saw better revenue trends.
I think you said at that time you had a whole list of projects that you wanted to dive into when things looked a little better.
Are we at that point yet? Do you still have that list or have you started to implement some of these investments? I remember saying that and first of all what we didnt do is with our efficiency program we didnt stop as I said earlier our innovation and our investment in our technology.
So one thing is that I would have put back first was something I never took out.
The other one I think I mentioned was wealth management and the ultrahigh net worth and building more locations physical locations people to come in visit.
We currently have six Id love to move that to a much higher level.
It's going to be a long investment lead so Ive got to be thoughtful I do it if I could right now.
But the investment we did so long and until I see a more robust economy with interest rate increases I would be putting too much ahead of that and put ourselves on harms-way.
So those would be the two that I would mention I meant when I mentioned it to you and one of them were still doing the other one weve got on the place where theyre ready to roll in to.
Yes and could you just give us -- Andy this might be a question for you -- you mentioned the auto business.
What's your outlook for this year? You're coming off such a strong year.
Can you just sort of give us some color on that segment? I would expect the growth to be similar with what we saw off 2015 more focused on the lending side versus the leasing side and with it principally trying auto on the lending side.
So to stress this situation what might have been 110 120 basis points is maybe down to 100 or right around that area a lot of thats because of the aggressive nature of the manufacturers.
But I think on a growth prospect a very -- prospects for 16 are going to be very similar to what you saw in 15.
Are you picking up market share there? Is that part of your growth picture? Yes.
We are both with dealers as well as certain manufacturers that were trying to partner with in different ways a little bit on the lending side but also on the leasing side.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Mutascio of KBW.
A lot of my questions have been asked and answered.
A couple nitpicky things I guess.
Kathy can you refresh my memory who did you sell the HSA deposit portfolio to? That was Optum Bank.
I am sorry to who? Optum Bank.
And then and Richard I appreciate you calling out the gain in HSA and maybe the possible offset in terms of the expenses in the quarter to get more of a run rate.
And I hope you don't think I'm beating you up too much but should I really back out the expenses in the quarter tied to legal and compliance since first quarter your level expense is supposed to be similar to the reported level in fourth quarter? There is going to be a lot of moving parts of this and were very early in the quarter.
But I think that if you go with the guidance of just relatively stable because I think you will -- thats what were thinking of as we look out into the first quarter.
I am going to give you something you dont know which is why you called.
This year were going to look back on 2015 and were not going to payout 100% of our bonus pool.
This is my 10th year as CEO and thatd the first year we didnt and I am okay with that because we live and die by the sword and our guys are amazingly competent and capable.
And when we have great years we pay them out handsomely over 100% of target and when we dont we dont.
And so what that means to you is the accrual goes back to 100% in first quarter because you expect to make your plan.
And so thats a fairly interesting delta I am not going to slide it for you exactly but that would be something that I would have told you more next quarter but I might as well change that because you are struggling to think it through why we would otherwise want to stay stable that is another fairly meaningful part of it.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom of Guggenheim.
Just one final question on expenses which has been discussed at great length but I just want to understand how -- what is actually funding these growth initiatives.
Is it strictly the benefit of the top-line growth that's occurring in some measure? Or is it coming from efficiency savings that continue to be gained in other places? Well in terms of you are speaking innovation particularly we just have that in the run rate for about seven or eight years its just something that would be easy to slowdown and thats the part of descending that we didnt.
I cant underestimate enough when you have a acquiring payments business not just in issuing you get to work with the merchant not the commercial customer the merchant the one who sells stuff and then you get to bring your consumers in and we pilot and test all kinds of relationships and partnerships and we learn best practices consumer preferences merchant progresses and some of the stuff never makes it to the street because its really a bad idea but it looked good.
So that we dont want to slowdown that's been in the run rate for Eric for as many years as I could remember so there is no new increased cost and as I said earlier things like our large brand reputation campaign we are going to launch this year will cost money we havent have the run rate so it is going to come impart from the efficiency program some we will give it back to the shareholders some we will keep for ourselves and investment in things people always wanted to do so that's kind of the way to think about it.
Okay.
And you've given I think very clear guidance about the first quarter but has anything that's occurred in terms of portfolio acquisitions or other kinds of dynamics further disrupt what would be the typical quarterly cadence in terms of expense seasonality? That is all.
You are right to ask that in fact I think in this quarter we are going to go back at our next opportunity to show and remind people how steady our fourth quarters are and how -- which quarter is strongest which one is weakest and how the linked quarters move and I am only saying that because it's a really it's so consistent you can set your watch by it and it is a probably a good way to go back and look.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin of Jefferies.
Credit quality for you guys has been good and you continue to expect that it's going to remain very good but the world is obviously starting to worry about bigger other things.
So you guys don't have to worry so much about energy but Rich I'm just wondering -- I don't know if Bill's there -- but back in all of your industries and your subgroups what are you starting to watch for? What if anything are you concerned could go the wrong way? We're certainly not seeing it in NPAs delinquencies et cetera across the Company.
So can you just tell us your underlying comfort in terms of how things are going and what you will be watchful of? I will have Bill answer that but I do want to call out what a good question that was because dealing with our Board of Directors we havent really focused on credit in many years and I'm putting it right back at the front runner because I want to start watching trends and we are going to watch competitors and were going to watch different buckets and tranches and we are going to learn a lot all of us by what's about to happen if we start learning about these small moves now dont look very big that they can be quite tell-tell of what is going to happen so you ask more questions like that because that's going I think give us a chance to I'll talk about risk profile and likely future losses but Bill why dont you answer the question and what's your -- more or so a word about after energy and precious metals.
Yes I mean really it is the impacted areas in the country that we would look most closely at so if you think about the Dakota there is not a lot of people or infrastructure out there other than what's in the oil and gas but if you get to a state like Texas and the Houston area where it is a fairly energy dependent economy so you really look at a kind of newly unemployed trend and that's a thing that's going to generate potential delinquencies in the consumer portfolios and then that just has a ripple effect in terms of lower demand for small business both etcetera so we would focus very closely on watching the economies around the kind of the energy belt areas in the United States we do have as Richard said earlier were national and for real state national and our own card so we have been watching carefully we have not seen any impact yet even though we would be seeing 50 000 oil workers have lost their jobs in the last year or so but it really has not shown up and I feel bad but those are the kinds of things that we want every day.
Okay and one follow-up just you guys talk a lot about the strength in the payments businesses and then we still have that offsetting potential benefit from the energy subsidy that's not quite coming through.
So in terms of just payments growth and underlying can you just talk about do you envision the energy subsidy starting to get spent? Or do you think that's just an ongoing drag in certain parts of the businesses and we're not quite seeing it offset to the positive in other? This is Andy so I wouldnt say that the energy subsidy is being spent into a large degree so we are seeing steady growth in our card growth as you saw is very good we had a very good Christmas season the holiday season if you compare our contrasted our master card numbers would show up from Black Friday through Christmas Eve would say of 7.9% growth that was just over 10% growth which is better than it was last year but it's not substantially better so we are good and steady but we are not seeing all the dollars saved on the energy side moving to spend on the consumer side.
Our next question comes from the line of Terry McEvoy of Stephens.
I was wondering if you could just talk about the headwinds to credit and debit card revenue in 2016 just from lower equipment sales that kind of were up in Q3.
You mentioned they were down a bit in Q4.
And then maybe just as a follow-on that same question on revenue given lower gas prices and what that does to the fleet vehicle card at Elavon? Right so actually the spend activity on merchant terminals peak in the third quarter came down about 1% or 2% in the fourth quarter and I would expect it to be fairly level going into 2016.
There is still a number of merchants who have been purchasing terminals that we would expect to steady state without occurring but the headwinds so to speak as you described it was about a 1.5% to 2% in the fourth quarter but I dont expect there is a lot of further headwind going into 2016.
And then just a quick question for Kathy the tax rates kind of jumped around.
Could you give us a little insight into full-year 2016 for the tax rate? Yes you're right the tax rate did rise in the fourth quarter and that was principally due to the fact that we had some mix change in our tax credit business so as I look out into 2016 I'd put that rate in the kind of in that 28% to 29% range and as I've said today we're probably right in the middle of that range.
This concludes our Q&amp;A portion for today's call.
I will now turn the call back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for listening to this review of our fourth quarter 2015 and full year 2015 results.
Please contact us if you have any follow-up questions.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.