Welcome to the USG Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Monica and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Brian Moore Senior Director Investor Relations.
Good morning.
And welcome to USG Corporation's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call and Live Webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to our Investor Information Section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management’s current views and assumptions about business markets and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of today's press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
With me today to discuss the results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf President and CEO; and Fareed Khan Executive Vice President Finance and Strategy.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Fareed will then review the financial results for the quarter and will provide context to help understand the main drivers for those results.
We will then open up the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
Also present for the question-and-answer session will be Rick Fleming Executive Vice President and CFO.
Jim? Thank you Brian.
Good morning.
And thank you for joining us.
I know most of you are regular participants on these calls but I'd like to extend a special welcome if this is your first time joining our call.
My management team and I really appreciate your interest in USG.
USG is a great enterprise and I am proud to be at the helm leading and representing our employees worldwide.
There's not a more dedicated and committed group of people anywhere.
The progress we are making in this environment is a direct result of the hard work of our team.
For our customers who are on the call I want to take my personal thank you to you and we look forward to continuing to support your business with the finest products and services in the industry.
We really appreciate all of our customers.
Business conditions like the ones facing the U.S.
housing and construction market really test a company and its people.
Not many enterprises particularly in manufacturing and distribution business with a large infrastructure can navigate conditions like we have.
But this is exactly what we are doing at USG.
With no help from demand we continue to march towards profitability.
We've been aggressive on cost reductions but we have not compromised the fundamentals that make USG what it is a leader in building products.
We have one of the best safety records in all of corporate America.
We produce the highest quality products in the industry and we continue to lead with innovation.
Our top line results were essentially flat with last year but we continue to make improvements to our bottom line.
Our business is performing better with our largest markets still declining.
But still we are not where we want to be.
We remain relentlessly focused on profitability and growing our business.
We refer to this operating environment as a self-help type of market.
Market demand in the U.S.
is not going to be much help in the short-term so any gains that we're seeing are driven by our people and our operations.
This is truly a three-yards-and-a-cloud-of-dust performance.
In this self-help market we've reduced the operating loss by 30% versus last year.
This is still a loss but still a few more yards in the right direction.
We are confident the actions we're taking during this downturn has strengthened our company making it more efficient to drive long-term success such as our customer satisfaction our operational excellence and the innovation that you're seeing in the market today.
Our products and services meet a basic need.
We provide shelter.
It's where people live work and play.
The long-term demographics that drive demand for our products are favorable and we remain optimistic about our growth opportunities.
Now I'd like to briefly review the first quarter and then I'm going to turn it over to Fareed Khan who's going to give you a little more detailed look at the business.
Overall market dynamics during the quarter were mixed.
U.S.
housing remains at historic lows with little improvement and a lot of headwinds.
Housing starts in the first two months of this year were weak and the recent increase in March is still off of very low numbers.
Projections for total starts are in the 590 000 to 770 000 range and our forecast is about in the middle of that.
R&amp;R trends have improved and demand in this segment continues to get traction.
Harvard Joint Center for Housing projects home remodeling to improve about 6% this year which equates to about 3% for our products.
USG is well-positioned with major home improvement retailers with our national footprint and innovative products like SHEETROCK Brand Ultralight Panels to capitalize on the recovery in this segment.
Commercial construction is still challenged.
But there are many -- there are some signs that we're at the bottom.
Vacancy rates in major cities have stabilized.
Architectural billings have increased since the January 2009 trough and McGraw-Hill is forecasting commercial contracts signed this year will increase about 8%.
So clearly our biggest challenge is the U.S.
market demand.
Most international markets that we compete in are showing recovery.
And we continue to focus our actions with our industry recognized brand technology and our partnerships.
Overall there's a fair amount of uncertainty regarding the timing and pace of the recovery in our key markets but we can see that our operating strategies continue to show positive results.
Now I'd like to touch on each of our key businesses starting with U.S.
Gypsum.
Wallboard volume went down compared to last year but the market last year was influenced by the stimulus credit for first time homebuyers.
As we now know that boost was temporary and then industry demand subsequently declined as 2010 unfolded.
Our wallboard shipments actually increased in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of last year which is the first time since the beginning of 2007.
The average wallboard price in the quarter was up compared to last year's first quarter and we did announce a March price increase that's got traction in the market.
As we continue to emphasize innovation we recently introduced another product in our lightweight product wallboard portfolio.
USG was the first to introduce a lightweight half-inch panel and now we're the first offer a 5/8 panel.
This introduction is significant because it brings our lightweight and sustainable product line to the commercial market where labor rates are much higher.
Still the lightest and just as important the strongest in the industry we're now providing the commercial contractor with a solution for improved profitability in this challenging market.
USG invented the lightweight panel category and we remain committed to be the leader with additional products to meet our customers need.
So stay tuned.
You'll see what we have coming.
Now I'd like to turn to our Distribution business L&amp;W Supply.
The L&amp;W team has realigned the organizational structure to improve results and position the business for growth.
These initiatives go far beyond closing and consolidating branches.
We have right sized the branch network but in addition we've now taken layers out of the organization and have centralized decision making.
At L&amp;W we have the three Ps at work purchasing pricing and people.
These are all handled now on a centralized basis.
It is a fundamental realignment that focuses on operational excellence at our branches and a coordinated sales organization focused on key customers.
Our goal at L&amp;W is to leverage our nationwide strength but do it with a local commitment.
What I like to say is getting L&amp;W better will make us bigger.
Next I’d like to acknowledge our Ceilings and international business unit.
The results during the quarter and really over the last year have been absolutely outstanding.
Worldwide Ceilings sales increased 7% and operating profit increased over 40%.
Virtually all product categories showed both top and bottom line improvement.
We've been able to say ahead inflationary trends with price improvement we've improved efficiencies at plants and service levels for our customers.
But most importantly in our Ceilings business we remain committed to profitable growth.
Our focus on architects emerging segments and our commitment to our dedicated distribution base have been key success factors in our Ceilings business.
I'm also very pleased with the performance of our international businesses.
Our business units in Mexico and Europe have increased sales and profit versus last year and we have improved results in our joint venture in China.
Part of our strategy is to continue to build on our international footprint by bringing innovative products and solutions to key markets and customers.
As markets develop particularly in the commercial industry the need for productivity enhancing products increases and our customers look to USG for those solutions.
One great example is the tallest building in the world the Burj Dubai Tower.
It was built by using USG SHEETROCK Brand Panels.
In summary the first quarter was largely what we anticipated.
Weak U.S.
demand but with improvements in our operating results largely attributable to the actions we've taken throughout the company to improve our operations to reduce our costs drive towards profitability and take care of our customers.
As we look forward the pace of the recovery remains uncertain but we are confident that our efforts to realign and focus our business will continue to contribute positively to our operating performance.
Long-term the demand fundamentals for our products remain positive.
We remain optimistic about our opportunity to grow and thrive as the market continues to recover.
Now what I'd like to do is turn it over to Fareed Khan and he's going to review the numbers in more detail with you.
Thanks Jim.
Good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining us today.
I'm going to dig a little deeper into some of the key numbers behind the operating results that Jim just outlined.
I'll touch on the P&amp;L and also provide some additional details on debt liquidity overhead interest expense capital spending and taxes.
The overall message today and what you'll see in the numbers is that our top line remains challenged by weak U.S.
housing and construction fundamentals but we continue to make tangible progress on profitability through our operating initiatives.
We remain focused on cost reduction maintaining financial flexibility and cash preservation in both our operations and financing activities.
For the first quarter ended March 31 2011 USG's consolidated net sales were $721 million.
This is a $5 million or 1% increase versus the same period last year.
Net sales were up about 3.5% from the fourth quarter 2010 which is more due to seasonality than any structural improvement in demand.
Consolidated gross profit margin was 5% for the quarter.
Total gross profit of $36 million was up $22 million from the same period last year.
SG&amp;A expenses totaled $85 million or about 11.8% of sales for the quarter.
Restructuring charges of $9 million for the quarter were down from $12 million last year.
These continue to be related to our cost reduction initiatives.
Our first quarter operating loss was $58 million compared to a loss of $82 million in last year's first quarter.
This is a $24 million reduction in operating loss resulting from margin improvement in our core businesses.
Our net loss for the quarter was $105 million down from $110 million a year ago.
Let me very quickly cover the drivers linking our operating loss to our net loss.
Two factors are important here.
First our interest expense for the quarter increased from $45 million a year ago to $52 million.
This is a consequence of the additional liquidity that we added to our balance sheet via the $350 million bond offering we concluded in the fourth quarter of 2010.
As you may recall the high yield bond market conditions were very favorable and we took the opportunity to significantly increase our financial flexibility by layering in addition liquidity.
Second we recorded an income tax benefit that was about $14 million below last year's first quarter.
Our tax benefit in the first quarter of 2011 was $3 million in contrast for the same period last year our income tax benefit was $17 million.
With average diluted common shares outstanding of roughly $103 million our net loss translates into $1.01 per share loss for the quarter down from $1.10 a year ago.
Jim discussed our key businesses and our operating focused areas.
Let me now very briefly touch on segment results.
The softness in the U.S.
market continued to impact North American Gypsum and L&amp;W results.
For both businesses net sale declined 2% year-on-year.
North American Gypsum net sales were $416 million for the quarter and L&amp;W Supply was $243 million.
Despite lower net sales both businesses reduced operating losses.
North American Gypsum losses fell by $6 million to a loss of $29 million.
L&amp;W losses were reduced to $17 million and have narrowed to $22 million for the quarter.
Our U.S.
Wallboard business a key driver of North American Gypsum results shipped 990 million feet in the quarter which was down from 1.15 billion feet over the same period a year ago.
Industry shipments declined about 230 million feet from last year's first quarter levels.
This was not unexpected as we had the impact of the homebuyer tax credit temporarily boosting shipments last year.
Industry shipments were up about 2.5% versus the fourth quarter 2010.
Not a large number but it is the first time in a while that we've seen sequential improvement in wallboard industry shipments.
As Jim mentioned our average wallboard price was just over $109 per thousand square feet for the first quarter.
This is up about 2% versus the same period last year but down sequentially by about $2.80 versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
Obviously the March 7 price increase had limited impact on our overall financial results for the quarter given the timing of the increase late in the period.
L&amp;W volumes year-on-year for the quarter were down 20%.
The revenue impact of this volume decline was partially offset by a 9% average increase in wallboard price over the same period.
Gypsum's margins was up 33% for the quarter versus 2010.
Over the same period sales from construction metal products and fuel [ph] products were up 10% and 8% respectively which helped offset volume declines in other product categories.
The aggressive restructuring underway at L&amp;W continues to have an impact on the bottom line and contributed about $10 million to the operating profit improvement.
As of March 31 L&amp;W operated 163 branches nationwide.
First quarter net sales from our Worldwide Ceiling business increased from $165 million in 2010 to $177 million.
The primary driver was higher volumes and higher selling prices in the United States but all of our international Ceilings business had both top line and bottom line growth.
Overall operating profit increased from $18 million a year ago to $26 million and was up $14 million from the fourth quarter.
As Jim mentioned every key product category had margin improvement over the period.
Let me briefly touch on [indiscernible] I mentioned in some more detail.
SG&amp;A expenses totaled $85 million for the quarter restructuring and impairment charges were $9 million.
During the quarter we continued to drive cost reduction initiatives $4 million in restructuring related to severance cost for workforce reductions across all of our businesses.
The remaining $5 million in restructuring related to various costs associated with the closing idling of our manufacturing mining [ph] and distribution network.
Salary freezes reductions in employee and retirement benefits and health care savings associated with our adoption of the employer group labor plan helped to offset inflationary pressures in retirement and long-term compensation plans.
We also continue to make targeted investments in long-term growth and productivity initiatives.
These include SHEETROCK Ultralight Panels and other key product introductions upgrades to our technology infrastructure and an enterprise-wide back office optimization project.
Financial flexibility is a key element of our strategy for the downturn and we're watching cash very closely.
We closed the first quarter in 2011 with cash cash equivalents and marketable securities of $769 million compared to $585 million this time last year.
As I mentioned our bond offering in the fourth quarter of 2010 was important in ensuring we have ample liquidity to navigate a protracted downturn but it has also increased our interest expense.
On an annual basis we expect our interest expense to be roughly $209 million on the income statement and about $199 million on a cash basis.
This is up roughly $30 million from 2010 levels.
We continue to manage capital expenditures very closely.
Total CapEx in 2010 for the full year was under $40 million.
We're planning to spend approximately $50 million for 2011.
Our prior investments and the benefits of a modern optimized manufacturing network allow us to maintain low levels of CapEx without impacting operations.
Total debt now stands at $2.3 billion.
We've been careful to structure the balance sheet to push out maturities eliminate covenants and build in convertible or callable features.
We have $300 million of debt maturing in August 2014.
Additionally $750 million or about a third of our total debt is either callable or convertible.
Cash usages in the quarter include $44 million for interest expense $18 million related to restructuring activities and $13 million for capital expenditures.
The remaining cash drain was from operating activities.
Due to the seasonality of our business we build working capital during the first quarter.
This amounted to a $73 million use of cash over the period.
While working capital draws cash in the first quarter it typically contributes during the remaining three quarters with the largest contribution in the fourth quarter as inventories are drawn down for the winter months.
Total liquidity was $958 million at the end of the first quarter.
Let me now close with the following remarks.
Clearly we got no help from macroeconomic drivers.
Consolidated sales were essentially flat versus last year and volumes in our U.S.
Gypsum and distribution businesses were down.
Our margin initiatives both on the price side and the cost side drove solid bottom line profit improvement year-on-year in each of our key businesses.
We remain very committed to margin improvement and will continue to optimize our operations.
Our investing activities are very focused on strategic priorities.
Key differentiating products like Ultralight panels our technology and service infrastructure and on variable-lizing [ph] our cost structure.
With that let me turn it back over to Brian Moore.
Brian? Thank you Fareed.
We are now going to open up the call for questions.
We want to ensure that there's plenty of opportunity to ask questions so callers are asked to please limit themselves to one question and one follow- up.
Operator please open up the phone lines for participants to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Hi this is actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
For the Wallboard business I just wanted to know what your capacity utilization was for the quarter versus the industry’s? And also regarding the price hike for March 7.
Is that just a deferral of the February 7? Price increase yes.
We move from February to March on our price increase.
And capacity utilization is running about 45%.
For the company? Yes.
And what was the -- do you know what the industry was? No.
We don't have the industry numbers right now.
Probably close to that zip code.
And regarding Ceilings.
Can you talk a little bit about what drilled the strength? Excuse me.
I appreciate your question on Ceilings but we're trying to keep this to one question.
I'll answer the ceilings question and just for the rest of the callers we just want to make sure we have enough time.
So not to interrupt you but please continue on Ceiling.
Okay I just wanted to know what really drove the strength in Ceilings during the quarter in terms of margin performance and if you think that performance is sustainable going forward.
Well the margin performance on Ceilings has been -- there's been a consistent trend really the last 18 months and it's been a focus on staying ahead of inflation particularly on grid and now on some of the raw materials that we're seeing on ceiling tile getting price improvement in the market.
It's also focusing on having a very efficient distribution network.
And also we've looked at some of the emerging channels.
For example commercial repair and remodel we have focused on that over the last couple of years.
So it's really been two or three initiatives.
It's really -- we have focused on profitable growth versus -- really focused on market share.
And we think we're in a really good zone with our Ceilings business.
We're very as I said we're very excited about it and it's a very big bright spot.
One of the other areas on Ceilings is we have a business unit that is accountable and focused on this every day.
And our folks live and breathe ceilings -- that are in this unit.
So great job by our folks and we're going to continue to trend we hope.
Great thank you.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois of Longbow Research.
Hi thank you.
Just have a question on volumes and your expectations for 2011.
If I remember correctly coming out of the fourth quarter you mentioned that you were expecting very low single-digit volume improvement in wallboard shipments in 2011.
I was just wondering after the first quarter if you're view has changed at all.
If there's any potential downside risk to it.
Well as we said the shape of this -- there is some uncertainty but we still believe there's some segments that are showing some glimmer and that's in the Repair and Remodel segment.
We think that R&amp;R growth is still at [indiscernible] percent.
We're comfortable with that.
Non-res [non-residential] is -- we have around an 8% number but you have to remember that's a lag number.
So a lot of that will be going into 2011 -- or excuse me 2012.
So last year the industry shipped just north of $17 billion.
And our feeling right now for the first quarter is we're going to see some slight improvements but the industry is still fairly soft.
Okay thank you very much.
The next question comes from Bob Wetenhall of RBC Capital.
LLC</strong> Hi good morning.
I just had some questions.
It looks like you guys did a very good job of taking a lot of cost out to drive margin in L&amp;W on a declining sales base.
And I was hoping if you could provide or share with us if -- now that you're at 163 depots is that number going lower? And do you think the size of the improvement is sustainable or should we expect more improvement as we move through the year? Well that's a great question and as I said in my prepared comments initially we were taking branches out.
And we're -- and the reason I use the term branches is we're very focused on our operations and we separated our organization focused on operations.
And then also focused on sales.
So our 163 branches we feel is a great number at this point.
There's a tremendous amount of leverage now at L&amp;W with some additional volume that we hope that the demand provides in the future.
But the cost taken out of L&amp;W I think a great comparison would be the operating results this quarter.
If you compare that to the second quarter of last year.
Operating loss was $22 million in the second quarter of last year.
$22 million this year and there was 90 million feet less volume that ran through the system and $40 million.
So you can see taking the cost out has tremendous leverage for L&amp;W.
We think we're optimized right now with the amount of locations.
We haven't left any strategic markets.
And as I said earlier this is all about making L&amp;W better which we think we'll grow the business.
It's focusing on our strategic sourcing it's focusing on strategic customers and it's really optimizing our centers.
So we will always look at ways where we can take cost out but taking a lot of branches out we don't think that's part of the plan at this point.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from Rodny Nacier of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi.
Hello everyone.
On the wallboard side can you comment or expand on monthly pricing trends that you guys saw throughout the quarter? We only talk about quarterly numbers.
So as I said our March price increase was effective during the month so you will see that in the second quarter numbers.
So if you look at -- we finished the quarter north of $109.
And that was as Fareed said in his comments about $2 less than the fourth quarter.
But we don't report on monthly trends.
Okay thank you.
And could you break out the -- for wallboard the split of residential repair remodel new res and our new non-residential construction? You're getting a bonus question you know that.
Appreciate it.
Okay all right.
If you look at the footage if you look at repair and remodel and residential is about 85% of the wallboard demand.
So that's about -- repair and remodel is about 55%.
Non-res is less than 10%.
So the big driver on wallboard demand is repair and remodel and that's broken down half-and-half commercial and residential.
Okay and that was for 1Q right? Yes.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson of Thompson Research.
LLC.</strong> Hi thanks for taking my questions today.
The inventory was higher than expectations in light of a softer top line.
What's driving this increase and why the inventory build in the quarter? Kath it's Fareed.
That's a very typical seasonal pattern.
So we ended last year with fairly thin inventories across the network both in building systems and L&amp;W.
And so it's just a typical build as we came into the season.
So I'd say there's really nothing unusual about it from an operations standpoint.
LLC.</strong> So nothing really related for instance to Ultralight and trying to meet demand for big box with that? No and I mean that's a factor but it's not going to contribute overall.
As I mentioned there's about a $73 million use of cash for the quarter.
As we go through the year we'll see that inventory come down and contribute back from a cash standpoint.
LLC.</strong> And my second question is it appears that a decent portion of the March price increase has flowed through and it's a safe assumption that we should at least see some sequential improvement in pricing going into Q2.
Correct? Kathryn this is Jim.
We don't give any projections on price.
LLC.</strong> Are you hearing anything different in the market than what we are in terms of the price acceptance in March? The March price increase has gotten tractions.
Yes it's absolutely gotten traction.
LLC.</strong> Okay great.
Thank you so much.
Our next question comes from Joshua Pollard of Goldman Sachs.
First question and I guess it is the last.
What percent of your deliveries in the Gypsum is on spot versus contract? I guess what I'm ultimately trying on [ph] and I think what your investors would be interested in is if you guys really start to continue with your traction on pricing in March and potentially get some more price increases.
How much of that is actually going to drop to the average realized price that we see versus how much you guys have sort of already tied up in larger projects like potentially what you guys did in Dubai potential with Freedom Tower here in New York? Just interested in the spot versus contracts out of your business? Thanks.
Sure.
That's a great question and there's always job protected prices.
I think the bad news to that is there's not a lot of big large jobs like you just indicated where you need that type of job projection.
But we do track that.
We don't disclose that.
But it is a smaller percentage of our overall invoice price.
So we have centralized monitoring of job quotes we make sure that they are legitimate jobs.
For the footage we track them.
And we typically put escalators depending on the length of the job on those job quotes as we look at our pricing.
So it is a balance but it is a -- again we don't disclose that but there are job quotes and as we like to call it invoice pricing which is the larger percentage.
What do you mean by invoice pricing? I guess as a follow-up.
Every day pricing.
As your example job price for the Freedom Tower would have a certain price with escalators.
Everyday pricing would be something we're shipping to our dealers for their warehouse and for their everyday jobs and it's what the market price is at that point.
So is it fair to say that that overall contract that are job protected business is call it less than 20% of your business when you say it's just a small percentage? We don't disclose that.
But it is a smaller percentage than our everyday price.
We just can't disclose that.
Thank you.
Thanks guys.
Next question comes from Trey Grooms of Stephens.
Yes this is actually P.J.
Dickey in for Trey.
Jim just looking at the wallboard demand.
Looks like your volumes were down about a little over 13.5% year-over-year during the quarter and I believe the industry was somewhere around negative 7% for the same period.
So it seems there's a little bit of market share lost there.
Can you just kind of explain kind of what's going on there? Are you guys be more selective with customers or -- just some color there would be helpful? Thanks.
Sure thank you.
Really it's in three areas I would say.
First as we talked and free touched on some of the L&amp;W price improvement we've taken a very disciplined approach to get price improvement both from manufacturing and distribution.
So when L&amp;W raises prices -- I've said in previous calls that at L&amp;W we're willing to park trucks.
And this is about our road to profitability and really focused on partnering with the right customers in the market.
So when L&amp;W raises prices and we will pass on some jobs or pass on market share that equates back to the Gypsum business.
So that's the first thing.
The second area on that is shedding customers that have a high credit risk.
We're in a very tough market.
There's a lot of customers under pressure from a credit standpoint and we take a very disciplined a very conservative approach on our credit exposure.
So that's the second area.
And the third area is we look at unprofitable areas.
And we are going to take a very diligent approach that we aren't going to ship into areas that don't make sense from a profitability standpoint.
So it's really three areas it's very strategic.
As we've talked over the last really 18 months our strategy has been balancing price and volume.
And really focused on profitability.
So raising prices on L&amp;W shedding customers with a high credit risk and looking at unprofitable areas are really kind of the 3 drivers of what you can see on our volume.
Great thanks.
I'll get back in queue.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill of Zelman &amp; Associates.
Good morning thank you.
I was hoping you guys could elaborate a little bit within the Ceilings on the top line.
Can you break apart what you're seeing on the volume side? From price both in terms of grid and tile? Just to help us understand kind of the trends there? If you look at the volume really in each product category.
If you look at tile broken out and our high-performance tiles our volumes are very very solid.
Double-digit increases.
And really each product line is up.
I mean there's not a one product line that really jumps out that's exponentially higher.
We're very pleased with the unit growth.
Now it's not huge but we have unit growth.
As you see we have top line revenue growth and margins.
So it's a very disciplined approach.
This is not a big market share grab.
Our strategy is profitable growth and we feel that our strategy focus on some of the segments out there for example commercial Repair and Remodel with some of the things we're doing in the field has really helped that.
So if you uncouple each area it's just not on price improvement.
We are getting some nice unit growth by each product category and none's really jumping out ahead of the other.
Just to be clear.
If we separate grid and tile grid and tile both would be I'd say low-single digits in volume for the quarter and the balance would be price? Are we disclosing our volume there? Our unit volume? I don't believe we are.
We haven't disclosed in the past.
But grid was particularly strong in the quarter.
Yes.
You're in the zip code but we aren't going to disclose that.
But I would just say from a standpoint we are seeing some slight volume increases along with price improvement and top line revenue.
Am I getting in trouble for this? But can you just talk about corporate expense? Both in the quarter? The increase that we saw? And then expectations for the year? Is this your second question or follow-up to your first because that's a bit … It's completely related to my first.
It's a second...
Okay all right.
So we'll have Fareed handle that one.
Okay.
Yes you did pick up on the increase in corporate cost.
There's a couple of drivers in there.
Let me start by saying that our actual people costs were down year-on-year through I think on reductions and other cost initiatives that we have.
We did invest in two areas.
One related to our technology infrastructure tied to an ERP upgrade.
A routine necessary for us to continue to optimize our network.
And the second is a corporate-wide initiative that we have around reengineering our back-office that cuts across all of our business units using an outsourcing model.
There's some other onetime charges in there around environmental.
And the last area was some long-term incentive charges are typically front-end loaded into the first quarter.
So it looks higher than it was in increase.
Predominantly onetime charges that offset for the quarter anyway the work we've been doing on just general cost reductions.
So the balance of the year should look more like what we have been running at prior to this quarter then? We will see higher corporate expenses in the first quarter and then they taper off if you look back at last year.
And I think we'll expect the same thing.
Okay thanks again guys.
Our next question comes from Ivan Marcuse of Northcoast Research.
Hey guys.
Thank you for taking my question.
My first -- my question really is why were revenues -- if revenues were flat in distribution from fourth quarter to first quarter why did operating profit drop $10 million? And what sort of drove that and how should I think about that going forward? Sure that's -- if you look at the fourth quarter we had some onetime benefits in the fourth quarter with some settlements we got on some litigation as well as the Chinese wallboard.
So if you look at those there is about $10 million that where onetime benefits in the fourth quarter.
So that basically takes it to -- I think we were at a negative $12 million in the fourth.
So that puts it basically flat sequentially.
I think the better comparison as I said earlier was the first quarter of this year compared to last year's second quarter which both quarters were a negative $22 million and last year we had an additional $40 million of revenue flowing through there.
So kind of -- it shows what the cost reductions and the margin improvement has done for L&amp;W.
So L&amp;W is making progress.
We aren't where we want to be but I think the organization is very focused.
We've taken a lot of the decisions that typically have been in the field.
We centralized those and can control those particularly on pricing here corporately.
And we've taken a lot of costs out at the center locations in addition to the branches.
So our strategy with L&amp;W as we said last quarter was back to black.
That's important to get L&amp;W profitable and we hope to see some improvement as the year unfolds.
Great.
And then my second question is in the Ceilings business.
You're going through a more seasonally stronger second and third quarter.
Would you expect margins to continue their upward trend? Or do you have higher input cost of raw materials flowing through the P&amp;L? Be a little bit of an impact going second third? Thank you for taking my questions.
Well we don't give projections on future earnings but we're very focused on margin improvement in Ceilings.
It's profitable growth.
I would be very disappointed if we did not continue the trend that we're seeing in our Ceilings business.
And we're going to continue to stay ahead of inflation particularly on steel.
As everyone knows that's a very volatile commodity there.
We have a great strategic sourcing group that stays ahead of steel cost so we can stay ahead of that in the field.
And we're going to continue with our strategy that we've had the last three years is profitable growth.
Our next question comes from Jim Barrett of CL King &amp; Associates.
Inc</strong> Good morning everyone.
Jim one question one follow-up.
What level of annualized shipments at U.S.
Gypsum at this point given your cost structure and assuming some price improvement from the March price increase would get that business back to breakeven in your view? Well Jim that's something we focus on every day and actually it's getting past breakeven.
It's getting profitable and as we've said before we don't give projections.
We have lowered our breakeven tremendously with our $600 million of cost coming out.
It's two areas we need demand and we need spread improvement.
And when those two things happen we're going to get to break even but unfortunately I can't give you a projection today.
Inc</strong> And then the related question.
You're finally getting traction with the March increase.
Do you sense that the industry is getting more disciplined in terms of pricing the product at this point? Well I don't want to comment on the industry.
I know we're very disciplined and one of the things that we have changed in the last year is we've been very disciplined on the manufacturing side.
But what the changes we've made at L&amp;W and the new pricing policies we put there we are extremely disciplined on the L&amp;W side.
And I think that's really important having USG and L&amp;W very disciplined in pricing.
And as you'll see as Fareed commented on L&amp;W L&amp;W has got price improvement in a very soft market with that type of discipline.
Inc</strong> Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Dan Oppenheim of Crédit Suisse.
Thanks very much.
In regard to the price increase and the traction that you got in March what would you say in terms of the volume there? Do you see any pre-buying taking place there? Any additional volumes that you saw either in call it early March during that time? That's always a good indication of are your customers believing the price is up.
And seeing some pre-buying is always a good sign.
Our customers are very focused on their working capital so they really really watch that.
So we did see some signs of that and that was more in a regional basis.
Okay.
And the second in terms of the lightweight product.
Is there any additional marketing expense going into that as we think about margins? Where would you saw margins are on that? And what's sort of market is going in that now? And sort of share of the business that you seen now versus where it should be? See this is a great second question.
Because I am so glad you’re asking about Ultralight because this is the absolute most exciting thing I know our company has done and the industry is extremely excited about this.
Just as a proof point on Ultralight if you went back a year ago there were less than 60 locations in the United States that carried Ultralight.
Now we have over 1 000 outlets.
1 000 outlets that are carrying Ultralight and most of these customers that are carrying Ultralight are getting a premium to their customers.
So you think about how soft this market is that our customers -- we're providing them some additional profit so they can grow their businesses.
So we've just introduced our 5/8 product the first in the industry.
This is a product that will be very successful in commercial construction because of higher labor rates.
For example commercial drywall hangers in the city of Chicago make up to around $75 an hour fully loading in the benefits.
So if you think about Ultralight that's lighter that's stronger that's good for the environment that it will provide better productivity for commercial contractors it will make them more profitable but be able to get more USG jobs.
So we're very excited about this.
We're going to continue to develop new products and as I said in my prepared comments stay tuned because we're working really hard from an R&amp;D standpoint to come up with some additional products for our customers.
In terms of the marketing expenses we do have a marketing campaign to support Ultralight but it's redeploying expenses it's not addition to.
This is our #1 focus in the Corporation from an R&amp;D manufacturing and marketing standpoint.
So we didn't have the luxury to add cost for Ultralight we just got to make some tough choices and this is our #1 priority.
So we redeployed our cost and we're going to continue to support it with marketing but more importantly is get it in the hands of our customers so they can grow their business.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Seth Yeager of Jeffries.
Hey guys.
One quick question.
From the $25 million or so in cash savings from the restructuring actions in the fourth quarter.
Did any of that flow through in the first quarter? And based on your modest volume improvement outlook.
How should we think about that through the balance of the year? Yes.
It flowed through the first quarter.
We saw about $3 million in SG&amp;A reductions.
Those were offset by onetime charges.
We've also reduced some of our long-term legacy cost going to a group labor plan.
We've reduced our matches on 401(k) and other areas.
So it does flow through there's just a lot of kind of puts and takes around the first quarter results as I mentioned earlier.
So we're definitely seeing the cost reductions flow through.
It's something we track very closely through each of the initiatives that we have.
And for the balance of the year is there any -- is that going to be lumpy or is it fair to just kind of run it in a 1 year fashion? You have to kind of make your own assumptions in the model.
I mean it should flow through throughout the year.
But there are different elements in there.
And we also -- we continue to look at every opportunity to reduce cost as move forward.
You've seen in prior years sometimes multiple initiatives flowing in throughout the year.
All right great.
Thanks a lot.
If you want to talk more about your model we could do it off-line a little bit more if you want.
Thanks appreciate it.
The next question comes from Phil Bobacelli from Deutsche Bank.
Hi there this is Sean Wandrack sitting in for Phil.
Do you guys have a free cash flow target? Or in other words a cash target for the end of 2011? Thank you.
We do.
I mentioned cash is a pretty important to us.
Our cash interest expense as I mentioned is about $199 million.
We've got -- we're targeting about $50 million in CapEx.
Leave the EBITDA assumptions up to you guys in your models.
But we look -- we manage those two very closely.
We're also looking at working capital very closely as well and I mentioned there's some seasonal impacts that you have to factor it in.
We do anticipate a cash burn this year that's in the plan and that's part of the reason we're very focused on liquidity.
So you can kind of work that out on your own assumptions around EBITDA but we would anticipate a cash burn.
How about in terms of cash taxes for the year? So we have some credits coming in the first quarter which offset our taxes.
I would suggest around $10 million to $15 million for the year.
We have a cash loss carryforward that applies to a lot of our federal taxes but we do have some state taxes in some profitable international subsidies.
So $10 million to $15 million if that's your range you'd be fine.
Okay thank you.
And do you think that working capital builds in Q1 will be able to cover most of the working capital for the year? That's typically been the pattern in prior year's.
Where it's a lift in the first quarter and then we work that down and in the fourth quarter it contributes.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
The next question is a follow-up question from Bob Wetenhall of RBC Capital.
LLC</strong> Hey thanks for taking a final question.
Just wanted to ask Jim.
What are you most excited about? In terms of your three segments? Which you think is the most margin upside? Given the changes you're making to the business model.
Well I think I'm excited about all of them quite frankly.
We've taken a lot of costs out.
There's a tremendous amount of leverage in the business.
In past calls we've talked about the leverage in the Manufacturing business.
And that incremental dollar coming through of what that does to margin but there is a tremendous amount of leverage in L&amp;W.
And I don't think we really highlighted that to our analyst and investment community.
We're going to continue to do that in discussions.
But I think with the reorganization of L&amp;W we're very focused operationally.
From a sales standpoint we decoupled that.
I'm really excited about going forward with L&amp;W.
With our plant network on the manufacturing side we're running our network.
We have some very -- our very low cost plants great facilities great people.
So there's tremendous amount of leverage there.
I touched on the Ceilings business.
We're going to continue to march on to the Ceilings business.
And then along with that we have some very interesting strategic opportunities outside of the United States.
We have a very robust international team.
We've put some great leaders leading our international business.
And we want to continue to diversify our portfolio as we go forward.
So actually I'm excited about all of these and there's great opportunities.
The one thing we need is a little bit of demand help here and what we need you to do is go out and buy a house or remodel your house and go in to your local outlet and go buy some Ultralight because we think you'd be really happy with that.
So you can help us get there.
LLC</strong> All right guys thanks a lot.
Our last question comes from Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
First a competitor had indicated that they seem to have gone about $8 to $10 from the March price increase.
Would that be a fairly accurate assessment of where you are? Or can there be quite significant differences from one competitor to the other? I don't comment on competitive pricing as I've said before we got some pricing in our March increase some traction.
We feel very comfortable and we're getting some price improvement and will be able to report that next quarter.
And you'll be able to see how we did.
Inc.</strong> And historically would you say there tends to be fairly similar movements from competitor to competitor? Or can it because of regional differences what have you can there be quite wide spreads? I feel more comfortable talking about what we do with our pricing.
So I can talk about our regional trends but not our competition.
Inc.</strong> And then in terms of freight cost.
Obviously we've seen diesel go up some.
How does that seep through in to your cost structure? What type of metric should we be thinking about to try and assess the impact? Well diesel -- actually anything fossil fuel is going to have some inflation particularly on plastic pails in our joint treatment business.
We've had some joint treatment price increases and the market's staying ahead of that.
Diesel fuel has an impact on our customers on our distribution.
So it's not a huge impact that we see on freight.
A lot of -- our freight on the wallboard side our customers pay for the freight it's after deducting freight.
So it's part of -- we see more the fossil fuel inflation in some of our other products latexes plastic pails and some of our raw materials that we're going to continue to stay ahead of.
One wonderful thing we have as a corporation we have a world-class strategic sourcing group that stays on top of any type of commodity changes be at diesel fuel waste paper natural gas.
And we think we do a pretty darn good job staying ahead of inflation and making sure it doesn't impact margins.
So not a huge impact on diesel on the wallboard side more on -- a little bit on pails we have price increases saying ahead of that.
And on our L&amp;W we're getting price improvements there.
So I don't think it's anything significant.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Thank you.
This concludes our questions.
I will now turn it back over to Brian Moore for closing remarks.
Thank you and thank you for all your questions.
Jim I believe you have some concluding comments? Yes thank you.
And I really appreciate all the questions and I'm glad everyone listened to us about the one question.
I'm glad everyone followed through with that.
But I do all kidding aside appreciate your interest in our company and as we said we've been operating in a very weak market for several years but the foundation of this company that's almost 110 years old is very very strong.
And we're committed that the actions we've taken have strengthened this foundation.
We have the industry-leading brands.
We have the strongest and I believe the best customer network not only in the United States but outside of the United States.
And I think what you're seeing is we have an unrivaled market coverage.
We're very well-positioned for the recovery.
We serve all the segments.
And with our broad footprint that we have in manufacturing and distribution we're positioned regardless of where the rebound is particular geographies we are there to capture that rebound.
As I mentioned a few minutes ago our supply chain is extremely efficient it's very unique compared to our competition and what it does it provides tremendous tremendous flexibility in this evolving market.
In addition to our national footprint I'm very very proud and I think you're starting to see the results of our product innovation which has provided a much-needed solution for our customers.
Our customers have been asking us give us the solution to get through this tough market.
Our lightweight product platform gives our customers the answer for improving their business through increased productivity and performance and these are also with products that have a high sustainability area.
Outside the United States our business has excelled.
I'm very proud of the efforts with our International business and it really provides a window for our company for growth and as I said earlier for diversification.
Our reputation for quality innovation will continue to facilitate growth opportunities beyond North America.
And as I said earlier USG provides shelter.
We provide a basic need that everyone needs.
And we really believe the opportunities over the long-term will be significant both in the United States and international and we are positioned to profitably grow this fine company.
I really appreciate your interest and more importantly we all appreciate your support of USG.
And thank you so much.
That concludes our call.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Friday April 29th.
Information is available on our website www.usg.com.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the USG Corporation's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Brian Moore.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's second quarter 2011 earnings conference call and live webcast.
We will be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Relations Section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management’s current views and assumptions about business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to another -- a number of factors including those listed at the end of today's press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
With me today to discuss our results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf President and CEO; and Rick Fleming Executive Vice President and CFO.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Rick will review the financial results for the quarter for the corporation and the business segments.
We will then open up the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
Also present for the Q&amp;A portion of the call is Bill Kelley Vice President and Controller.
Jim? Thank you Brian and good morning.
Thank you for joining us and I appreciate your time and interest in USG.
Last month I had the opportunity to travel in various locations in North America to meet our employees.
In every location I visited our team exhibited a high degree of commitment and optimism about our company's long-term prospects.
While it can be discouraging to battle through this very lengthy and severe market contraction the way we have our employees can see that we are making progress.
Total sales for the second quarter for the corporation were relatively flat down 1% versus last year but the progress we continue to make can be seen in the fact that our operating loss was reduced by 16%.
This is a significant improvement especially when you consider that last year's second quarter included the benefit of the government housing tax credit.
Regardless it's still loss and that's unacceptable to all of us.
Our #1 focus continues to be our path to profitability.
As we manage through this recession I can tell you that our employees are very aligned and we are pursuing 3 strategic objectives: First strengthening our core business.
Next diversifying the source of our earnings; and third differentiating through product innovation.
What I'd like to do is spend a couple of minutes and talk about each one of our objectives.
First strengthening the core.
Our core businesses North American Manufacturing and Distribution are solid.
They're all affected by the recession and low volume throughout our network.
The actions we've taken which you've heard in previous calls is to streamline our operations reduce our costs and eliminate functions that have strengthened all of our core products.
Wallboard Joint Treatment and Ceilings as well as improving our Distribution business.
These actions are producing tangible benefits right now on exceptionally low demand.
We expect that those benefits and the performance of each one of these businesses will be amplified as demand improves and we can realize the operating leverage in each one of the businesses.
Our second objective is diversifying earnings.
One of the most unusual characteristics of this recession besides the severity of it and the duration is the fact that all of our U.S.
market segments have declined roughly at the same time.
It's been very unusual that residential commercial and Repair and Remodel segments had been in recession simultaneously.
These segments have historically been contracyclical which have helped us to diversify our earnings in the past.
But this is not what we're dealing with in this recession and it's had a significant impact on our results.
Our plan is to further diversify our earnings and doing it through international growth and new product adjacencies.
We have successful operations outside the United States including Canada Mexico and most recently China.
Unfortunately these operations don't have the impact to counterbalance the downturn in the United States.
We are growing our joint ventures throughout the world and have technology agreements as examples of how we're going to add to our geographic diversity.
We are also expanding in product adjacencies that further diversify our earnings.
One example of this is commercial roofing.
Our SECUROCK roofing product is relatively new but has wonderful growth potential.
This is one example of expanding a current product into a new growth segment for USG.
Our third objective pertains to innovation.
USG is and always has been the leader in innovation.
Many breakthroughs that you know in construction are attributable to USG including the invention of wallboard itself almost 100 years ago.
Our customers tell us that leadership in innovation differentiates us from competition and it's truly a value add for our customers' business.
We have continued to pursue and extend our innovation leadership despite resource limitations that have resulted from this recession that we're in.
Last year we created an entirely new product category lightweight wallboard panels when we introduced SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight Panels.
The customer response to this has been wonderful.
It's now available in more than 2 000 locations in the United States and now in Canada.
Our next phase is adding to the lightweight wallboard portfolio with the introduction of the industry's first 5/8 product.
It's new to the market and it provides a long requested solution for our commercial contractors.
We will continue to expand our advantage in the lightweight category and more broadly the innovation leadership that differentiates USG in the market.
Now before I turn it over to Rick Fleming I'd like to mention a few highlights from the second quarter.
In our U.S.
operations Wallboard volume was down 8% compared to the second quarter of 2010.
The Ceilings business performed well this year despite weak economic conditions.
Our Substrates business had a solid quarter as well.
Adoption of new specialty panels in our Substrates business SECUROCK glass-matt sheathing SECUROCK roof board and DUROCK Next Gen all outperformed the market.
Outside of the United States our plant in Monterrey Mexico started the production of DUROCK Next Generation.
Our improved lighter stronger DUROCK that is used extensively in the exterior sheathing in Mexico and Latin America.
In Canada as I just mentioned SHEETROCK UltraLight Panels have been launched and have been extremely well-received by our customers.
We've also begun shipping SHEETROCK UltraLight Panels to our Latin American customers with rave reviews.
Our Distribution business L&amp;W Supply launched a new national brand to connect the identities of the 27 local brands and demonstrate our national -- nationwide strength.
This is all part of a broader and a fundamental change that is taking place at L&amp;W as we speak.
Also L&amp;W has been informed that we received a Vendor of the Year award from one of our largest customers emphasizing the focus we have on our strategic customers in this market.
In conclusion we are focused on our plan to win strengthen our core business diversify our earnings and differentiate through innovation.
Some of our key U.S.
market segments are moving sideways or quite frankly treading water but we are continuing to move ahead aggressively with our strategic plan in our road to profitability.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick Fleming for a deeper dive of our financials.
Rick? Thanks Jim and good morning to all of you.
Thank you for joining us.
As Jim mentioned I'll recap our second quarter financial performance and provide some additional details on the operating highlights that Jim just covered.
I'll also provide some comments on overhead interest expense taxes capital expenditures debt and liquidity.
As you heard from Jim the major headline for the second quarter is that our top line remains challenged by the weak U.S.
housing and construction market fundamentals.
But we're continuing to make progress towards profitability through our operating initiatives and controlling the controllables.
Now turning to the results.
Second quarter 2011 net sales were $761 million down 1% from the second quarter of 2010 net sales level of $769 million.
Our second quarter operating loss was $21 million compared to a loss of $25 million in last year's second quarter.
These results included $2 million of restructuring and other charges this year and $7 million last year.
In addition our sequential improvement was notable as the $21 million operating loss for this quarter compares to a $58 million operating loss in the first quarter of 2011 which included $9 million of restructuring charges.
Second quarter 2011 net loss after tax was $70 million or $0.69 per share based on average shares outstanding of $103.6 million.
This compared to a net loss of $74 million or $0.74 per share on 99.5 million shares outstanding in last year's second quarter.
In the interest of time I will not recap the 6-month results which are delineated in our press release and its attachment other than to note that the effectiveness of our cost-reduction efforts were evident here too.
Sales were essentially flat for the first 6 months of 2011 compared to the first half of 2010 but our operating loss improved by 26% and our net loss also improved.
Jim previously discussed our operating focus areas I will now provide a little more detail on our second quarter segment results.
The softness in the U.S.
market continues to impact all 3 of our business segments: North American Gypsum Building Products Distribution and Worldwide Ceilings.
When comparing this year's second quarter to the comparable period last year it is important to keep in mind that last year's second quarter included a positive impact of the housing tax credit.
In our North American Gypsum unit net sales declined 2% to $420 million for the quarter while its operating loss increased $5 million to $16 million versus $11 million last year.
This increased loss reflected lower volumes and margins for both wallboard and joint treatment.
A 5% price increase for joint treatment was announced in July effective August 1.
On U.S.
Wallboard business a key driver of North American Gypsum results it shipped 986 million square feet in the quarter down from 1.07 billion square feet a year ago.
Industry shipments declined about 270 million feet or 6% from last year's second quarter levels.
And they were essentially flat with the first quarter of 2011.
As I mentioned these unfavorable comparisons reflect the fact that second quarter last year included the temporary boost in demand from the housing tax credit.
Our average wallboard price was $111.55 per 1 000 square feet.
For the second quarter this is down about 2% versus same period last year but up sequentially by $2.40 per MSF versus the first quarter of 2011.
In Building Products Distribution the fundamental restructuring at L&amp;W Supply that Jim described is clearly improving results.
In fact the second quarter of 2011 represented the fifth consecutive quarter in which L&amp;W Supply posted improved operating losses over the comparable period in the prior year.
The changes that have taken place at L&amp;W are substantial from supply chain initiatives to a heightened focus on the commercial contractor to the way we have separated the sales function from the operations at the branches.
We are pleased with this progress and we expect to see further improvements.
Net sales from our Building Products Distribution business decreased $12 million or 4% to $207 million in the second quarter this year compared to second quarter of last year and same-store sales were down 4% as well for the quarter versus last year.
However operating losses improved by $8 million from a year ago to $14 million loss in this year's second quarter as our efforts to reduce costs and improve operating results continue to take hold.
L&amp;W wallboard volumes year-over-year for the quarter were down 24% while the average wallboard price increased over 8% versus the same period last year.
L&amp;W's wallboard margin was up 31% for the quarter versus the second quarter of 2010.
In addition sales from construction metal products and [indiscernible] products were up 8% and 7% respectively during this year's second quarter which helped in part to offset the wallboard volume decline.
As of June 30 L&amp;W operated 163 branches the same level we had at the end of the first quarter of this year.
Our Ceilings business has performed very well throughout the great recession and that trend continued in the second quarter.
Both sales and operating profit in Worldwide Ceilings were about even with last year despite weak market conditions.
Second quarter net sales from Worldwide Ceilings increased $1 million to $173 million and the second quarter segment operating profit was $1 million less than last year at $22 million.
USG Interiors the largest business unit in the segment experienced a $3 million decline in operating profit in this year's second quarter versus the second quarter of 2010 due to slightly lower tile and grid volumes and some raw material cost pressures.
I should note that a 5% price increase for tile and grid was announced in June of this year effective August 1.
Now I have some additional details on the rest of the P&amp;L and discuss what we've been doing to manage capital spending and our balance sheet including liquidity.
I will start with overhead.
We have continued to contain our selling and administrative expenses.
In fact our current annualized SG&amp;A spending is at 2002 levels.
In the quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $72 million down $1 million from the same period last year.
For the first six months of 2011 total SG&amp;A was flat with the first half of 2010 at $157 million.
Interest expense was $52 million for the second quarter and $104 million for the first 6 months.
And it's higher than last year due to our November 2010 bond offering.
We currently anticipate that interest expense will be about $209 million for all of 2011 on a P&amp;L basis and about $195 million on a cash basis offset in part by about $7 million of projected interest income.
As you may recall we currently have a full valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets of the majority of our operations and as a result our effective book tax rate continues to be minimal.
The effective tax provision rate was 1.6% for the second quarter of 2011 resulting in a 6-month tax benefit rate of 1.1%.
Looking ahead to the full year we anticipate an annual tax provision rate of approximately 0% depending on the mix of worldwide income.
Turning to capital spending we continue to benefit from the substantial investments in our operations that we made prior to the downturn and this has allowed us to keep annual capital expenditures at the $50 million level.
Capital expenditures totaled $12 million in the second quarter of 2011 compared to $5 million in the same quarter of last year.
For the first 6 months CapEx totaled $25 million and we are currently forecasting about $50 million of capital spending for the full year.
By the way the majority of this year's capital budget is focused on converting a number of our wallboard plants to be able to manufacture SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight Panels.
We are channeling these capital dollars to UltraLight Panels to accommodate the strong customer demand we are experiencing for these lightweight products.
Turning now to cash and debt we are very satisfied with our liquidity position.
You can see the numbers in our financial statement.
At June 30 we had cash cash equivalents and marketable securities of $725 million and we had nothing borrowed on our revolving credit facility.
When you include the borrowing capacity on our credit line we had total liquidity of $923 million.
Total debt as of June 30 was $2.3 billion essentially the same as the balance at the end of the first quarter as well as year end 2010.
In addition we have a number of liquidity initiatives around working capital management and further surplus asset sales.
We presently have about $70 million of asset sales under contract and we expect that these sales will be completed in 2011.
Let me conclude by emphasizing that we continue to have intense focus on improving our profitability.
We do see our cost and managing our balance sheet and liquidity.
And despite the weak demand levels that we are expensing we are encouraged that our restructuring efforts are bearing fruit as evidenced by the progress we are -- continue to see both in the United States Gypsum Company and L&amp;W Supply.
But we still have more work to do so our intense focus on profit margins cost and cash continues.
Now we will be happy to answer any questions you may have.
Brian? Thank you Rick.
We are now going to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Operator please open up the phone lines for participants to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
First question just on the United States Gypsum Company margins I was just trying to get a sense with obviously still staying in the loss position and obviously pricing is still very very challenged.
Given the restructuring actions that you've taken year-to-date and perhaps also thinking about if there's any impact as the natural gas futures roll off if things weren't to change in terms of pricing or volumes what type of benefit would that or impact would that have on the current level of operating margins in the U.S.
Gypsum segment again everything else equal except incremental flow-through from restructuring activities and changes in the natural gas pricing? Mike that's a great question.
It's Rick Fleming.
Let me cover natural gas first and then we can talk about the broader issue of the cost trends.
But just to re-emphasize we do have a hedge program in place.
And as you know some of the legacy swaps as we call them put in place before 2008 have been a bit of a drag on our natural gas cost although that's been abating.
To put it in perspective for 2011 about 23% of our buy is legacy swaps.
The good news is by the time you get to 2012 it's down to 8%.
We've been using the options since then so whenever gas goes down we get the benefit with an option.
We just cap the potential spike in gas if there was a supply chain disruption or hurricane type of event.
In that regard for 2011 we benefit from about 77% of our buy right now if the gas prices go down.
In 2012 it will be 92%.
So that's a positive trend there.
Right now with the blended cost of the current spot at the 458 as well as the legacy swaps for 2011 we have a blended cost of roughly $1 above the market.
So spot's 458 call it 558.
And when you get into next year that should drop about $0.50 or so and just by the roll-off of the old swaps.
To put that in sort of a dollar perspective our buy this year is about $90 million including our USG Interiors.
Next year it could be at $5 million or so less roughly.
Of course that takes -- that assumes gas stays where it is right now on the spot level.
Does that answer the question on the gas side? Yes.
So you're saying the $5 million benefit all else equal? All else equal at spot prices of today's level.
Now more powerful trend we're expensing is an improvement in our fixed-cost structure.
And if you look at wallboard costs were a quarter this year versus last year we had an improvement of about 2% or so.
And what happened was paper went up about 11% but we were able to offset that both with lower rock costs but most importantly lower fixed cost of almost 17%.
So the positive trends are sort of offsetting any inflation pressures in the Gypsum Company are evident in the numbers.
Paper by the way is trending to abate right now and so that looks like a -- it may be going a little bit the other way positive.
But the fixed-cost reduction 17% as I mentioned will continue and could actually be substantially improving if we get more volumes in the systems as well because of fixed-cost absorption.
So hopefully that gives you a sense of that side of the coin as well.
So in terms of just incremental benefit from cost savings from any type of restructuring activities is it mostly in the numbers today? It would be certainly in the numbers relative to the fact that we haven't done major restructuring so far after the first quarter.
And any of those benefits are starting to show up in the numbers.
But they'll play out a little bit more over the course of the year.
Okay.
Second question...
By the way that comment related to the manufacturing footprint for the United States Gypsum Company.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow Research.
This is Josh Borstein in for Garik.
I was wondering if you could just talk a little about pricing wallboard prices in the quarter.
I think the prices may have come in a bit below what many were expecting considering the March and May price increase.
Yes this is Jim Metcalf.
As Rick talked about in his prepared comments our price improved about $2 for the quarter.
We did have a little bit of pressure from freight but that wasn't a big impact.
And the industry is still in a 50% plus or minus capacity utilization and there is some low demand.
So we got to a point we've talked about balancing price and volume in previous calls and that's what we continue to do.
And we have been very aggressive as you know on price increases over the last 18 months.
And during the quarter we felt that we wanted to protect some of our share and our customers' position.
So we are pleased though in this environment at the low capacity rates that -- utilization rates that we are getting price improvement.
So kind of stepping back from it we'd always like to get more but we're still seeing some positive trends in pricing.
Okay.
And just one follow-up question staying with pricing.
If you can talk about -- a little bit about securing additional price increases in the future what strategy that may be.
And a lot of manufacturers have an August price increase out there having come across any letters from USG.
Also some manufacturers now announced a September price increase? Are you going to support either of those attempts do you think? Well just kind of stepping back when we look at price improvement as I just mentioned we've historically and will continue to be pricing on our value.
We look at the market of where we will have the higher probability of success of realizing a price increase.
It sends our customers to a lot of administrative tasks if we just put an increase letter out and we don't think we can get it.
So we feel that August was not an appropriate time.
We thought it wasn't right for our customers and we're going to continue to monitor demand.
We look at our market share.
We have a new product rollout.
And we'll put a price increase announcement when we feel we have a high realization factor to get it.
So you never have to worry about us being aggressive on price.
But we want to do it when it's the right time for our customers and we think it's the right time for the market.
Our next question comes from Trey Grooms from Stephens Inc.
This is actually B.G.
Dickey in for Trey.
My question is just around volumes actually in wallboard.
I think previously you guys stated that you were expecting kind of modest growth for the full year in terms of volumes but -- and I know that you got probably a bit easier comps in the back half of the year.
But do you still think that you guys can get positive growth there? Yes we have taken a little different approach on the year looking at total wallboard opportunity.
We think opportunity's probably going to be as we ended the year probably flat versus 2010.
The second quarter did take a pause in demand.
It comped last year as we talked about the housing credit.
But we have backed off a little bit from our demand for this year.
I guess the good news is it hasn't gone down year-on-year.
It's just we aren't expecting an uptick.
Everyone saw the housing start numbers this week but that's only one month.
So we are going to be very conservative on the outlook on demand and we think it's going to be around flat versus 2010.
Our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson from Thompson Research.
LLC.</strong> The first question is on your Ceilings segment.
And the ceiling sales increased momentum on a percentage basis load in Q2 versus the prior 2 quarters.
Question is why the relative slowdown? And how much visibility do you have with your Ceilings business? And how is this different versus your Wallboard segment? Yes Kathryn.
The Ceilings business it did take a slight pause in the quarter but we're still pleased with the results.
Really what impacted the Ceilings results in the quarter as Rick talked about was we had some raw material inflation that our price just lagged behind it slightly.
Steel costs increased tremendously in May and June.
But as Rick indicated we have a grid increase for the 1st of August which we're very optimistic on.
The Ceilings business does track very differently than the Wallboard business.
Our Ceilings business is heavily weighted to commercial repair and remodel.
I think that's why we've seen the strength of the Ceilings business over the last 2 years surprise some people because of the very low comps we've had on new commercial.
So they do operate in different demand factors.
For example housing starts have nothing to do with our Ceilings business.
We really track with commercial repair and remodel and we also track architectural billings because that's very important on new commercial.
We're starting to see some modest improvements in the outlook on our commercial new commercial construction.
And our point of view it's low single digits improvement year-on-year.
But we do have about on Ceilings you have about an 18-month lag on the demand factor.
On wallboard it's about a 12-month lag.
So that's kind of another difference there.
But we're really -- we're still -- we're very optimistic on our Ceilings results.
We're going to continue to stick to our plan that we've been implementing in the last 3 years.
And I'm optimistic that we're going to have a solid year.
LLC.</strong> I think with that my first question I was really focusing more on the top line as opposed to the margins.
So raw material fluctuations wouldn't necessarily impact the top line so really it's more on the top line.
Well top line quarter sequential quarter-on-quarter we were up.
And if you -- the top line USG Interiors if you look at it was $112 million second quarter this year basically flat for 2010.
So top line growth has -- sequentially is up slightly from the first quarter flat versus the second quarter last year.
So the top line is important for us but we've been focused over the last 3 years on Ceilings is a return on investment in our margin improvement.
So the top line is not a concern for us and we think that the rest of the year it should be some positive top line growth.
And Kathryn just add to what Jim said remember commercial new commercial is down 15% last year with the lag that is in the market this year.
So that's part of what you see.
As Jim mentioned 2/3 of Ceilings is Repair and Remodel but 1/3 is still in new commercial.
Our next question comes from Bob Wetenhall from RBC.
LLC</strong> It sounds like it's a very difficult demand environment.
And my question is for Jim.
If results on an EBITDA basis in 2011 are similar to 2010 would you be comfortable with that? Are you expecting better EBITDA performance? And I want to couch this with the caveat that you guys have been generous in saying that there's pretty limited visibility.
So I'm just trying to gauge I think you were $45 million of EBITDA last year.
Is that a bogey you would like to see this year? Would you be pleased with that? And is that something we can look forward to? Bob thanks for your question.
Absolutely I would not be pleased with that.
We've put a lot of effort in reducing cost introducing new products balancing price and volume really focused on our customers.
And it is our job not to be pleased on anything that we did last year.
We want to continue to improve.
I'm not giving a projection but I would not be pleased with a $45 million EBITDA for 2011.
LLC</strong> Is that another way of saying we might expect for better performance in the back half of the year to beat that number in 2011? Well I'm not going to -- I can't give you a projection.
But you know me well enough I would not be pleased.
Our next question comes from Rodny Nacier from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
You had commented earlier on the international expansion opportunities and adjacent products that you're looking to get into.
Can we get a sense of maybe timing of those investments and if you're looking to expand it to new geographies and what products you'd be focusing on in your business? Sure.
Thanks for the question.
Great question.
As we talked about our 3 strategic objectives we spend a lot of time on these calls talking about strengthening the core and that is extremely important.
That's really been job #1 over the last 3 years.
That's strengthening our North American Gypsum business our Ceilings business as well as what we've been doing on L&amp;W Supply.
So to talk about our second objective about diversifying our earnings I really welcome that.
And we're going to hopefully get some questions on UltraLight because this is a very exciting product that I'd like to say is our iPod for the industry.
But on international business we have taken a very strategic approach that we are going to focus on markets where we can have critical mass and I like to use the example markets that are similar to our success we've had at USG Mexico where we have landed assets we have business leaders in that markets running the business and we have a full product line.
We are looking at the Latin American market.
It's a market as we move down from North America down into Central and Latin America with our AIS acquisition we made 3 years ago.
It gave us a great platform for growth in the northern cone of South America.
And we are looking as I mentioned in my prepared comments we've made an investment in Beijing with our ceiling tile plant.
And I don't think anyone can ignore the growth that everyone sees in China.
So our ceiling tile plant is past start-up phase.
We are in optimization of our ceiling tile plant.
We have great partners in Beijing.
We have a very active board over there and we're very optimistic about growing our business in China.
When you talk about product adjacencies I used the example of our commercial SECUROCK board and this is a product that has been growing exponentially really started from 0 12 months ago.
It's a product we already make basically our FIBEROCK product that we have commercial roof systems.
And the reason we like this is this is in the repair versus the remodel segment of the market.
When a commercial building needs their commercial roof repaired this isn't something a company or owner would defer considering even in the midst of the recession.
We're also looking at products that our customers currently have but would prefer us to distribute.
So the product adjacencies can also be in our distribution.
One great example of that is our commercial exterior system that L&amp;W Supply distributes.
We are the largest distributor of the Dryvit exterior system.
And we view that as a product adjacency.
We don't have to manufacture it.
We can also distribute it as well.
So we put some internal targets for our business units on expanding or diversifying our earnings through geography with products that we currently make as well as adjacent products that may be new to USG but in markets that we are the leader in.
So we're really excited about it.
We'll continue to update you as the results as we get some successes here.
But these investments are going at this point will be minimal considering where we are in the market.
But we have put together a 5-year plan and have lined up where we are going in some of our opportunities.
So we're really excited about it and I really appreciate you asking the question.
And on the current quarter in your Ceilings business I'm trying to understand the margins.
I'm trying we have some people in queue and I don't want to be rude but we're trying to keep this to one question.
If you we could just -- if you can just hang in there with this we have some time we'd be more than happy to answer the Ceilings.
And if not we'll do it on a follow-up call.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
I promise I'll keep it to one.
[indiscernible] as well.
I guess my question on UltraLight is you guys have talked about this obviously.
It's a big innovation for the industry.
But at the same time when you look at the volumes you mentioned that you're down a little bit more than the industry on a year-over-year basis and it looks like sort of similar to the industry sequentially.
And based on our numbers price is probably a little bit weaker than the industry year-over-year.
So when will -- when do you expect to start to see the market share opportunity come through from UltraLight either in the form of stronger volumes or better price? Is that something we could look forward to in the second half of the year? Dennis that's an excellent question.
If I can just frame it in 2 ways.
First on the volume and let's put UltraLight aside.
We have been really as you've heard in the last probably 24 months are keen on balance of price versus volume market share versus price improvement.
And really the last 6 months we have focused honed that down on the L&amp;W Supply piece as well.
So when L&amp;W has reengineered and changed their strategy to focus on profitability and key customers it has had an impact of overall volume obviously in our system.
So the first impact has been L&amp;W's focus on the commercial contractor and key strategic customers.
L&amp;W has had a price improvement believe it or not in this environment.
We don't show that a lot in our results or highlight that as much as we do at the Gypsum company.
But L&amp;W has had very good price improvement with their customers and quite frankly have moved away from some either unprofitable customers or some unprofitable regions.
So that has impacted the overall volume of U.S.
Gypsum and the volume for L&amp;W.
But we believe this has been a sea change to reengineer both the Distribution business and balance price and volume.
So we aren't concerned about our share basically the last probably 3 to 5 quarters has been relatively flat tenths of points up or down and we're at a point now that we think with UltraLight coming to your question on UltraLight we think this is a great opportunity to strategically grow our market share in a way that is new to the industry.
We're very excited about expanding our footprint in UltraLight and 5/8.
This is really the big step change.
1/2 inch was a very big challenge for us.
Having the lightest weight product in the industry by far is something that's great.
But along with that the performance is critical.
Passing a sag test when you have something that light that does not sag passing the ASTM nail pull is actually critical that we will not go backwards on.
And then on 5/8 having the appropriate UL fire testing is a big challenge which we check marked all 3 of those.
So we currently have the lightest board in the market.
We passed all the critical industry tests.
But really the 1/2 inch category that you're seeing and we've just rolled out a 1/2 inch nationwide.
So really in the last month we're nationwide with 1/2 inch.
We just started our 5/8 last month.
We'll have 5/8 FIRECODE very very soon.
We have 5/8 30.
This is a 30-minute assembly which about half of commercial construction buildings do not need a 1-hour rated wall.
They need a 5/8 assembly.
So we're getting some great traction there.
So I'm very optimistic about this.
And I think you're going to start seeing some great results as we roll out our 5/8.
And I think the proof will be in the numbers and hopefully next quarter the numbers will jump off the page and you'll see what UltraLight's doing.
But this is truly a new product for the industry getting into the 5/8 FIRECODE passing that 1-hour assembly.
We have passed all the appropriate tests.
And now they'll just be rolling it out to our plants.
So we're staying ahead of where we think we need to be and really the big areas in commercial construction where labor rates are so high.
So we have our commercial contractors very excited about the 5/8 category.
So I'm optimistic about it.
So we have 2 things you have the UltraLight rollout and then you have the reengineering of L&amp;W I think would be a backstop for those numbers that you see.
Our next question comes from John Baugh from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> My question is on Ceilings and you mentioned the new construction and the lag being down 15%.
Trying to get a feel for what pricing did in the second quarter versus volume.
And did you not have price increases in place year-over-year? I know you've got one coming on August 1st.
But was pricing up? And then was the volume decline assuming that was the case because you had flat revenue what did remodel activity do? Or was all the volume decline driven by new commercial construction being down? Yes we did get price improvement from the second quarter first quarter versus second quarter both on tile and grid.
The only thing what really impacted the results -- the result at the bottom line wasn't a huge variance was raw materials went up a little faster.
So I think we have a timing issue particularly on grid as Rick indicated.
We have a tile and grid increase for August 1.
So I think that's more of a timing.
Yes to answer your question there was price improvement on both tile and grid in the quarter.
And when we talk about 15% that was 15% in opportunity which with the lag that was last year we're kind of in the midst of feeling that now with that 18-month lag.
The numbers for 2011 are anywhere from say 2% to 4% improvement.
So we won't see that 2% to 4% until back half of next year.
So the R&amp;R side of the business has still been pretty solid particularly in areas where the vacancy rates have come down office buildings are getting remodeled.
So that's the bigger component.
But we still do watch that new construction.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> So is the R&amp;R volume up in the second quarter year-over-year flat? My impression is public spend is tough but corporate's good? Yes it's low single digits.
I mean maybe 1% to 2%.
It is up but nothing to write home about.
When I gave my remarks I mentioned volume was down in both categories year-on-year.
But if you look sequentially first quarter second quarter pretty flat on grid and up a little bit on tile.
Our next question comes from Ivan Marcuse from Northcoast Research.
I just have one question.
CapEx continues to be fairly low how long can you keep it at this level? How sustainable is it? And at what point do you have to start increasing your capital expenditures? Sure.
A great question.
If we need to we could keep it at this level.
We're thinking 2012 as well.
We are in the process right now of doing our annual strategic planning and we're looking at all the opportunities that we have in front of us as you can appreciate.
We have many more opportunities than $50 million would allow.
So we're going to be going through the capital budget and setting the number in the balance of the year.
We'll certainly share that with you once we've done it.
But a lot would depend on the overall environment as we enter 2012 in terms of how much of an increase we put in the capital budget.
Right now we don't have a number for 2012.
But if necessary if we had a double-dip recession something of that type we could keep it at $50 million for 1 more year.
Okay.
Great.
My second question is on the Ceilings business.
Excuse me.
I hate to be the Sergeant at Arms again.
We're trying to keep this to 1 question and we still have quite a few people who've not been able to ask.
So if I could ask you to just defer that please.
Our next question comes from Jim Barrett from CL King &amp; Associates.
Inc.</strong> Jim in terms of wallboard pricing could you discuss as to whether there's any material regional differences in the pricing trend you're seeing over the quarter and the first half and discuss the Southeast specifically? Yes and there are regional differences that the Southeast is the most challenged market.
Obviously with Florida probably being our worst demand market.
Everyone I'm sure knows what's going on there from a housing standpoint.
But if you look at Florida up through the true Southeast we're starting to see some positive a little bit of life in the Carolinas better.
The mid-Atlantic area is a little stronger.
So I would say mid-Atlantic to the Northeast is better pricing dynamics.
And as you go over into the Midwest the Midwest down to Texas our scenario is that we would have better pricing dynamics there.
But the Southwest is still very weak Phoenix Vegas Southern California.
Pacific Northwest is an area that is trending and showing some signs of life as well.
So it is very regional.
When numbers get quoted there's a national realized price.
So I would say if you step back from the whole United States from an improvement standpoint it would the Midwest Mid-Atlantic and Texas areas would be -- would stand out.
Our next question comes from Joshua Pollard from Goldman Sachs.
I would like to know how much higher should your incremental margins be in a recovery.
A number of quarters ago you guys pretty consistently talked about the 80 to 100 range.
So I wanted to figure out what your thoughts were now as you guys outlined your initiatives and potentially if you could focus one part on you guys fixing the core of the business and the other part on what portion of your gypsum contracts are actually already set.
So you guys sort of talked about gas and 2011 and 2012 sort of where you guys are already locked in.
I'm trying to understand on the pricing front what number of your contracts really don't allow for much price improvement or somewhat locked? You're pretty good.
You weaved in 2 questions into one.
So I'm going to have Bill Kelly.
Our Controller is going to answer your dual question.
Let me take the first half.
This is Bill.
To the point of the operating leverage over the historical cycle of our U.S.
Gypsum business I'd say the numbers reported in the past have been in the 30% to 60% range.
You go back to the 80 to 85 range it's around 35%.
2001 2004 about 33% and between 92 and 95 it was up almost 60%.
I'm not sure I understood the second half of the question but that's the first one.
I will call it 1B not second part of the question was whether around your pricing and I'm trying to understand what portion of your production right now is already under contract today for 2011 and how we could potentially look at that for 2012.
Are we talking 25% 50% of your contracts are already sort of long-term contracts sort of thinking the Freedom Tower and things of that nature? Okay.
We typically have job quotes.
For example the Freedom Tower is a great example.
And we don't disclose that number but it is a -- we keep that percentage very tight on what pricing is locked in versus pricing that is market.
For example at midyear July 1 a lot of the job quotes either expire or job quotes have escalators.
So typically if we have a large job we quote that job with a set price but with time or volume price escalators.
So it's not a huge percentage of our business.
Most of our business is on a daily market price scenario.
So we don't tie up a lot of our production on locked-in jobs.
Our next question comes from Dan Oppenheim from Credit Suisse.
Getting back to some of your initial comments in terms of the again working towards cutting cost in the retro profitability.
Overall you're fairly cautious on the demand environment and describing this downturn as being much greater in terms of magnitude than we've generally seen.
Aside from the demand there's clearly the ability to work on the supply side if you look at the UltraLight product now does that enable you to ship greater distances? If so does it offer any opportunities in terms of looking at capacity and thinking about getting to higher pricing that way? Yes UltraLight is a wonderful product from an environmental sustainability point of view because you can get more on a truck.
You can ship it further distances and that helps you when you're supplying products that are lead-qualified jobs.
So absolutely when you're 30% lighter just as you get 1/3 more products on the truck.
That also is very good for our distribution customers because at the end of the day the more product the more UltraLight they buy from USG the more product they buy from us that is UltraLight they quite frankly won't need as much equipment.
And in this environment our dealers are under tremendous amount of pressure.
And for them not either having to have as much equipment or be able to turn some equipment back helps our customers be more profitable.
From a production standpoint as Rick indicated on our capital our capital has been primarily for UltraLight conversions.
The good news is it doesn't it isn't a huge capital expenditure to convert UltraLight.
5/8 is relatively there's really relatively minimal capital.
But this will provide additional volume because quite frankly this is a product that contractors want over any competition.
It's lighter.
It performs well.
And particularly getting a 5/8 product the last caller brought up the Freedom Tower job in for example New York City a fully loaded drywall hangers labor rate is over $100 an hour.
So you can imagine having a product that's 1/3 lighter the productivity increases that will have on the job site and the impact the contractor could have on his labor rate sets USG UltraLight Panels apart from whatever one can do.
So we're extremely excited from an environmental standpoint from what it does for our customers either our distribution customers on equipment or our contractor customers on productivity our workmen comp claims things of that nature.
But at the end of the day it will be additional business for USG.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> You had spoken in your presentation about wanting to diversify and you talked about growth overseas you talked about product adjacencies.
To make a meaningful difference I imagine that would take some meaningful dollars and I was curious how given the environment we're in given the balance sheet et cetera how would you think about financing that? Sure.
Well first of all we're thinking a multi-year time horizon.
So our strategic plan would not be a plan just for 1 or 2 years.
But I think in terms of the next cycle.
So having said all that clearly right now the cash flows would not support substantial opportunities being pursued unless you went to market and we do think we can do that if we had great opportunities both in the volume market as well as in the equity market.
But we are very much aware that if you ever go to the equity market the opportunity has to well exceed the cost of capital.
And that's embedded in our thinking and embedded in the way we look at things.
But having said all that even with today's capital spending budget as we proved with UltraLight we can make select investments and we think we can do more over time.
In some of these emerging markets Jim shared the past.
We're targeting South America particularly Brazil India and China as opportunities and we think we can do things there.
On the adjacency side we have both organic as well as opportunities that will be external that we'll be considering over time as well.
So everything has to be done in its own pace given the market realities but having said that we think over time we can make a meaningful difference.
Inc.</strong> I don't want to get too theoretical here but how do you think about your cost of capital or cost of equity in particular and how dependent is it on where your stock price is? Well clearly the stock price is one of the factors when you look at your cost of equity.
And we also take a long-term view on cost of capital which is that you can't just use today's low interest rate as the input in the model.
You have to look at something more normalized.
Having said all that our cost of capital a day we might be a little bit on the high side probably in the area of about 12% after-tax.
Our final question comes from Angela Uttaro from OppenheimerFunds.
Question for you regarding your capacity utilization.
You talked about a 30% utilization rate and coupling that with your focus on your core business.
Do you think that there are any potentially further reductions in your fixed capacity? Or alternatively could you joint venture or outsource any of your manufacturing in order to kind of get the supply demand equation maybe a little bit more in sync? We look at scenario planning both up and down.
And right now we're really pleased the way the network is running at these very very low rates.
We focus on our low-cost plants really filling the low cost plants up first and then our medium plants we use for some of our specialty and commercial products.
But as always if there is another down leg we do have a plan.
We know what plants would come out.
But it would not significantly what we would do.
We'd not significantly move total industry capacity utilization that much.
Your question on joint venture is quite intriguing because we are currently -- the previous question was how we're going to grow internationally.
Well one of the ways we are doing it and the way we got a very successful venture in Beijing China is to joint venture.
So we have very successful joint ventures throughout the world.
We have them in Europe.
We have an alliance in Canada.
We have joint ventures in China and the Middle East as well as a few others.
And having joint ventures in North America isn't anything that is out of the realm of possibilities.
So we are open to those.
We've done joint ventures for many years and every joint -- not every joint venture is the same.
So we're keeping our mind wide open on that.
It's a great question.
That concludes our questions.
Jim? I think you have some concluding comments.
Yes.
I really appreciate the questions and the good news is we had more questions than time.
So for those of you that had follow-up questions and second questions we were trying to get as many people represented.
So hopefully that was accommodating for you.
But just to wrap up as we're talking about the expectations for the U.S.
market 2011 our expectations have been pretty modest.
The market was weak again in the second quarter.
I don't think that was any surprise to anyone here.
We were disappointed.
We didn't see any significant signs of recovery.
But we were basically planning for it.
We continue to believe the recovery will become evident in 2012 and we think it's going to pick up some speed in 2013.
The overall demographics that you look at in the United States in particular we feel it's not a matter of if it's when.
But more importantly we are pursuing our strategic objectives.
As I said in my prepared comments and I really appreciate the questions on some of the other areas is we're strengthening the core of our business that is critical.
We are not taking our eye off the ball of our North American manufacturing and distribution.
We're going to diversify our earnings as we have in the past.
We're going to diversify them more to add to strengthening our core.
And then the third area which you're seeing during the year is differentiation through innovation.
For example our product like UltraLight Panels.
So strengthen diversify and differentiate really that is our strategy.
We're working through all of our employees all of our resources our capital.
They're aligned behind those 3 broad objectives.
We're starting to see some positive contributions now.
And we expect to see more as the market improves and as we continue to focus on our operations in our path to profitability.
So I appreciate your time today.
We look forward to touching base with you next quarter and we appreciate your interest in USG Corporation.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Friday July 29.
Information is available on our website.
That concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the USG Corporation Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Monica and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Brian Moore Senior Director Investor Relations.
Mr.
Moore you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call and Live Webcast.
We will be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Relations section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management’s current views and assumptions about business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of today's press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
With me today to discuss our results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf President and CEO; and Rick Fleming Executive Vice President and CFO.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insights into some of our businesses.
Rick will review the financial results for the quarter the corporation and the business segments.
We will then open up the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
Jim? Thank you Brian and good morning.
Thank you for joining us today and we appreciate your interest in USG.
As we position for success what I'd like to say about our company is USG provides shelter.
It's where our customers live work and play.
We are not a company that solely relies on housing which is currently less than 25% of our portfolio.
We are not just a wallboard manufacturer even though it currently casts a very long shadow on our business.
USG's portfolio of surfaces substrates ceilings and distribution add diversity to our leading wallboard foundation.
These industry-leading businesses position USG as a solution provider in building products.
As we look at our current environment the recovery in the U.S.
economy continues to be fragile.
For the most part our key markets continue to experience recessionary levels that are at/or near record lows.
Outside the United States our markets have stronger demand.
Some of our international markets like western Europe have slowed as well.
While we are expecting a recovery we are not waiting for it to happen.
We need to successfully operate USG within the current market demand levels.
We need to continue to lower our breakeven with a very sharp focus on profitability.
To accomplish our objective of profitability and our aspiration of a more diverse company we have established 3 strategic priorities: strengthening our core businesses which is North American manufacturing and distribution; diversifying our earnings; and differentiating through innovation.
What I'd like to do is touch on each one of these.
First strengthening our core.
This is a key strategy and has been our major focus over the last few years in fact we've been spending most of our time and we continue to do it on strengthening the core of our business.
If you step back from all the facts and figures we have 2 areas that we need to improve: wallboard gross profit; and L&amp;W profitability which are 2 very large areas we are extremely focused and they provide a tremendous upside leverage for the company.
We have initiatives in both areas to continue improvement such as our launch of SHEETROCK UltraLight Panels and major structural changes in L&amp;W which has resulted in 6 consecutive quarters of improved results.
Innovation at USG is a core value and differentiation from competition is vital particularly in this very challenging market.
We continue to have a leadership position providing our customers with very exciting new products.
Most recently we created an entirely new product category lightweight wallboard.
SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight Panels were the first lightweight product to hit the market now in the over 2 300 locations.
Over the last month the most exciting news that we have is the introduction of lightweight wallboard for the commercial contractors.
We've expanded the product family to include 2 fire-rated lightweight wallboard products targeted at the commercial market.
Our 5/8 FIRECODE 30 and our 5/8 FIRECODE Type X will provide increased productivity in large commercial projects where labor rates and efficiency are vital to our commercial contractors.
With all the necessary UL certifications these products again differentiate USG in the market.
But we are going to continue to invest in innovation.
We are currently exploring methods to expand our lightweight technology to other product lines.
And we are actively developing new environmentally-friendly technologies for our products and our manufacturing processes.
Our goal is to significantly reduce energy in manufacturing and meet our customer's demand for greener more sustainable products with continued cost efficiencies.
Rick Fleming will provide the details of the quarter.
But before he does I'd like to describe our third strategic objective diversify our earnings.
Over the long term USG has successfully led to demand cycles because we serve all 3 key domestic segments: residential commercial and repair and remodeling.
This diversification in our portfolio typically helped us soften weak demand in a particular segment.
The current recession in the U.S.
construction market is unique because all 3 segments have experienced simultaneous declines.
In fact this is the first time in my 30 years in the industry that all 3 segments had been significantly down at the same time.
Being the leader in these segments our high exposure to the U.S.
market has had major impacts on our results.
When we look at the performance of our international operations they grow and contract at a different pattern than the U.S.
Diversifying our earnings is critical as we position USG over this cycle.
Our current international business does not have the critical mass to counterbalance our U.S.
operations but we do have wonderful international opportunities to invest and grow.
This will help reduce the impact of the U.S.
construction cycles and diversify our earnings strength.
For example our growth and market share leadership in Mexico serve as a template on how we can effectively expand internationally.
Investments in landed assets local managements and sharing USG best practices provide a foundation for profitable growth.
Expanding internationally does require careful thought and planning to select the right market at the right time.
We have a plan for very targeted growth where we can be the market leader.
And we believe we can replicate our success in Mexico and other markets to diversify our earnings and increase the percentage of revenue from businesses outside of the United States.
In conclusion our business has 2 critical fixed areas: U.S.
wallboard margin and L&amp;W profitability.
With a focus on innovation and structural changes at L&amp;W these areas continue to show improving trends.
Our management team's focus is to continue to lower our breakeven return to profitability and position USG for growth.
With that I'd like to turn to Rick Fleming who will review our third quarter performance.
Thanks Jim.
And good morning to all of you.
Thank you for joining us.
As Jim mentioned I'll recap our third quarter financial performance and provide some additional details on our operations.
I'll also provide some comments on overhead interest expense taxes capital expenditures debt and liquidity.
As you heard from Jim the major headline for the third quarter is that our key U.S.
markets of repair and remodeling commercial construction and housing continue to experience recessionary levels of activity.
But despite this weak demand we are continuing to make progress towards profitability through operating initiatives and controlling the controllables.
At the top line we did see another positive uptick during the third quarter this year as this was the second quarter this year and the second time since the beginning of the downturn in mid-2006 where we experienced a positive sales comparison versus the previous year.
Some may consider this a small step but it was a step in the right direction.
Now turning to the results.
Third quarter 2011 net sales were $792 million up 4.5% from the third quarter of 2010 net sales level of $758 million.
Our third quarter operating loss was $76 million compared to a loss of $58 million in last year's third quarter.
These results included $59 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges this year and $35 million last year.
Majority of this year's third quarter restructuring and impairment charges relate to a noncash write-down in the carrying value of our Windsor Canada  gypsum quarry and ship loading facility.
As part of our continuing efforts to adapt our operations to market conditions we idled these assets earlier this year and after an extensive study we plan to shut them down permanently in December.
The rightsizing of our mining assets follows our earlier efforts to rightsize both our manufacturing footprint and our distribution business.
Including the restructuring and impairment charges our adjusted operating loss was $70 million versus $23 million in last year's third quarter calculated on the same basis.
A schedule reconciling GAAP operating profit to adjusted operating profit is attached to the press release.
The third quarter 2011 net loss after tax was $115 million or $1.09 per share based on average shares outstanding of 105.3 million.
This compared to a net loss of $100 million or $1 per share on 100.1 million average shares outstanding in last year's third quarter.
In the interest of time I will not recap the 9-month results which are delineated in our press release and its attachment other than to note that the impact of our actions to return USG to profitability were evident here too.
Those were essentially flat for the first 9 months of 2011 compared to the first 9 months of 2010 and our adjusted operating loss and GAAP operating loss improved by $26 million and $10 million respectively.
I will now provide more detail on our third quarter segment results.
Softness in the U.S.
market continue to impact all 3 of our business segments: North American Gypsum Building Products Distribution and Worldwide Ceilings.
In our North American Gypsum unit net sales increased about 6% to $437 million for the quarter while operating loss increased versus the third quarter of last year due primarily to lower margins in the U.S.
for both wallboard and joint compound and higher restructuring and impairment charges.
Our U.S.
Wallboard business a key driver of North American Gypsum results shipped 1.046 billion square feet in the quarter an increase of 1.8% compared to the third quarter of last year.
Although average selling prices for the quarter increased compared to the first and second quarters of this year they were lower than in the third quarter of 2011 versus the third quarter of 2010 with an average realized price for the third quarter this year of $111.66 per MSF versus $114.45 per MSF a year ago and this lower price level impacted wallboard margins.
Joint compound has slightly lower volumes but the major factor that negatively impacted margins here was an increase in plastic pail cost that was primarily driven by higher resin prices.
We have a number of cost reduction initiatives in place to improve joint compound margins and we also implemented in September a 5% price increase for these products.
We should also mention a one-time item that occurred in the quarter which does not affect segment results but does affect the business unit results of the United States Gypsum Company CGC or Canadian Gypsum Company and Canadian Mining.
During the quarter we entered into a tax settlement with the top [ph] authorities in the U.S.
and Canada which had the impact of reallocating about $12 million of expense from the United States Gypsum Company to CGC and Canadian Mining.
And this improved U.S.
Gypsum operating income by that amount while reducing our CGC and Mining operating income by a like amount.
By the way this tax settlement resulted in a $4.1 million tax refund to the corporation.
In our Building Products Distribution business the fundamental restructuring of L&amp;W supply is clearly improving results.
In fact the third quarter of 2011 represents the sixth consecutive quarter in which L&amp;W Supply posted improved operating losses over the comparable period in the prior year.
The changes that have taken place at L&amp;W are substantial.
From supply chain initiatives to high-end focus on commercial contractor to the way we have separated the sales function from the operation at the branches.
We are pleased with this progress and we expect to see further improvements.
Net sales from our Building Products Distribution business were essentially flat at $283 million compared to the third quarter of last year and same-store sales were up 1% for the quarter versus last year.
As our operating losses improved versus last year's third quarter our efforts to refocus the business restructure operations and reduce costs continue to take hold.
L&amp;W wallboard volumes this year-over-year for the quarter were down 13% while the average wallboard price increased over 1.2% versus the same period last year.
L&amp;W's wallboard margin was up 10.5% for the quarter versus the third quarter of 2010.
The addition of sales from construction metal products and ceiling products were up about 10% and 8.5% respectively during this year's third quarter which helped in part to offset the wallboard volume decline.
As of September 30 L&amp;W operate 155 branches versus 163 at the end of the second quarter of this year.
Our ceilings business has performed very well throughout the great recession and that trend continued in the third quarter.
Both sales and operating profit in Worldwide Ceilings were up versus last year despite continued soft market conditions.
Third quarter net sales for Worldwide Ceilings increased $9 million to $183 million and third quarter segment operating profit was $25 million compared to $21 million from last year's third quarter.
USG Interiors the largest business unit in the segment experienced a $1 million increase in operating profit in this year's third quarter versus the third quarter of 2010 as price increases offset the raw material cost pressures experienced earlier in the year.
Now I'll add some additional details in the rest of the P&amp;L and discuss what we've been doing to manage capital spending and our balance sheet including liquidity.
I will start with overhead.
We have continued to contain our selling and administrative expenses.
In fact our current annualized SG&amp;A spending is at 2002 levels.
In the quarter SG&amp;A expenses were $70 million down $4 million from the same period last year as our cost control actions continue to positively impact results.
For the first 9 months of 2011 total SG&amp;A results were down $4 million to $227 million versus the 9 months of 2010.
Interest expense was $54 million for the third quarter $158 million for the first 9 months and is higher than last year due to our November 2010 bond offering.
We currently anticipate that interest expense will be about $210 million for all of 2011 on a P&amp;L basis and about $195 million on a cash basis offset in part by about $6 million of projected interest income.
As you may recall we presently have a full valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets of the majority of our operations and as a result our effective booked tax rate continues to be minimal.
The effective tax rate was 11.2% for the third quarter 2011 resulting in a 9-month tax rate of 5.4%.
Looking ahead to the full year we anticipate an annual tax rate of 3.7% depending on the mix of worldwide income.
Turning to capital spending.
We continue to benefit from substantial investments in our operations that we made prior to the downturn and this has allowed us to keep annual capital expenditures at the $50 million level.
Capital expenditures totaled $30 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $7 million in the same quarter of last year.
For the first 9 months CapEx totaled $38 million and we continue to forecast about $50 million of capital spending for the full year.
Turning now to cash and debt.
We are very satisfied with our liquidity position.
You can see the numbers in our financial statements.
At September 30 we had cash cash equivalents and marketable securities of $677 million and we have nothing borrowed on our revolving credit facility.
If we include the borrowing capacity on our credit lines we had total liquidity of $883 million.
Total debt as of September 30 was $2.3 billion essentially the same as the balance at the end of the second quarter as well as year-end 2010.
In addition we continue to have a number of liquidity initiatives around working capital management and further surplus asset sales.
We presently have about $15 million of asset sales in our contract and we expect that $5 million of these sales will be completed in 2011 and the balance in 2012.
Let me conclude by emphasizing that we continue to have an intense focus on improving our profitability reducing our costs and managing our balance sheet and liquidity.
And despite the soft demand levels that we are experiencing we are encouraged that our actions will return USG to profitability of bearing fruit.
But we still have much more work to do so our intense focus on profit margins costs and cash continues.
Now we will be happy to answer questions you may have.
Brian? Thank you Rick.
[Operator Instructions] Operator please open up the phone lines for participants to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Michael Rehaut of JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
I was hoping maybe you could give us a little bit more color on the SHEETROCK UltraLight in terms of the percentage of the business that it currently represents and maybe what you expect that should go to in the near-term.
And also if you could provide the pricing differential between SHEETROCK UltraLight versus the other wallboard products.
Well appreciate the question on UltraLight.
First I'd like to say we are very excited about the introduction of our 5/8 FIRECODE 30 and our 5/8 FIRECODE Type X.
This is something our commercial contractors have been asking for.
It was a very challenging project for us and I'm extremely proud of our research development technical people and manufacturing teams that have worked very hard to get this into the market actually sooner than we had anticipated.
When you look at labor rates that are anywhere from $70 to $100 in our major cities this is going to be a big product for our commercial contractors.
The 1/2 inch UltraLight that we've had in the market for just over a year quite frankly has exceeded our expectations.
As I said in our prepared comments it's in over 2 300 locations.
It's available nationally nationwide now and in Canada.
So we're extremely excited about that and what we like about it is our customers are selling this product at a premium.
So our customers are getting a value-added product in a very very tough market.
So our customers are very excited.
The percent of UltraLight as a percentage of our total 1/2 inch has exceeded our expectations.
We are not disclosing that number but each month it continues to grow.
And our customers are requesting it in the market.
So we're very pleased with it.
A couple of things I'd just like to mention on UltraLight which many of you have been asking us over the last couple of weeks about the impact to our customers.
We've just received 2 very exciting awards about UltraLight.
One was we've just been honored to be the -- UltraLight was the Product of the Year award by Global Gypsum which is a worldwide association of gypsum manufacturers that will be meeting in Las Vegas.
And UltraLight was the product of the year.
And we just also received from one of our largest customers the Home Depot Innovation of the Year Award which really put some teeth into this product.
And we're extremely excited and honored that Home Depot would recognize UltraLight as their top innovative product of all the products that they sell through the big-box retailers.
So we appreciate the interest you have on UltraLight and we're very excited about the growth of it.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow up could you provide your capacity utilization versus the industry's for the quarter? We're running about 45%.
Research Division</strong> Do you happen to know what the industry is? It's probably a little higher than that probably 48% or so.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois of Longbow Research.
I just have a question here you've recently eliminated job quotes for wallboard pricing as have most of your competitors.
I was just wondering if you could provide a little bit more color based on your conversations with people in the field how this has been received over the last couple of weeks by your customers and how sustainable do you think this change in pricing behavior appears to be.
That's a great question.
Just to kind of step back job quotes really started over the years as it provided some certainty on projects that bid out in the future.
This gave our customers some predictability on future increases.
But as everyone knows about the major decrease of large projects and quite frankly a very very inefficient process for our customers and really for us we took the position to eliminate the job quotes in 2012.
We will have a single price level for our customers for the year which will reflect our value proposition.
It will take a lot of uncertainty out.
This is different for our customers but the preliminary conversations that we have have been very encouraging with our customers.
Our price for 2012 will be announced in early December.
So it's so far so good.
Our customers it is different for them.
It's a -- we want to make sure we're communicating clearly with our customers.
But quite frankly this eliminates a lot of administrative burdens.
And we think it's going to help our customers plan better for 2012 on their product costs.
Is most of the pricing that you provide subject to the quoting behavior? Or is it mostly spot? You mean current levels? Yes.
Current levels it really varies.
There's a pretty -- it varies by region but our percentage of job quotes is less than half.
But there's not that many large jobs out there.
Quite frankly if you look at our pricing over the last really year and a half we've had prices that have averaged $111.
So we've -- and if you think about that the pricing has been fairly stable but if you think of all the administrative cost of price increases up and down and the letters and a lot of the conversations we have on these calls that we think going forward from an administration standpoint this is going to be good for our customers and we know it's going to be good for us.
So this will eliminate a lot of the uncertainty but also a lot of the inefficiencies that go along with it.
Our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson at Thompson Research Group.
LLC.</strong> I'm just following on with the job quote elimination question.
Taking a step further what sort -- type of pushback are you getting from homebuilders about job quotes elimination? And does the elimination of job quotes improve current realized price and should clean up your backlog of job quotes? Well right now we haven't really received that much pushback on the job quote policy.
It's gone -- it's been -- gone fairly well we're really pleased.
It's still early.
We'll be able to have a better review of it and be able to give you fact-based next quarter.
But we think it will clean up some of the inefficiencies as I said and some of the low-end pricing that's out there.
So we will be announcing our price around December 1 and we'll take into account how the market looks what raw materials -- raw material inflation and any type of market conditions that we see.
So we think that this is very different for the industry but we think that it will get some clarity to our customers so they can quote jobs and they can take some costs out of their system.
LLC.</strong> And just to clarify.
I mean I know you've had conversations with distributors.
But you're saying that you haven't necessarily gotten any pushback from builders or contractors about this.
Is that a correct interpretation? This is different for them.
I mean they will have more certainty on their prices.
And quite frankly builders are not that big of a percentage of our business.
LLC.</strong> Okay great.
Given some of the changes and adjustments you've had to your footprint where do you think breakeven is now in terms of overall housing starts? Or how should we think about breakeven changes in your structure? I would not look at breakeven as housing starts.
We look at breakeven Kathryn as total industry shipments because you have repair and remodel which is now over 50% of the opportunity.
So housing starts have a big impact.
As you know the metric of every 100 000 housing starts it's approximately $8 billion feet of wallboard industry demand.
But we feel obviously our breakeven if you look at our numbers we've taken out approximately $500 million in costs.
So we've lowered our breakeven by that amount.
And we look at breakeven for industry shipments not just housing starts.
And we do not disclose what that number is.
Our next question comes from Rodny Nacier of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> With your strategy to diversify your overall business how does that now impact your strategy within the U.S.
Wallboard business specifically? And within that context could you address your views on USG's current installed wallboard capacity and if incremental curtailments are part  of your plan? As I've said in my prepared comments our strategy is really in 3 parts strengthening the core which is North American manufacturing and distribution.
And really that's where we've been spending 80% 90% of our time.
So diversifying our earnings is really positioning our company of how we look in the next trough as I like to say.
So obviously North American gypsum is a key market for us.
We are not turning our back on manufacturing and distribution in North America.
In fact that is -- if you look at our average EBITDA over the cycle it's $400 million to $450 million.
So that's why we have to protect that core of the business.
But along with that there are some opportunities to continue to diversify our portfolio as we've done in North America between residential commercial and repair and remodel.
And we have some very very interesting opportunities outside of North America.
And I like -- that's why I like to use the example of Mexico of having a couple of more Mexicos in our portfolio.
If you look at our network in North America our current manufacturing network with the current demand and we're taking the approach that we're not going to have much uptick in demand over the next year.
We think our current footprint is appropriate.
We look at lowest delivered cost in each major metropolitan area.
So right now the footprint that you see is how we'll be operating.
We do look at that every day.
And if there is a downtick we do have a contingency plan if things get worse of what capacity would come out.
So along with that we have the same type of rigor around our distribution footprint.
As Rick alluded to in his comments we took out some centers during the last quarter.
And our current L&amp;W footprint we feel is appropriate in these current levels.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up in the Wallboard business again.
With your current plans to increase pricing in that business could you just help us provide us with some color on what you're seeing now versus maybe last quarter and your decision to first -- what's your decision to increase this pricing now? Well we have not announced a price increase for the beginning of the year at this point.
We will be -- we're looking at the market conditions all the things that I just talked about.
And we will be giving price -- we'll have a price announcements to our customers at/or around December 1.
So you'll see that in the market when you do your channel checks first week or so in December.
The next question comes from Trey Grooms of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> So just on the -- you guys have like you  mentioned lowered your costs of about $500 million or so and one of the strategies here is to continue to lower your breakeven.
I think you mentioned energy and reducing energy costs there.
Can you talk about I mean how are you planning on doing that and what's different kind of -- with your strategy going forward and how you plan on taking out more costs? Sure.
Trey it's Rick Fleming.
Obviously as Jim just mentioned part of the equation has been to rightsize our infrastructure to the current market.
I alluded to in my comments that we've pretty much worked through the manufacturing assets at this level of demand.
We've been at work on the L&amp;W side of the equation but we think we're pretty close to completing that scaling.
And then of course we did mining assets in the third quarter.
I want to assure you that no rock will be unturned as we move this corporation to profitability.
And the menu of things that we're exploring right now to further improve our situation both from a profitability standpoint and a cash burn standpoint include everything from looking at our benefit programs we have a number of profit enhancement initiatives that run the gamut from the 5/8 introduction all the way through looking at the effectiveness of how we're organized as a company.
As part of that we're looking at the back office and how that can be streamlined.
And we're looking really at a number of other initiatives that are very numerous.
And the process is intense.
We have extreme follow-up activity going on.
And I think you'll continue to see the fruit of these efforts as we go into the fourth quarter and into 2012.
Research Division</strong> When you mentioned energy-specific I didn't know if there was something you guys -- some kind of change you guys had in mind going forward from your hedging -- with your hedging strategy or some plant changes you had identified that could save you some there.
Is there anything there that we should look forward to? Well energy comes into 2 parts right? It comes in price and it comes in usage.
On the price front we will benefit in 2012 by the current gas prices and the fact that we will be more hedged with options as opposed to swaps.
That's probably going to pick up $11 million to $12 million this year-on-year.
But on the usage front which is what Jim was alluding to we have a number of initiatives in our lab and in our plants that will decrease usage and therefore improve cost.
But also it's good for the environment.
Our next question comes from Seth Yeager of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Can you break out the noncash impairments that you took during the quarter versus some of the cash restructuring items? Sure.
During the quarter as you know we had $59 million of restructuring and impairment activity.
$42 million of that was the impairment activity as it relates to the Windsor facility.
There's about $10 million in that for the adjustment of ARO which today is noncash but over time could be cash as you work through the reclamation activity.
And then last but not least $7 million of that was for L&amp;W restructuring about $4 million of that was restructuring -- accruing for leases that will be effectively terminated over time but paid in full.
And so we accrue for that but the cash goes out later and then the balance was like sort of cash cost and severance et cetera.
Okay great.
And then just as a follow-up it sounds as if you're fairly comfortable around your current footprint under the sort of flat assumption going forward.
But how do you guys prioritize your use of cash around expanding internationally expanding your UltraLight line and versus minimizing your CapEx and cash burn with your upcoming 2014 debt maturity? That's a great question.
So we've been running about $50 million of CapEx and we are on record saying that we could hold that level in 2012 if we need to.
We also are exploring the possibility given market conditions and the overall cash generation of the company to potentially take that CapEx level up to $75 million.
That balance would be highly dedicated to higher returns projects and some of the strategic initiatives that Jim has alluded to.
Relative to today's level of activity the vast majority of our $50 million has been dedicated to UltraLight and getting the plants effectively in a position to manufacture UltraLight both the 1/2 inch and the 5/8.
Got it.
Okay.
And then as far as expanding internationally I mean have you pegged any numbers around what sort of cost you would incur there? This is Jim.
On our international what's been really interesting to us is with our technology and our innovation certainly utilizing a lot of that is our currency.
So some of our early expansion has been with technology and joint ventures.
So our international expansion I like to call it an asset light our capital light expansion in this environment.
We're going to be very pragmatic.
We're going to utilize JVs and alliances as well as leveraging our technology as currency.
But we do have a percentage of our CapEx as Rick alluded to if it's $50 million or $75 million allocated to high return projects projects that reduce energy as well as projects that diversify our earnings either through international or through adjacencies.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Dennis McGill of Zelman &amp; Associates.
Rick I was just hoping you could talk a little about cash flow expectations both fourth quarter and I guess how we should think it about moving forward if demand doesn't change too much.
I'm realizing revenue was up a little bit EBITDA was up a little bit but cash burn has deteriorated versus last year.
How should we sort of think about that moving forward? Let me address the quarter first Dennis and then I'll talk about the trends going forward.
Relative to the third quarter our cash usage was about $48 million very similar to the second quarter.
Looking at the quarter on quarter second quarter to third quarter the only items of note that I would characterize as something to consider as with an impact on the third quarter that wasn't in the second quarter related to the fact that currency moves probably accounted for about $10 million of the usage of the cash.
These are not realized.
The currency moves is when you translate cash held overseas back to U.S.
dollars you end up with a lesser number.
A good part of that was the Canadian dollar change which went from $1.04 beginning of the quarter down to $0.95 not really realized but nonetheless in the numbers.
The other item for the quarter that was impactful was we topped off our pension contribution for the year of $10 million.
So between the 2 it was about a $20 million swing that impact to the third quarter.
Going into the fourth quarter we generally find ourselves with a cash situation that moderates tremendously in terms of cash usage.
Part of that revolves around working capital liquidation but in previous -- if you look back at history and previous fourth quarters we actually can be cash neutral to slightly negative.
And I think that trend will continue for the fourth quarter of 2011.
We also benefit in the fourth quarter by the fact that as I alluded to we have a $5 million asset sale that will consummated in the fourth quarter that will be added to the cash situation.
Going into 2012 we're obviously telling our investors that we're moving heaven and earth to get this company back to breakeven operating profit.
If we can accomplish that objective we're not putting a date on it we will substantially reduce the amount of cash that we're using.
That's key to our equation and I alluded to a number of initiatives we have in that area.
So we are working hard and we think we can improve the situation as we get closer to the 2014 maturity.
It is our intent to pay that off of our existing resources but we'll have to see where we get on that situation as the environment unfolds.
Very helpful.
Just a second question.
Could you break out on the wallboard side how much of the business roughly is 1/2 inch versus 5/8? And then any color you can put around the trends on a year-over-year basis one versus the other as compared to the 2% total growth? If you look at the 1/2 inch versus 5/8 and this is an estimation and I also have  the analysis follow-up with the specifics but our primary it's probably about 60% 1/2 inch; and 40% 5/8.
That is predicated with we have a pretty large footprint in the big-box retailer business is repair and remodel repair and remodel is over 50% of our footprint.
But we can follow up with you on specific numbers of that if those are disclosable numbers.
And I think actually that's a pretty good estimate.
Dennis just for your background take wallboard demand and break it into the subsegment about 59% 60% is R&amp;R right now.
About half and half of residential versus commercial.
Then you have new residential about 27%.
You have new non-res about 8%.
And then the other category is about 6%.
So that as you know the user is the 5/8 or the commercial segment.
The next question comes from Bob Wetenhall of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> It seems like in the Wallboard business that weaker pricing offset the volume growth.
But for North American Gypsum you actually had very good 6% revenue increase.
And I was trying to understand how you were able to achieve that revenue growth.
Bob a couple of areas.
We did -- as you know we did have unit growth.
We do on our wallboard volumes year-on-year.
We also -- other categories in the North American Gypsum we had -- in our substrates business we had a fit performance with DUROCK.
Solid performance there.
From a top line basis our Canadian business continues even with the adjustments there continues to grow.
We grew the UltraLight category in Canada Western Canada which was very good from a top line basis.
So it was really a little bit of everything.
It was some volume growth not just top line unit growth.
It was -- in the numbers it was -- our substrates growth was something that was good.
And quite frankly we're very pleased with UltraLight.
That's been a -- some great wind in our backs.
So it's not one magical bullet it's a march of 1 000 steps.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
As a follow-up the margin improvement year-over-year in L&amp;W was very dramatic.
And I'm just curious if that trend is sustainable do you expect that in L&amp;W specifically you could reach breakeven at current demand levels in 2012? Great question.
You know I'm not going to give you a projection but you're trying.
I will say L&amp;W has just done a phenomenal job.
As I've said it's been 6 consecutive quarters of improved trends.
We still aren't at breakeven yet but we do have a line of sight to it which is great.
They've really done it on a few fronts wallboard spread improvement.
So their margins in wallboard have improved and they've done a great job of raising prices in the market.
And that's something that that's taken with -- that's a direct output of their new organization and having more discipline in the market and having fewer people with pricing authority.
So wallboard price improvement has been one.
Their margin improvement on steel insulation and ceilings so those complementary products so it's been a laser focus there.
And quite frankly taking cost out.
So it's been -- I'd like to refer to it as been a weed and feed business.
And L&amp;W has dramatically restructured itself.
They're very focused on branch operations separate from the sales and focused on commercial contractors.
So we're very pleased with the trend.
We are operating in really the mindset not only in L&amp;W but the entire corporation Bob that we -- our plan is to get operating profit breakeven in the environment we're living in.
So as Rick said we have to move heaven and earth to get this done but we are not banking on a recovery and we'll be very impatient to turn this place around.
So I'm pleased with L&amp;W's results but we need to fix wallboard margins.
And if we do those 2 things a lot of good things are going to happen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just sneak one quick in.
I think this is your first positive comp in L&amp;W.
Do you expect sales to remain in positive territory going forward? Because I'm just trying to figure out you said you are at 155  distribution units.
Is that kind of the level you want to be at? Or should we expect further rationalization of the portfolio? We keep an eye on that every month.
And we really focus on that comp store number that Rick alluded to and that was up 1%.
And there could be a little bit of pruning around the edges but in the current environment we think we're in pretty good shape with the current network.
And if there is a downtick we're very flexible to move this up or down.
And on the other side is we think with any increase in demand which we aren't expecting near term but if there was an increase in demand in L&amp;W we don't have to add any centers which is nice.
We'll be able to leverage up our distribution as well as our manufacturing business with additional demand coming through the system.
And that's where the leverage really starts getting some traction.
So we think right now we're in good shape.
Our next question comes from a Jim Barrett of CL King &amp; Associates.
Inc.</strong> Jim could you talk about the volume growth of 2%? Would you able to tell us to what degree that represented gains in market share? We -- very slight.
We aren't really focused on our market share.
This is about making the profitability as we've talked Jim.
But if you look at from a regional basis our business was stronger east of the Mississippi.
And that had a lot to do with UltraLight conversions.
Inc.</strong> Good.
And as we move to 2012 regardless of what the demand is would you expect UltraLight based upon what you've seen today to drive meaningful market share growth? How should we anticipate that? I think UltraLight will provide us the opportunity for profitable reasonable growth.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
This is actually John calling in for Mark.
On the topic the same with the topic of wallboard market share.
I know earlier this year you said you have typically run around 30%.
Where are you now? And do you think you largely accomplished the goal of getting market share back to where you're comfortable? Or are continued market share gains part of a major part of your strategy going into 2012? Our strategy into 2012 is profitability.
And any type of growth it needs to be profitable growth.
UltraLight is a great avenue for that as well as we think with the getting rid of our job quote policy and having our customers with more predictability of our price will help.
But this is not a market share grab market.
We think that it's still going to be flat next year.
And where we pick up share from a profitable standpoint and we do it through a value-added product that's something that of course we'll take.
Our capacity share is as you said around 30%.
We have a long way to go there and we don't have a magical market share number we want to get to.
The key is wallboard margin improvement and L&amp;W profitability.
Those are the 2 levers we need to pull to turn this around and we think we have the appropriate actions behind those.
Our next question comes from Dan Oppenheim of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Mike Dahl on for Dan.
Just sticking with the UltraLight I was wondering if you could just give us an update on where you are in the process of converting your plants to be able to produce UltraLight and what you see is the trajectory heading into 2012 as.
Yes.
On 1/2 inch UltraLights we are shipping nationwide.
We have all of our -- we have the plants that will ship coast to coast and into Canada that are up and running.
So we're in great shape there.
And I'm very proud of the extremely diligent and quick moving process that we did of our team.
And the reason we've moved so fast and we accelerated UltraLight nationwide is our customers really wanted us -- wanted the product.
And it's great in this environment when your customers are really asking for the product.
So the 1/2 inch UltraLight is really nation -- U.S.
and Canada.
And 5/8 our 2 new products in 5/8 is shipping into the northeast United States.
And that is because that's where the biggest customer demand is.
And we will continue to be rolling out 5/8 into 2012.
Research Division</strong> And just is a follow-up what are you seeing as a competitive response to your UltraLight products? Some of our competitors have products that quite frankly have heavier paper and fiberglass in the core.
And our customers are really speaking to it.
Customers are asking for our product from a performance standpoint from a workability standpoint.
Really we think we're in a great spot and we're really judging from our customers' responses.
They are asking for SHEETROCK brand UltraLight Panels and that's why we had to roll it out quickly.
On 5/8 there has -- we have not seen any type of response from 5/8 on either one of the product categories.
The next question comes from Angela Uttaro of Oppenheimer Fund.
I'm still a little bit confused on how you're proposing to grow internationally.
You suggest through primarily joint ventures and using your technology as capital.
So no cash required? No no no.
I'm sorry I wasn't clear on that.
We do have -- we will have capital allocated in the CapEx budget that Rick was talking about.
Yes.
So there will be some capital.
What is nice about some of the international markets we're looking at it's not -- I like to call it an asset-light a capital-light strategy.
You don't have to invest the same amount of capital for a plant as you would in the United States.
So it would be in the confines of the $50 million or $75 million of CapEx that you see in our financials.
Our next question comes from Joshua Pollard of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just very quickly you guys are running at about 45% capacity utilization expecting 2012 to be flat.
When you think about your more medium-term strategy for the business if there was assumption that 2013 were to be flat as well would you guys then begin to think about more capacity shuttering or think about some sort of regionalizing of the business? I'm just trying to understand how you guys are approaching what the out years of demand look like relative to your capacity? Yes.
We actually have different scenarios on demand and we always look at what if it's either longer as you said into 2013 or there's a downtick.
And we would have a point of view of what capacity would be idled or shut down.
Our network is running pretty well now.
We have almost record efficiencies at our current network.
We've learned how to run our plants.
And there's been some great lessons learned over this recession of how to run these large plants at very low utilization levels.
But absolutely we would look at are there some regions that we would not ship to or not.
But it all gets down to is what the margin is.
The capacity utilization could be at 45% but if the margin improvement is there we would still be running our network.
We feel that there may be if you look at the entire industry there may be around another 5% to 10% of capacity that could come out.
But this is not a taking-capacity-out scenario this is a lack of demand.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then when we think about UltraLight could you just talk maybe in subjective terms even about the profitability of UltraLight versus your standard product? What's the difference in profitability there? It's better.
Our last question comes from James Finnerty of Citi.
A quick question on asset sales.
You've highlighted the ones that are sort of in progress.
If necessary are there additional asset sales that could be done over the next couple of years if you needed to bolster liquidity? Well the asset sales that we're working on are really surplus real estate.
And so they effectively monetize an asset that today is not earning any return on capital.
So that the 2 that I alluded to are excess land and a facility that we think can be sold.
We have others on the surplus property list that we'll be working on.
Some of these take a little bit longer because of zoning issues or effectively the need to find buyers who are looking for that piece of property.
The short answer to your question is yes we have other asset sales that will be in the pipeline particularly if you use the to 2- to 3-year time horizon.
And that would be a similar dollar figure in terms of the ones that haven't been disclosed yet? Yes.
I mean I think the types of order of magnitude you should think of would be in the area of $10 million to $30 million over time on an annual basis.
Okay.
And just one follow-up question with regard to the 2014 maturity.
Just going through some of the language.
There seems to be language in the ABL that states that if the 2014 maturity isn't refinanced or diffused by a certain point that the ABL springs forward if liquidity is below a certain figure like $500 million.
Is that the case? Am I reading the basics of that correctly? No that is the case.
In fact you'll see a description of that in our 10-Q and 10-K.
The notion here is that your banks do not want the credit they provide you to fund a bond maturity.
And so it's quite common to have a truncation of the credit lines if 90 days before the bond maturity if it hasn't been funded.
Now you can fund it in several ways.
In the credit agreement there's a $500 million liquidity threshold as long as we are above that it's a non-issue.
The other approach would be to take $300 million of cash and buy T-bills and just defease it.
That gets expensive if it's done well in advance of the maturity but that's another way to handle it.
And of course the third one is just to refinance it.
So but the credit agreement does have that structure in it that you just alluded to.
We have no further questions.
That concludes our question-and-answer session.
Jim has to give some concluding comments.
Yes thank you for your questions.
They're all very good ones.
And I'd just like to say and everyone realizes that the market that we're in is still very challenging but it's not preventing us from pursuing our strategies.
As I mentioned in the near term we are extremely focused on profitability take no -- have no doubt on that.
That is our #1 focus.
Longer term we will build a company with more diverse earnings and we want to differentiate and continue to differentiate through innovation.
And as I said in my opening comments we're going to accomplish these goals by following these 3 objectives: strengthen diversify and differentiate.
Strengthen diversify and differentiate that is our strategy.
As I mentioned our primary challenge right now there's 2 of them.
Wallboard gross profit and as we talked about we have some initiatives behind that.
And L&amp;W surplus profitably.
We think we're making progress and we do remain confident that with discipline and focus we're going to overcome both of those challenges.
As I wrap up this quarter's call I'd just like to take a moment and I'd like to acknowledge Bill Foote who will be retiring from USG on December 1.
Bill has done an outstanding job of leading our fine company as Chairman for the last 15 years.
And he's done this through periods of rapid growth and absolute severe economic contractions.
I've personally worked with Bill in a variety of roles throughout my career.
And I will say his vision his leadership his mentoring has helped all of us and has helped USG remain the leader in the building products industry.
It is my sincere honor and privilege to follow Bill as Chairman and to build on this wonderful company's solid foundation.
We have an excellent management team.
I am proud of everyone that works alongside of me.
And this management team as we said is extremely extremely committed to maintaining and enhancing USG's long-standing reputation as a leader in our industry.
Thank you for your interest today and I appreciate you joining us.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Friday October 28.
Information is available on our website.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Welcome to the USG Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sandra and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Ken Banas.
Mr.
Banas you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call and Live Webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management’s current views and assumptions of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
With me today to discuss our results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rick Fleming Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Rick will review the financial results for the quarter and the year for the corporation and the business segments.
We'll then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
We would like to ensure that everyone has an opportunity to ask questions so when we get to the Q&amp;A session callers are asked to limit themselves to one question.
Jim? Thank you Ken and good morning.
Thank you for joining us and we appreciate your interest in USG.
Today what I'd like to do is frame my remarks in the context of our strategic plan which are 3 areas: Strengthening our core business which is North American manufacturing and distribution; diversify our earnings through targeted international investments and growth through adjacent products; and third is differentiate through innovation.
As we look into 2012 we continue to see a soft market in the United States even with no expected help from overall demand our #1 objective is to achieve operating profit as soon as possible.
Our management team and talented professionals are aligned and very focused on that target.
Now what I'd like to do is expand on our 3-part strategy of strengthen diversify and differentiate.
First strengthening the core.
Throughout this breathtaking recession we've been extremely focused and quite frankly we've been spending the majority of our time and efforts here.
Our core businesses in North America of wallboard ceilings and distribution have the largest impact on our financial results.
We have implemented numerous initiatives with a keen focus on safety customers and quality.
Our objective has been to significantly lower our breakeven by closing inefficient manufacturing facilities and distribution branches to position USG stronger as we exit this recession.
Strengthening the core is not just about cost reduction it's becoming more efficient and squeezing value from our assets.
For example our Lean Six Sigma initiative has improved efficiencies at our industry-best manufacturing plants even with these historically low capacity utilizations.
We are committed to our position as the North American leader in building products manufacturing and distribution.
We believe that the actions we've taken and we're going to continue to implement will strengthen these core businesses and have a major impact on our objective of operating profit.
Our second objective is to diversify our earnings.
While this recession may be unprecedented for all 3 of our major customer segments to collapse our goal is to if not eliminate but smooth out the cyclicality of our business.
To diversify earnings we're working on 2 fronts: international growth and adjacent businesses.
We are focusing on select international markets with attractive growth opportunities.
These are markets that we will capitalize on our excellent reputation and brand of USG.
A great example of this is our business in Mexico.
Our leading market position and critical mass have enabled USG Mexico to have a successful 2011 with exciting opportunities in 2012.
With a solid foundation in place we will be rolling out our newest innovation in Mexico SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight Panels this year.
As we look ahead China and India provide growth opportunities for us.
We already have a successful ceiling tile joint venture in Beijing and we plan on building our customer relationships and strong brands in the far east.
We also see an opportunity to diversify our earnings through product adjacencies.
An early success has been our entry into the commercial roofing business with SECUROCK roof board.
This adjacent business capitalizes on our industry-leading innovation in gypsum fiber and products like FIBEROCK underlayment.
Having early customer acceptance we are now moving ahead growing our business in the adjacent commercial roofing system.
What we've done is we've reallocated our resources using our weed-and-feed approach and we are currently embarking on a 30-city product roadshow with architects and contractors as we speak.
Our third objective is to continue to differentiate USG in the market through innovation.
USG is known and respected for its innovation and contribution to building sciences throughout our 110-year history.
It's an important part of our value proposition and something that truly differentiates us from the competition.
The latest milestone is the introduction of lightweight technology in commercial construction.
Our SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight Panels have been a tremendous success.
Customer response has been highly positive and sales have exceeded our expectations.
But stepping back and before we started our lightweight platform in 2009 with the introduction of the next-generation of DUROCK.
DUROCK Next Gen is 25% lighter easier to cut and faster to install.
Lighter easier faster is the mantra we're using for our entire lightweight portfolio.
We continue to extend our innovation to our flagship product SHEETROCK wallboard.
Half-inch SHEETROCK UltraLight is 30% lighter than standard wallboard.
Seeing the success of the half-inch product in the residential segment we moved quickly to introduce 2 different 5/8 panels that are targeted at the commercial segment.
We are in the process of rolling those products out across North America to complement the half-inch product which is already available nationwide.
It's important to understand that our lightweight technology is a true breakthrough in manufacturing.
Having the lightest product in the industry is just the first step a product that outperforms competition in strength nail pull and sag all critical areas on specifications and most importantly job performance.
This platform will allow us to extend to other product categories focusing on our customers' biggest concerns: productivity and performance.
We will continue to differentiate through innovation as we will be introducing a joint treatment that is 40% lighter that's right 40% lighter that's something our customers have been wanting and asking us for.
This new and exciting innovation is being introduced this quarter.
Our customers appreciate the fact that our lightweight platform differentiates USG with products that are easier to handle install reduces fatigue and is environmentally friendly.
We've made a lot of changes and improvement to our company during this recession all to position USG stronger.
Some were designed to reduce costs which we have done.
Others were implemented to affirm USG's position as the leader in innovation.
And others will help us change the profile of our revenues and profits so we are not so dependent on a single market or segment.
All of these changes are benefiting USG.
Some are producing immediate results such as our rationalization of our U.S.
manufacturing and distribution networks which have greatly reduced our cost position.
Other efforts will deliver results over a longer period of time such as our international diversification.
I'm confident that all of them are making USG a better company that will generate attractive returns for you our shareholders.
Now what I'd like to do is turn it over to Rick Fleming who will walk through our financial results.
Rick? Thanks Jim and good morning to all of you.
As Jim mentioned I'll recap our fourth quarter and full year financial results and provide some additional details on interest expense taxes capital expenditures and liquidity.
Fourth quarter 2011 net sales were $750 million up nearly 8% from the fourth quarter of 2010 net sales level of $696 million.
Our fourth quarter operating loss was $42 million compared to a $95 million loss in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Fourth quarter 2011 operating loss included $5 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges compared to $56 million last year.
This quarter's charges of $5 million included $3 million for the finalization of restructuring expenses related to the Windsor quarry permanent shutdown and $2 million related to a voluntary workforce reduction program we implemented in the fourth quarter.
We believe that our restructuring initiatives including our previous actions to rightsize our manufacturing distribution and mining footprints continued to move us toward profitability.
Excluding the restructuring and impairment charges our adjusted operating loss was $37 million versus $39 million in last year's fourth quarter.
A schedule reconciling our GAAP operating loss to our adjusted operating loss is attached to the press release.
The fourth quarter 2011 net loss after tax was $100 million or $0.95 per share.
This compares to $121 million net loss in 2010 or $1.17 per share.
Now I will briefly recap the full year results.
Net sales were $3 billion an $85 million or nearly a 3% increase from last year.
In 2011 we achieved our first net sales increase since 2006.
The operating loss for the full year of 2011 was $197 million including restructuring and impairment charges of $75 million.
This compares to an operating loss of $260 million for 2010 which included $110 million of restructuring and impairment charges.
Excluding these onetime restructuring and impairment charges our adjusted operating loss in 2011 was $122 million versus $150 million last year.
Our net loss after tax for 2011 was $390 million or $3.76 per share.
This compares to a net loss of $405 million or $4.03 per share for last year.
I like to emphasize the key point that Jim mentioned regarding these results.
Despite lower wallboard volumes in 2011 we have managed to reduce our operating loss before restructuring charges by almost 19% due to our restructuring actions.
We have been creating our own recovery and we will continue to do so.
I will now provide a little more detail on our fourth quarter segment results.
In the North American Gypsum segment net sales increased over 7% to $422 million for the quarter while its operating loss decreased over 70%.
These changes are primarily due to a significant reduction in restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus the fourth quarter of 2010 as well as an improvement in U.S.
wallboard price volume and cost.
Our U.S.
Wallboard business shipped 1.09 billion square feet in the quarter an increase of 15% compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
This was due to better-than-average weather across the country and the increased market acceptance of USG SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight Panels.
The average selling prices in the fourth quarter were up both year-on-year and from the third quarter of 2011 with an average realized price for the 2011 fourth quarter of $112.59 per MSF compared to $111.95 per MSF in the fourth quarter of 2010 $111.66 per MSF in the third quarter of 2011.
Our Building Products Distribution business continues to make strides towards profitability.
Net sales increased to $264 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 a 5.6% increase year-on-year.
The operating loss in this year's fourth quarter increased to $15 million from $12 million a year ago due primarily to several favorable litigation settlements that benefited last year's fourth quarter by $8 million.
Adjusting for these onetime benefits L&amp;W's operating loss continued to improve year-on-year for the seventh consecutive quarter.
The changes that have been implemented at L&amp;W are substantial from supply chain initiatives to a heightened  focus on the commercial contractor to the way we have separated the sales function from the operations at the branches.
We are pleased with L&amp;W's progress and we expect to see continued improvements.
The increase in sales at L&amp;W in the fourth quarter of this year was driven by their non-wallboard products.
Wallboard volume was down year-on-year by 5.8% offset in part by a 2.3% improvement in wallboard price.
But the majority of the increase in sales occurred in construction metals products and ceilings products where sales were up 14% and 5.6% respectively in the fourth quarter.
Turning to Worldwide Ceilings.
Our Ceilings business continues to deliver excellent results.
Worldwide Ceilings had increases in both net sales and operating profit in the fourth quarter and for all of 2011 versus 2010 despite the continued soft commercial market conditions.
Fourth quarter net sales for Worldwide Ceilings increased by $15 million to $164 million.
In the fourth quarter segment operating profit was $18 million a 50% increase from last year's operating profit of $12 million.
And importantly the largest business unit in the segment USG Interiors continued to have strong earnings.
These results were driven by record grid margins due to both manufacturing efficiencies and strategic pricing actions that offset steel cost increases.
Finally I should mention that for the full year USG Interiors achieved its highest operating profit in over a decade.
Now I'll add some details on the P&amp;L and discuss what we have been doing to manage capital spending and our balance sheet including liquidity.
I will start with overhead.
We have continued to contain our selling and administrative or SG&amp;A expenses.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 SG&amp;A was $80 million versus $83 million last year.
For the full year SG&amp;A was $307 million compared to $314 million in 2010.
We have been able to hold SG&amp;A expenses at 2002 levels and we have a number of initiatives to further improve our efficiencies in this area.
Now I will turn to interest expense.
Interest expense is $53 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 and $211 million for the entire year.
On a cash basis interest was $196 million for the year and it was higher than last year due to our November 2010 bond offering.
In 2012 we expect that our P&amp;L and cash interest expense will be at similar levels.
Regarding taxes as you may recall we presently have a full valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets of the majority of our operations and as a result our effective book tax rate continues to be minimal.
The full year tax benefit rate in 2011 was approximately 2.6%.
Looking ahead at 2012 we currently anticipate a tax provision rate of 8.4% due to the mix of worldwide income.
Turning now to capital spending.
Our capital expenditures totaled $55 million in 2011.
We are forecasting about $75 million of capital spending for 2012.
With our new low-cost capacity in place and our older facilities idled as part of our fixed cost reduction efforts we've been able to keep capital expenditures at a relatively low level for the past 3 years.
As noted our 2012 capital expenditures will be slightly higher in order to fund a number of projects that will generate both top line growth and incremental cost savings.
Finally as part of our strategy to diversify earnings by growing in select international markets we also plan to make investments in 2 of our foreign joint ventures that total $18 million and other opportunities of this type will be considered over time.
Regarding our cash and debt situation our December 31 cash cash equivalents and marketable securities balance excluding $1 million of restricted cash was $651 million compared with $677 million at the end of the third quarter and $907 million at the end of 2010.
We have nothing borrowed on our revolving credit facility.
When you add in the borrowing capacity on our credit lines we had total liquidity of $834 million.
Total debt as of December 31 was $2.3 billion essentially the same at the end of the third quarter as well as year-end 2010.
In addition we continue to have a number of initiatives around working capital management and further surplus asset sales.
We closed the $6.5 million sales of surplus real estate in the fourth quarter and we have another sale of $10 million under contract which is expected to close in the first quarter of 2012.
Let me conclude by emphasizing once again that job #1 at USG is to achieve a positive operating profit as soon as possible.
We will do this by continuing to focus on improving profitability and increasing our efficiencies while managing our balance sheet and liquidity.
As you can see in our results our restructuring actions are bearing fruit.
And we expect that this will be even more evident as 2012 unfolds.
After positive operating profit has been achieved we will then work toward achieving positive cash flow and positive net earnings.
As Jim likes to say we are eating this elephant one bite at a time.
Positive operating profit will be a big bite and that's our first goal but until USG has also achieved positive net earnings our work will not be done.
So our intense focus on profit margins costs and cash continues.
Now we will be happy to answer any questions you may have.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question is from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
So I was hoping you might be able to give us a little bit of an early indication on the effectiveness of the price increase so far for 2012.
And also in terms of the wallboard shipment volume during the quarter I was wondering how much of it you think was driven by pre-buying ahead of the increase? This is Jim Metcalf.
First on the pricing let me just kind of step back because I know there's probably quite a few questions on this so maybe we can handle this upfront.
Really middle of last year we were looking into 2012 and we didn't see really any positive uptick in demand.
So we really took a strategic view of what our pricing strategy should be going forward.
We had a lot of conversations with our customers.
We talked we spent a lot of time internally about what could we do differently.
And our pricing strategy we did take a different approach.
The first thing as you probably know is we made the decision we wanted to eliminate job quotes.
We felt and again with conversations with our customers that there weren't a lot of large jobs.
It was very inefficient from our standpoint and our customer standpoint from an administrative area and we felt that by eliminating that would really have clarity on what the true price is in the market.
The second thing we decided to do again we've been talking to our customers is they wanted some certainty as you look into the market.
So we made the decision to have one price that we would quote our customers for the year.
We've never done that before and we are going to quote one price for the year.
But with that is with a pretty substantial increase to cover any outlook in the market.
So it's really 3 areas: job quotes were eliminated which have been done; one price for the year which helps our customers plan for their business; and we gave each one of our customers their pricing in December for the year.
So that's kind of the reasons we went this avenue.
We feel that it's going to help our customers and it's going to help us.
And we're quite pleased with where we are in January.
As you know we don't give any prices until the end of the quarter.
But the prices have gone up significantly and we're pleased with the early results.
Research Division</strong> And what about -- in terms of the pre-buying as a portion of the total for the quarter? There was a little bit of pre-buying but what we did we took that opportunity in December to do some maintenance at our plants and get really finish up some end of the year things that we wanted to do at the plant.
So we really watched any big surge buying.
And actually what we did is we did not add any shifts or add any extra time we just ran per our logistics model.
And our customers we did not have any pre-buying.
The next question is from Kathryn Thompson from Thompson Research Group.
LLC.</strong> Along the lines with volumes.
Some of our checks are showing a drop off in demand in January.
What do you see in terms of your business? And then along with that you've talked a lot about fundamental changes at L&amp;W.
When will these translate to more meaningful profitable -- improvements in profitability? The -- we've been very fortunate Kathryn in January weather's been pretty good.
The volumes have been steady.
We haven't seen a drop-off.
And I think we just it's been fortunate because we've -- last year we had about 21 inches of snow in the Midwest.
So I think a lot of that is weather-related.
We watch our volumes every day and we're still balancing price and volume.
I mean this is a very tender market and our focus as Rick said in his prepared comments our #1 objective is profitability.
Along with that is the success of L&amp;W.
And we've made some significant changes at L&amp;W Supply.
And it's really been a major strategic shift for them.
L&amp;W's prime focus is on the value proposition for the commercial contractor.
We have a broad portfolio of steel insulation and wallboard.
And by separating operations from sales that's given us some great pricing discipline in the market.
We've strengthened our back office at L&amp;W reducing costs through consolidation and we really focused on the non-wallboard categories.
So really the -- we aren't going to be pleased until L&amp;W is profitable.
But we do have a line of sight and it's -- we're very focused that will -- I'm not giving a projection but L&amp;W has a line of sight to profitability.
It's really getting wallboard margins higher and we've had some great price improvement in L&amp;W on wallboard focus on the product categories of steel and insulation and continue to take costs out.
We're continuing to reduce cost at L&amp;W.
So it's kind of a 3-pronged approach.
And if I -- I'd like to say it's tomorrow they're going to be profitable.
I mean that's our objective.
But it's -- we do have a line of sight on that.
LLC.</strong> But I guess really kind of where I need a little bit of handholding is you had a nice increase in revenues but yet no real leaps or bounds or improvement in terms of operating margins.
So how do we reconcile and how do we think about that? Well if you take out that onetime -- if you're looking at year-on-year it was about an $8 million -- it's an $8 million variance.
If you take that onetime $8 million positive in the fourth quarter of last year you're going to see 7 quarters of improved -- decreased losses and improved results.
So I think you just have to look at each quarter the losses get lower and until we're breakeven.
The next question is from Jim Barrett from CL King &amp; Associates.
Inc.</strong> Jim could you talk about the lightweight joint compound? Is that meant to be margin enhancing? Or -- and will it be priced at the current joint compound price? How should we look at that? Thank you for bringing up our new product.
And as I said in our prepared comments this is an extension of our lightweight portfolio.
And we felt that we weren't going to just focus on DUROCK Next Gen which the growth has been really astounding there.
We're very pleased with the performance and what's been happening on our DUROCK category.
We've talked a lot about our wallboard UltraLight SHEETROCK UltraLight.
But we wanted to extend it to joint treatment.
As you know we have a strong market position in joint treatment.
And we did not want to rest on our laurels there.
We felt that we had to continue to innovate as we want to differentiate with our competition.
And this lightweight Jim is as I said 40% lighter.
When you think if you have a 5-gallon bucket which weighs about 60 pounds normal joint treatment this is 40% lighter.
That is a significant difference on the job site.
It's wonderful for our contractors on the productivity and workman's comp and it's something that the applicators have really been asking us for.
Absolutely it's a premium product.
It's sold at a premium.
And what's really most important about this our customers are going to be able to get a premium for this product as well.
So as I said we're introducing it this quarter.
It's still very very early but we wanted to just let you know that we're going to continue to innovate with the lightweight platform.
The next question is from Dan Oppenheim from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering a little bit more in terms of the international expenditure you talked about $18 million more into joint ventures.
How do you think about that expansion? And how rapidly would it be just thinking about funding for it in general? Well as we want to be very clear our international growth is very very important but it's very selective.
We want to be very surgical of where we're going to go and we want to go into markets where we can be a leader have critical mass.
And what I like to say is duplicate what we've done in Mexico.
We want to do it also in the -- have a realistic point of view that we're still losing money and we have to be very cognizant of our balance sheet.
So we're going to be very prudent on how much we spend and where.
And these are really priorities in the context of our CapEx our capital spending plan that Rick lined out for you.
So this -- as I said our vision diversifying our earnings is part of our long-term vision with international growth.
But we have to have a very disciplined approach of where we're going to invest and how much we're going to invest.
The good news is we have some very successful joint ventures throughout the world.
I mentioned one in Beijing.
We also have great joint ventures in Europe and the Middle East.
And what's nice about that is we can utilize our technology in some respects as currency.
So our partners really cherish what we bring to the party a lot of it is capital but a lot of it is our technology.
So we're going to walk before we run here but it's very important in the long term that we start putting flags down in strategic markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And secondly I guess you talked about the price increase and then it's going to be one price for the year.
But then also talking about how it's a still very difficult market and balancing price and volume.
And I guess when I think about balancing price and volume it would imply sort of being -- having -- adjusting a bit more as the year goes on in terms of the strategy there.
But talking about the certainty would suggest sort of one price.
How are you looking at that? And should we think more about that certainty on pricing or about that balance? Right now we have one price for the year.
We are not planning of moving the price down.
Our early response from our customers have been they prefer having the certainty.
If there would be some adjustments we have the opportunity to adjust up immediately which is nice about this.
We don't plan to do that but it does give that flexibility.
If the market would take off from a demand standpoint which we are anticipating it will this year we still think it's going to be a flat market.
It puts the cap on how high we can go but we have a significant increase to give us that flexibility.
So our plan is not to move the price down.
Let's -- one price for the year and we will -- we're going to run the business that way.
We are out of the job quote business.
The early reactions have been very very positive there.
And we think over the next quarter or 2 some of the protected work from last year that went into this year will start coming -- will start expiring.
So we feel that right now it's profitability first volume second.
And the next question is from Garik Shmois from Longbow Research.
Just given the initial success of the wallboard price increase here a month into it plus some of the initiatives you mentioned with respect to cost savings.
I mean do you think it's reasonable that you could return to operating profitability here in 2012 if the price increase ends up sticking through the balance of -- sticking throughout the balance of the year? Our #1 objective is operating profit as soon as possible.
And obviously getting significant price improvement is a way to get there.
It's also getting L&amp;W margins both on wallboard spread and complementary products going the right direction too.
So our objective is operating profit as soon as possible and that is one avenue to get there.
Okay.
And just to follow up real quick on L&amp;W strategy on pricing.
Is the strategy to get gross margin improvement as a result of L&amp;W's price increase? Or is it to pass-through simply one for one the price increase from the manufacturing arm? L&amp;W's objective is margin improvement in all categories including wallboard.
And the next question is from Joshua Pollard from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I would love to understand what portion of your business came in to 2012 job protected and where you expect those numbers to be as you get closer towards the end of the year? You just made a reference towards a smaller portion of your business being job protected.
But I really want to understand how much of your business is actually benefiting from the recent price increases? We don't disclose the percentage that's protected.
But it's an amount that will be coming off in the next quarter or 2.
And again let me reiterate those were jobs that were protected prior to us announcing the no job quote policy.
So you think that -- we announced that late in the fourth quarter so it's a small percentage that will start coming off.
But it will help on the realized price when those do expire.
So we'd anticipate by July we will have most of those behind us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is the way to think about it is that as you get towards the end of 2012 that your job protected portion will be 0? Pretty close to it if not 0.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as you guys make this push to profitability how much of this should come from additional cost cuts? I was just going through your SG&amp;A numbers for the last couple of years and you sort of been in this range of $70 million to $80 million.
And I'm wondering if there's another step function down that we should expect? This is Rick Fleming.
We are in the midst right now of looking at our entire organizational structure.
We've had a number of incremental adjustments in headcount and workforce.
And at some point it just makes good business sense and good sense to step back and look at your entire organization and consider opportunities such as one back office one shared service and also opportunities around the span of control.
That plan that master plan should be pretty much completed by the end of the first quarter and then there will be some opportunities we think we can identify as part of that.
I think we've alluded to you in the past that we're also in the midst of a lift and shift of some of our back office functions to a low-cost labor market.
In this case India.
So that will also be an opportunity.
So there's a number of initiatives more to come.
But we feel that we're -- we've got some opportunities that have yet to be tapped.
The next question is from Trey Grooms from Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rick one question for you on nat gas.
Can you give us an update kind of where you guys stand? I know you had a lot of your hedges legacy hedges rolling off can you just kind of give us an update on where all that stands now? Sure.
I'd be happy to Trey.
First of all let me mention that I think you are aware we are using a combination of options and swaps as our hedging activity.
Let me give you sort of how it breaks out in 2012.
We have about 38% of our gas purchases locked in right now pricing-wise at swaps.
About 8% of that 38% is at those old legacy swap levels which kind of date back to prior to the financial crisis.
8% of the buy is at higher numbers than market.
But the good news there is that this is the last year of legacy swaps.
30% of what's been locked in is about $3 a dekatherm.
Now if you step back then what that means is that 62% of the portfolio right now is floating and will benefit if gas prices go down.
But with the options we have which provide a cap 75% of the portfolio is protected if there is a spike in gas prices.
So we feel pretty good about it year-on-year just where the market is today and how the hedge program worked out.
We should have about $25 million less gas expense in 2012 than 2011.
And then I'll just mention that some -- people often ask "Well how do you compare to the market right now with the cost of your hedges in the mix?" And right now we're about $0.70 $0.68 over the forward curve right now.
And if you compare to spot we would be about basically $2.53 at spot.
And our price right now is north of $3.60 on a blended basis.
So that gives you a sense of how the program works.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes.
That's all very helpful.
And then just on the volume in the quarter.
Jim I think you mentioned that there was not any really measurable pre-buying I guess going on in the quarter.
But I mean volumes are very strong and I apologize if I missed something here in some of your prepared remarks.
But just really trying to figure out if there was no pre-buying is it all weather-related like you mentioned kind of some benefit in January? Or can you just help us kind of reconcile what's going on with the volume in the fourth quarter especially given your outlook for kind of a flattish year this year? Right right Trey.
Really the fourth quarter was the first time we saw maybe a little -- October typically is a strong month.
We haven't seen a seasonality in our business for 4 years.
So we have some good weather.
But quite frankly the success of UltraLight.
That has been a great innovation for our customers.
And we really -- it really outperformed our expectations throughout the year it was about 25% of our overall volume overall wallboard volume for the year.
But in the fourth quarter it was a higher percentage of volume.
So it was weather-related and we -- our UltraLight business really took hold.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Great.
And then I guess when you're talking about the flat volumes for this year outlook I guess is that more of kind of an overall kind of industry kind of outlook or not just necessarily specific to USG given the UltraLight product which I'm assuming is going to continue to take some share? Yes.
We -- yes that is an industry demand number where we look at a lot of different inputs.
Everyone knows where housing is going to be.
We're kind of at the low end of the range for housing.
And we're seeing maybe a little 1% to 2% uptick in commercial and R&amp;R.
1% commercial 2% R&amp;R or just flip them.
So really the area that's going to have any type of positive movement it will be R&amp;R and that's very insignificant.
We would rather plan for flat demand as an industry demand.
And we aren't waiting for the market to return to profitability.
And what we did is as a management team is as the market demand is going to be flat we need to get operating profit as soon as possible and we have to do it in this type of environment because no one knows how long the demand is going to be at this level.
So we're planning to be -- to get this place lower our breakeven and we've been committing to you each quarter that we're going to continue to lower that breakeven and we want to do it in the context without any help from the market.
I'll use Rick Fleming's term it's called self-help.
The next question is from Bob Wetenhall from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim you have used the language prices have increased significantly and I was hoping you could provide a little context.
Is that high-single digits or low teens? Could you give us a little color? Bob I'm kind of smiling because I can't give you a projection.
But I would say significantly and you can see where our pricing has been going throughout the last couple of years.
So early returns are positive.
We've had -- our customers have the prices locked in.
We're out of the job quote business and stay tuned for the first quarter results.
We'll be able to let you know that.
But I will tell you this we are pleased with where we are in January.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
For Rick a little housekeeping.
What was cash flow for operations for the full year? And I know you guys are trying to move heaven and earth to get to breakeven profitability.
How much leverage is there in SG&amp;A this year? Can you go from $300 million to $290 million? Or what kind of pull do you have on that given your lift and shift efforts? Yes sure.
Well first of all the cash usage for the full year was $256 million.
The biggest component of that was the cash interest which as you know is about $195 million less the interest income.
The overall burn in the fourth quarter was reduced substantially to $26 million part of that was working capital liquidation.
But nonetheless that compares to $48 million burn in the third quarter.
So we're pleased with that performance.
I do ought to caution people that the first quarter of the new year is always the heavy quarter in terms of cash usage as we rebuild working capital.
In some years sometimes we have almost 40% to 50% of our cash usage for the full year in the first quarter.
So just as you think about seasonality please keep that in mind.
On the issue of the SG&amp;A target we really have a lot of internal dialogue around that and we'll be setting that target as part of the study.
So I'm not going to give you a number right now.
But I did indicate that we right now are back to 2002 SG&amp;A levels.
Gosh we'd actually like to bring that back to something earlier than 2002 and we think we have opportunities to do it.
So you can look at our history and you can probably get a sense of what we're shooting for.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And if I can just sneak one question in to what Jim was saying about flat outlook for volume for the industry.
Do you see any capacity coming out this year? Just speaking from our standpoint Bob we're always looking at our logistics model and where we can take either capacity out or how our overall supply -- or excuse me our shipments look.
I will tell you that this is coming -- the market right now it's a very uneven market.
We're busier in some parts of the country particularly in the Northeast than we are in the far west.
So right now our logistics is balanced for what we have in the market.
We are not planning on taking any capacity out at this point.
We do always have a contingency plan.
If the market goes down which we need to be prepared for that we would have -- we would know what capacity we would take out.
But it's not of a significant amount.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you see your competitors taking out capacity? You're just going to -- you're going to have to ask them.
The next question is from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly I guess.
Can you just remind us what your capacity utilization rate was for the fourth quarter? We were just under 50%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess bigger picture here.
You generate more revenue from ceilings than you do from wallboard and you had some pretty solid growth figures there both internationally and domestically.
So I was hoping you can maybe talk a little about what you're seeing on the volume side specifically volume for ceilings both here and abroad? The Ceilings business as we've said we're very pleased with the results.
We've been going through a pretty tough commercial market the last 4 years.
But as we talked in previous calls Dennis that we really refocused our organization on the repair and remodel segment on the big-box segment.
And I'm really proud of the work that's been done with our sales professionals throughout North America and the world.
Really the key to ceilings and the operating profit that you're seeing is staying ahead of the steel increases on our grid business.
Everything -- there hasn't -- from a volume standpoint it's been flat at best.
Ceiling tile grid and I mean up a little here and there.
But really the key is as long as we can stay ahead of raw steel increases and getting the margin on grid that is really the key to our Ceilings business both here and internationally.
We don't have a large footprint in Europe so that does not going to have a big impact there.
Really in our Worldwide Ceilings business is really our North American Ceilings business and what we're doing in the far east.
So there's great opportunities for us with our joint venture in Beijing.
We have some really exciting plans for our Ceilings business over there.
But the key is we're still expecting volumes with commercial and even commercial R&amp;R volumes they're still going to be relatively flat from an opportunity standpoint.
Research Division</strong> The fourth quarter or the revenue growth was entirely steel pricing or there was some volume on one side or the other? Pretty much it was grid pricing and not a lot of volume.
The next question is from Jack Kasprzak from BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> You guys made comments about the market being flat this year but there do seem to be some signs of a little better activity in terms of housing some of the homebuilders orders have been up lately.
Are you still seeing a flat market despite that just because it's early in the year or are you just not seeing really any pickup yet? Can you give us some color on the kind of full year outlook? We've had numerous discussions about that internally and we've been 0 for 4 on where we think the markets been the last 4 years.
So we are going to take a very pessimistic approach on demand.
And we're surprised a little bit it's not going to be -- you're not going to see demand tick up to any great extent.
If you look at the metrics for every 100 000 housing starts there's about 800 million feet of overall industry demand.
So kind of pick your number on housing and use that every 100 000 starts if you think housing is going to be up 100 000 or so it's about 800 million.
And that's for the entire industry.
So we don't see any signs -- there may be a little bit of positive signs out there from a housing standpoint but until we get some job creation we just don't see it in housing.
And really our biggest footprint is repair and remodel.
And there are some positive signs particularly in the big-box retailers.
We're seeing some positive comp store sales there which is very exciting for us.
But again we're still in a pretty soft market here over the next 12 months.
The next question is from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
Historically there's often been fairly big differences regionally what's going on pricing-wise et cetera.
Now you've obviously come into this year with a whole different approach to the market getting with the job quote et cetera.
Is it also different in as much as there is much more of a single national way of going about things or are regional differences still present in the way they historically were? Well as I mentioned demand is always going to come back or we're seeing it come back in a very regional approach.
You're still going to have your issues in Florida and Nevada and Arizona from a demand standpoint.
But we sit down with each one of our customers directly.
And one of the great things about that is with our national and nationwide footprint of sales professionals we can go out and have those individual conversations with the customers.
So it is a regional business but we're coming at this from a nationwide standpoint.
We're out of the job quote business that's a national policy.
We have one price in the market that's a national policy.
And the third area we have a significant increase and that's a national policy but it's handled customer by customer.
Okay.
And second on the UltraLight where you discussed about the success in that that's terrific.
What I struggled a little bit is if I look at your overall shipments they haven't outpaced the industry.
And what do you -- so obviously something else has offset the gains you've been making in UltraLight.
Have you effectively been gaining UltraLight with your existing customer base but not so much getting new customers? And maybe when you talk about 4Q looking better are we just beginning to see you have success with new customers? Maybe a little bit more color if you could to explain why the success in UltraLight at least up until now hasn't translated into overall market share recovery.
Well UltraLight has been a -- it's part of our value proposition of margin improvement not market share.
And UltraLight if you look at our fourth quarter volume it was over 50% of our half-inch volume.
But there are some segments and there are some customers that we quite frankly pulled away from.
And it was unprofitable business or it didn't align with our value proposition.
So UltraLight growth really started accelerating in the second half of the year.
If you look at our overall volume as a company we were down as a company in the first half of the year with a slight comeback as Rick said we were basically flat from a shipment standpoint.
UltraLight and I've said this in previous calls that the success of UltraLight you're going to see our realized selling price go up when there's not a price increase.
So if you look at the third Q average price which was around $111 and you look at the fourth Q average price the majority of that price lift was selling more UltraLight at a premium.
So this is not a market share grab this is a value proposition for us.
And we're replacing higher-margin products for lower-margin segments.
Along with this we're being very surgical of who markets UltraLight.
We want to market UltraLight with our customers that share our value proposition that will go into the market and sell UltraLight at a premium.
So not every customer in the market will be buying UltraLight.
We have a policy similar to what we do with ceiling tiles.
We sit down and if the 2 companies share value proposition then we will be providing them UltraLight.
So stay tuned.
It is -- again it's a product that our customers are asking for and what's nice about it our customers are selling it at a premium.
Okay great.
I do I look forward to further conversations on it.
And just one last real quick one.
Pension is that why the book value went lower beyond just the earnings? And can you guys give us an update on where the underfunded status is at the end of the quarter? I'd be happy to and you've touched on an issue that we think a lot about.
But let me mention that our pension plan was fully funded as of June 30 on a PPA basis and also on an ABO basis.
And then we had Operation Twist and the drop in rates in the second half of the year particularly in the fourth quarter.
So not only USG but Pension America has been impacted by the -- in particular the fed policy.
Clearly the year wasn't the greatest investment year.
We didn't earn our 7% but we weren't dramatically below 0% either.
So the return was not the lion's share but it's really the interest rate situation that drove the calculus on the pension liability.
Just to give you the numbers.
If you did an ABO calculation at year end we are just about 80% funded using that metric.
If you did a PBO calculation which takes in account salary increases not yet granted but that's how the accountants think about it it would have been 72% funded.
These are accounting metrics.
The key thing for funding purposes however is the PPA calculus and there -- -- because you do get some limited interest rates moving meaning that the drop in rates in the second half of the year didn't have its full impact as it does in the accounting mark-to-market we would have been north of 90% funded and without excluding once again would have been about 80% funded.
So interest rates go down interest rates go up.
We expect that some of that will over time just be adjusted by market action.
But to give you a sense of how we're thinking about the cash increases or pension funding going into 2012 we'll probably take what have been about a $40 million cash contribution for the domestic plan and move it to $50 million just given the movement in rates.
And then worldwide we have another $16 million so probably about $66 million of pension contributions for the global enterprise in 2012.
And we'll be recalibrating that guidance as we get the final numbers for the year.
But -- and give update at the first quarter but that's our current thinking.
Very helpful.
And just last do you happen to have real handy the -- what the underfunded total? I know it's all accounting but what the underfunded total was at the end of the year? Sure.
Let me get that for you.
Bear with me a second.
It was per the accounting calculation negative $369 million.
That compared to $158 million last year so you can see what the interest rates did.
The last question would be from Todd Vencil from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> On the joint compound the lightweight joint compound that you mentioned can you talk about what your share is in the joint compound market? And is that a market share play or is that a profitability play as well? I think you are talking about our joint treatment.
We have a very significant market share which we don't disclose in joint treatment.
But it is higher in some areas of the country particularly in the Northeast.
So in the Northeast it's very hard to find a bucket that doesn't have our green lid.
So no this is really adding on to our platform of innovation and really listening to our customers about what they need and that the next step change.
And they're very concerned about productivity labor rates are quite high and to help our customers become more profitable this is a product that they have asked us to come up with.
And it took some time to do but our people at research worked very hard with the field of coming up with the product that is significantly lighter and has great performance characteristics.
The way it performs from a glide standpoint which is one of the terms our applicators use is -- has been -- the early trials have been very very significant.
And it is sold as a price premium.
So this is to continue the leadership of our joint treatment share which I said is significant.
And we do not want the rest on the laurels that we have a large market share and we're going to be fine.
So this continues to differentiate us through innovation.
Thank you all for your questions.
Jim I think you have some closing remarks.
Yes.
And thank you I appreciate all the questions and interest you have on USG.
And as we've talked a little bit this morning we truly believe that we're entering 2012 with very modest expectations as far as the market conditions are concerned.
Our primary U.S.
market is still going to be soft.
We're looking at industry shipments that are basically half of where they were 5 or 6 years ago.
The actions that we've taken though throughout this recession we believe have strengthened our core businesses we've significantly lowered our breakeven and most importantly we're positioning USG as a stronger company.
We can see improvements throughout the company and we've touched on a few of those this morning.
Our SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight has outperformed all of our expectations accounting for over 25% of the entire wallboard volume we shipped in the United States.
Our Ceiling business continues to post excellent results.
Worldwide Ceilings increased operating profit by over 20% in 2011.
And as Rick had indicated USG Interiors recorded its highest operating profit in more than 10 years.
The restructuring at L&amp;W's is producing positive results.
We still have a loss we are not happy with the losses but the losses have been reduced for 7 consecutive quarters and we still have some work to do but we do have a line of sight on profitability for L&amp;W.
And then finally USG Mexico.
Their operating profit improved over 45% in 2011.
So we're starting to see some significant results.
But these are just a few of the many accomplishments that you've seen in the difficult market.
As I've mentioned our management team and our professionals throughout the corporation throughout the world are very aligned very focused on profitability growing USG.
We remain confident that by executing the strategy that I articulated earlier of strengthening the core diversifying the earnings and differentiating through innovation we will return USG to profitability and generate attractive returns for our shareholders.
Thank you very much for your time and attention this morning and we will talk to you next quarter.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Friday February 10.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the USG Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Monica and I will be the moderator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ken Banas.
Mr.
Banas you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call and Live Webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management’s current views and assumptions of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
With me today to discuss our results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rick Fleming Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Rick will then review the financial results for the quarter for the corporation and the business segments.
We'll then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
[Operator Instructions] Jim? Thank you Ken and good morning and thank you for joining us.
As always we appreciate your interest in USG.
Today I've several areas I'd like to discuss with you starting with an executive management transition that's currently underway.
Rick Fleming who's been with USG for more than 30 years has elected to retire later this year.
Rick has served as our CFO for the last 20 years and has done a brilliant job developing financial strategies in all kinds of markets from rapid growth to sharp contractions.
I'm sure many of you this morning who know Rick share my admiration for his sharp intellect calm demeanor and his thoughtful personality.
Speaking for everyone at USG Rick I'd like to say you'll be greatly missed.
While we'll all miss Rick we're very excited to welcome Matt Hilzinger who will become our CFO on May 1.
Matt comes to us from the Exelon Corporation where he was Chief Financial Officer.
Matt is a very experienced financial executive who I'm confident will make great contributions to USG in the years ahead.
Many of you already know Matt and we're planning our Investor Relations schedule to create opportunities for you to see him again.
I feel very fortunate to work with 2 of the top financial leaders around.
Now turning to operations.
We had some encouraging trends in the first quarter.
Operating safely focusing on our customers and lowering our breakeven have been some of our key actions.
We recorded an operating profit in the quarter which I've said on previous calls is our main focus even with little help from market demand.
Operating profit is just the first step towards positive earnings and cash flow.
And one quarter certainly doesn't make a trend but I feel this is a very important milestone for us.
Our people at USG throughout manufacturing distribution sales and all the staff units have worked very very hard to get to this point.
And I'd really like to take this time to congratulate every USG person on their efforts.
There are a number of areas that contributed to our improved performance.
Our market-leading lightweight products led by SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight Panels and our new UltraLight joint treatment are performing very well profitably growing the category and helping our customers with innovative new products.
Another contributor to the first quarter results was our new pricing strategy that eliminated wallboard job quotes.
It also established a single price for the year which gave greater price certainty to our customers.
Both U.S.
Gypsum and L&amp;W Supply achieved improved margins in this category.
In addition we believe the market in the U.S.
improved modestly led by Residential Repair and Remodel which was up approximately 10%.
Now this segment is where we are well positioned with our big-box customers and our shipments improved compared to both last year and the fourth quarter.
These results continue to support our focus on innovation and providing our customers with value-added solutions.
Other areas of the company had solid performances as well.
L&amp;W Supply continues to makes great strides improvements coming from all product categories.
The significant organizational changes that were implemented last year are proving to be very very effective.
L&amp;W is focused on the commercial contractor providing value on core products like steel installation and ceilings and a sharp focus on margin improvement through efficiencies in the operations.
I'm very confident that L&amp;W is on the right track.
Our Ceilings unit has been a bright spot throughout the recession and performed well in the quarter.
With the strategy of margin improvement and shifting our sales focus from new commercial work which has been relatively flat to repair and remodel has been very successful for our Ceilings business.
In addition the Ceilings unit has focused on high performance panels which differentiates us in the market and adds to both revenue and profitability.
Moving beyond Ceilings our other units had solid performance including Substrates and Surfaces.
One highlight for our Surfaces businesses is our national rollout of our new lightweight joint treatment which is 40% lighter.
All international operations are off to a good start in 2012 Canada; Mexico Europe and Latin America were all profitable at levels comparable to last year.
In addition to the operating highlights in the quarter we continued to derisk our balance sheet.
We executed 2 financial transactions to improve our near-term liquidity and position for the future.
We raised $250 million and used a portion of that amount to repurchase some of the bonds that mature in 2014.
Rick will go into detail in a moment but our goal here is to refinance a substantial portion of the 2014 with a longer maturity and a lower coupon.
All-in-all a successful transaction will further increase our financial flexibility.
So in conclusion the first quarter was a solid start to 2012 but we are still operating a very weak market condition.
Our focus continues to be on our strategic priorities that we've talked to you in previous quarters 3 areas: strengthening the core business which is North American manufacturing and distribution.
Strengthening the core we're showing progress with operating profit in the quarter; second diversifying our earnings.
Diversifying our earnings through product adjacencies like SECUROCK substrates and commercial roofing; third differentiate through innovation.
We've been doing this by extending our success on another new product UltraLightweight joint treatment.
Clearly this is one of the best quarters we've had in a long time but I'll tell you we still have work to do.
But we're on the right track and we're on the right track with our plan to win.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick who will give you some detail on the quarter.
Thanks Jim and thank you for those very kind remarks and good morning to all of you on the call.
As Jim mentioned I'll recap our first quarter results and provide some additional details on interest expense taxes capital expenditures debt and liquidity.
First quarter 2012 net sales were $812 million up 12.6% from the first quarter of last year.
Our first quarter operating profit was $27 million which included $2 million in restructuring charges for U.S.
Gypsum related to severance costs associated with last year's fourth quarter voluntary workforce reduction as well as miscellaneous exit costs related to production facility shutdowns in prior years.
This compares to an operating loss of $58 million in the first quarter of 2011.
This $85 million improvement year-on-year is due in part to improved wallboard gross profits which benefited from higher wallboard prices lower unit cost and higher volume this year versus the first quarter of last year.
Also L&amp;W improved its operating loss by $16 million this quarter versus the first quarter of last year due to better wallboard spreads higher non-wallboard product sales and reduced operating expenses.
And USG Interiors had a $5 million improvement in operating profit due to both top line growth and margin improvement.
In addition overhead was down $4 million due in large part to our efforts to improve efficiencies and reduce costs.
Finally restructuring and asset impairment charges was $7 million less than the first quarter of 2012 versus the same quarter in 2011.
So given all the above our incremental operating profit in the first quarter of 2012 versus the first quarter of 2011 was $85 million on $91 million of increased sales resulting in an incremental margin of 93% including restructuring charges and 86% excluding restructuring charges.
First quarter 2012 net loss after-tax was $27 million or a $0.26 per share loss.
This compares to a first quarter loss last year of $105 million or a loss of $1.01 per share.
I'll now provide a little more detail on our first quarter segment results.
In our North American Gypsum segment net sales increased 16.8% to $486 million for the quarter and operating profit was $32 million versus an operating loss last year of $29 million.
These results reflect an improvement in U.S.
wallboard volume prices and costs as well as a $5 million reduction in restructuring charges.
Our U.S.
Wallboard business shipped 1.16 billion square feet in the quarter an increase of 6% compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
The weather was mild in the first quarter this year and we also benefited from increased market acceptance of USG SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight Panels.
UltraLight Panels were 41% of U.S.
Gypsum's wallboard shipments in the first quarter of 2012 versus 38% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Average selling prices in the first quarter were up year-on-year with an average realized price for the 2012 first quarter of $130.43 per MSF compared to $109.15 per MSF in the first quarter of 2011.
As you can see the new pricing strategy has been highly effective and the full expiration of the 2011 job quotes during the remainder of this year is expected to continue to positively impact wallboard prices.
We remain committed to this new pricing approach.
U.S.
Gypsum's operating profit improvement in the first quarter of 2012 also benefited from higher sales and gross profits with joint compound and DUROCK.
In fact joint compound gross margins in March were the highest since October 2009 due to higher volume higher prices and lower costs.
Also SHEETROCK UltraLightweight All Purpose Joint Compound is just now rolling out nationally and this new product introduction should further add to our positive momentum in this product category during the balance of 2012.
Our Building Products Distribution business continues to make strides towards profitability.
Net sales increased to $270 million for the first quarter of 2012 an 11% increase year-on-year.
The operating loss in this year's first quarter decreased to $6 million from $22 million one year ago.
As a result L&amp;W's operating loss continued to improve year-on-year for the eighth consecutive quarter excluding onetime litigation settlements.
The changes that have been implemented at L&amp;W are substantial from supply chain initiatives to a heightened focus on the commercial contractor to the way we have separated the sales functions from the operations at the branches.
We are pleased with L&amp;W's progress and we expect to see continued improvement.
The increase in sales at L&amp;W in the first quarter of this year was driven by higher wallboard prices and by increased sales of their non-wallboard products.
Wallboard volume was down year-on-year by 3.1%.
But this is offset by a 15.2% improvement in wallboard price.
Price increases above cost increases have boosted L&amp;W's wallboard spread resulting in very positive year-on-year comparisons.
And construction metal products and ceiling products had sales increases of 15.8% and 7.7% respectively in the first quarter.
Turning to Worldwide Ceilings.
Our Ceilings business continues to deliver excellent results.
Worldwide Ceilings had increases in both net sales and operating profit in the first quarter despite the continued soft market conditions for new commercial construction.
First quarter net sales for Worldwide Ceilings increased by $6 million to $183 million and the first quarter segment operating profit was $29 million a $3 million increase from last year's operating profit of $26 million.
And importantly the largest business unit in this segment USG Interiors continued to have strong earnings.
And these results were driven by strong grid margins due to both manufacturing efficiencies and strategic pricing actions that offset steel cost increases as well as higher tile margins due to price improvement.
Now I’ll add some details on the P&amp;L and discuss what we have been doing to manage capital spending and our balance sheet including liquidity.
I will start with overhead.
We have continued to contain our selling and administrative or SG&amp;A expenses.
In the first quarter of 2012 SG&amp;A was $81 million versus $85 million last year.
And as a percentage of net sales SG&amp;A was 10% in the first quarter of 2012 compared to 11.8% in the first quarter of last year.
The improvement in the first quarter of 2012 reflects the voluntary workforce reduction we implemented late last year and lower retiree medical and long-term incentive plan expenses.
We continue to hold SG&amp;A expenses at 2002 levels and we have a number of initiatives to further improve our efficiencies in this area.
Now I'll turn to interest expense.
Interest expense is $52 million the same as last year's first quarter.
For all of 2012 we expect that our P&amp;L and cash interest expense will be $215 million and $205 million respectively taking into account our recent bond issuance and the retirement of our 9.75% bonds due in 2014 that were tendered.
Regarding the recent bond tender offer we also take a special charge in the second quarter of $18 million with the early extinguishment of the $118 million of the 2014 bonds that were tendered.
Regarding taxes as you may recall we presently have a full valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets of the majority of our operations.
And as a result our effective book tax rate continues to be minimal.
The tax provision rate in the first quarter of 2012 was approximately 8%.
Looking ahead to the full year of 2012 we currently anticipate that our tax provision which relates primarily to foreign taxes will be about $14 million to $18 million both on a book and cash tax basis depending upon the mix of worldwide income.
Turning now to capital spending.
Capital expenditures totaled $14 million in the first quarter and we are forecasting about $75 million of capital spending for the full year of 2012.
With our newer low-cost capacity in place and our order facilities idled as part of our fixed cost reduction efforts we've been able to keep capital expenditures at a relatively low level for the past 3 years.
As noted our 2012 capital expenditures will be slightly higher than last year in order to fund a number of projects that will generate both top line growth and incremental cost savings.
Finally as part of our strategy to diversify earnings by growing in select international markets we also plan to make approximately $60 million of loans and investments in foreign joint ventures and $7 million of this amount has already been completed.
As previously announced we expect to fund a substantial portion of the joint venture expenditures through surplus asset sales and other divestments.
Regarding our cash and debt situation on March 31 cash cash equivalents and marketable securities excluding $1 million of restricted cash was $608 million compared to $651 million at the end of the fourth quarter.
We have nothing borrowed on our revolving credit facility.
When you add in the borrowing capacity on our credit lines we have total liquidity as of March 31 2012 of $827 million compared to $834 million at year-end 2011.
Total debt as of March 31 was $2.3 billion the same as the end of last year.
This level of debt does not reflect our recent $250 million financing and repurchase of $118 million of our bonds due in 2014 in our tender offer as this transaction did not close until April 12.
In addition we continue to have a number of initiatives around working capital management and further surplus asset sales.
We closed a $10 million sale of surplus real estate in the first quarter.
And as noted we are working on further potential surplus asset sales and other divestments.
Let me conclude by saying that we are extremely pleased to have achieved an operating profit in the first quarter of 2012.
This is our first quarterly operating profit since the third quarter of 2007 and is evidence that our restructuring actions are bearing fruit.
Now our attention turns to achieving positive cash flow and net earnings.
As such our intense focus on profit margins cost and cash continues.
Finally I'd like to say that it has been my privilege and honor to have been the CFO of this fine company for almost 2 decades.
Our outlook is bright and I'm extremely pleased that Matt Hilzinger is my successor.
At this time we'll be happy to answer any questions you may have.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Rick best of luck.
It was a pleasure working with you.
First question on the North American and particularly the U.S.
Gypsum company margins.
Great results obviously much better than we were looking for and probably the Street overall.
I was hoping to get a sense for -- in terms of thinking about that improvement on a year-over-year basis if you're able to kind of give us a sense how much was from pricing and volume versus other operational or efficiency type of improvements and if we can expect those to be sustainable going forward? Michael thank you for the question.
We're really proud of the first quarter results because this is across-the-board.
We had a volume lift and that's really attributed to UltraLight.
Our strategy as we've talked in the past has been to grow the business through value creation and not price.
So innovation’s very important.
We obviously were very pleased with the lift we got on pricing.
As you know we have -- we're going to have one price for the year and get out-of-the-job quote business.
And we've done a phenomenal job and I'm very proud of our manufacturing team from running these plants these very low-cost high-efficient plants very very well.
So it's really price volume and cost but we've also on the North American Gypsum we were tackling and continue to tackle lowering our breakeven.
So it's really across-the-board from the back office to volume price and cost.
And if you look at the North American results as well as Rick talked about in his prepared comments our joint treatment business was strong our DUROCK business was strong.
So really it was across-the-board and our focus -- as I said one quarter doesn't make a trend but we're going to continue to add value for our customers continue to lower cost and get price appreciation as aggressively as we can.
Research Division</strong> Well I appreciate that.
Is there any way to just give us a little bit more on a granular basis what were the -- how much each of those buckets contributed to the improvement in terms of price volume and operational or efficiency improvements? Well the 2 big buckets obviously the first bucket is price and the other bucket is cost.
And as you know we don't disclose our cost.
And you have -- we had a little bit of a volume lift.
But really it was the spread on the margin on the cost and the price.
You saw our price.
We ended the quarter just north of $130.
Michael it's Rick.
I would simply add and I don't want to give you too much granularity here on the cost side but let me just say we're very proud of the fact that in the equation in the calculus for this quarter is the fact that our fixed costs in the making of wallboard were down 20%.
I think that's evidence of the overall work we've been doing to reduce fixed costs.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
Second question on the Ceilings also a nice upside breaking out in the USG Interiors over 19%.
Is that something that you see sustainable? Were there any kind of onetime benefits or sort of a positive price versus material cost type of spread? Or how should we think about that going forward? For the Ceilings business and we've been pretty consistent over the last really through this recession as we have a focus on the Commercial Repair and Remodel business focus on the big-box.
But also it is a margin improvement.
And really it's staying ahead of your steel costs.
We really focused on what's happening with raw steel and making sure that our pricing in the market is ahead of that.
But quite frankly in this last quarter it was our margin improvement on ceiling tile.
We're continuing to get price improvement on ceiling tile but the same thing as we talked about on the fixed side that Rick alluded to on the wallboard side we're really focusing on the efficiencies of our ceiling tile business.
We're also focused Michael on the high-end performance areas.
Those are the high-end non-commodity tile which have a larger margin and -- because those are more customized ceilings.
So our ceiling strategy will continue to be margin improvement not market share.
We're very focused on providing value to our customers and focusing on our distribution.
So we're -- we'll continue to be pleasantly surprised.
And the Ceilings business has been a great business unit through this terrible recession and we're expecting continued positive results there.
Our next question comes from Dan Oppenheim of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering in terms of the L&amp;W business -- good to see the continued efforts there how much of the restructuring and the efforts that you're doing there are coming through in terms of sort of in the run rate of results right now? How much do you think is still to come? When do you think we'll see that just in terms of a little more color on that? I'll make a couple of comments and Rick will give you some specifics.
But when we stepped back 18 months ago we really turned the L&amp;W organization upside down.
We looked at how we go to market where pricing authority is.
As Rick alluded to we separated sales from operations.
We paired our branches.
We took out approximately 110 branches.
But most importantly we're thinking differently about the business.
It is a -- we're focused on margins.
We're focused on where our value is.
And our value at L&amp;W is a commercial contractor and providing service stocking large commercial jobs.
We aren't just a wallboard distributor.
We have 7 core product areas.
The performance really in the first quarter the positive performance in L&amp;W was margins improvement spread on wallboard.
They got tremendous amount of price improvement on wallboard in the market.
But it's also the other areas: it was steel; it was insulation; it was ceiling tile to really focus on those areas.
We're continuing to lower the breakeven of L&amp;W.
As you can see a $6 million loss in the first quarter and we've had consecutive run.
But we feel that the leverage at L&amp;W is going to be tremendous when the market starts to turn.
Yes.
And I think Jim summed it up very well.
It's particularly noted I think that L&amp;W did not get a volume lift in wallboard in the first quarter.
It was all price-out and spread improvement on the wallboard side.
We did get a volume lift on ceilings and on construction metals.
So in that regard we feel pretty good about the results.
It's more balanced in the P&amp;L than it perhaps has been historically.
There is more heavy lifting to do.
We're not effectively at our goal yet of getting L&amp;W in the black.
But plans are in place.
We're marching toward that goal and more to come.
Our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson of Thompson Research.
LLC.</strong> The question is on pricing.
Is it a correct assumption that you have legacy job quotes in the next -- during Q1? And that you didn't see the full impact to pricing in the quarter because of this? And along with that when do you think these legacy jobs quotes will roll off more meaningfully if there are legacy job quotes in Q1? Yes Kathryn there -- that is correct.
We do have legacy quotes in the market.
If you recall we announced our no-job-quote policy late third quarter early fourth quarter.
So we quoted large commercial jobs basically 3 quarters of last year.
So there are -- those legacy quotes will start coming off as we roll into -- further into this year and we would expect by probably end of the third quarter most of those will be extinguished.
LLC.</strong> Great.
And final question is could you give a little bit more color on wallboard market share gains in the quarter? It looks like you may have gained some share according to our checks.
How much is new product versus anything else that we should take into consideration? Well I just want to just make a really key point here.
Our goal is to grow our business through value creation and not price.
And as you've heard our strategy the last few years we're always balancing price and volume.
So what we're looking at is any type of share gains that you will see is really in a couple areas.
First is UltraLight.
41% of our overall shipments were UltraLight.
And that is as part of our strategy is differentiated through innovation.
And we believe we have a product -- we know we have a product that our customers are very very excited about so UltraLight.
The second area is we are strongly positioned with the big-box retailers.
We have a strong position there.
And if you look at the part of the market that's growing at this point it’s that residential repair and remodel.
The comp store sales at both the large big-box retailers are very very strong.
And we have a very strong position there.
A third area is we're very well positioned in the Northeast.
And the Northeast is one of the stronger areas.
And our company is positioned very very well not only nationally but we have a strong position with one of our new plants in Washingtonville Pennsylvania.
So we're pleased with the -- our volume increase.
But at the end of the day this is about margin improvement.
We aren't out of the woods yet.
Operating profit is great but we're on the path that this company's had positive net earnings and do that by growing our spread and our margins.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois of Longbow Research.
Congratulations Rick on your retirement and best of luck.
I just have a question; just have a follow-up on the previous question just to dig in a little bit deeper on what contributed to the volume lift in wallboard.
And I guess I'm looking at L&amp;W you mentioned the volumes were down in the quarter about 3% but your volumes out of U.S.
Gypsum were up 17%.
Just trying to understand the discrepancy a little bit more.
Jim you mentioned there was UltraLight contributing to that big boxes some geographic positioning contributing to it.
But I'm just curious if you could talk maybe a little bit more as to what contributed to the discrepancy? And then maybe as a follow-up if you could talk about inventories at L&amp;W and if there was any inventory build in the quarter distribution.
Yes really the difference -- L&amp;W the volume being down about 3% margin's up is really the repositioning of L&amp;W to commercial business.
As we all know the commercial business is flat at best.
There's about a 12- to 18-month lag in the business.
And along with that part of the strategy is L&amp;W has given up market share to improve margins.
And that is a -- it's very new in the last 12 months.
That's why you see the results coming through and it's really the focus on the areas where they provide value.
So the residential and R&amp;R business is not a big component of L&amp;W's portfolio.
If you look at the volume increase at U.S.
Gypsum it is attributed really to 2 areas it's UltraLight and our position in the big-box retailers and it's also other independent customers who want UltraLight.
We have a great product here and this is a differentiating product.
We haven't done it by price.
There are customers -- and our strategy is not just to sell the big-box retailer in L&amp;W.
There are very very good strong independent distributors out there that understand our value that really want a product that they can take to their contractors and differentiate.
And quite frankly with the rollout of UltraLight 5/8 30 and 5/8 X it provides us an entrée for some of our other customers to get into some commercial work.
So we're really pleased with being able to expand our customer base but to do it not on price but to do it on innovation and a value-added product.
And let me just mention on L&amp;W working capital our focus on their performance is not just on the P&amp;L.
They've done a terrific job improving their balance sheet.
Their DSO year-on-year is down roughly 4 days from 55 days to 50.9.
And then secondarily their inventories were only up $7 million but their churn was better at $7.1 million.
Okay that's helpful.
And just a quick follow-up do you have any approximation as to how much of your volumes went into repair and remodel versus the new residential versus commercial construction in the quarter? It really didn't change.
Repair and remodel residential as a market was up about 10%.
But our portfolio basically is repair and remodel both commercial and residential is just north of 50% of our revenue.
So it probably didn't change -- slightly for the quarter.
The other thing is we did have a mild weather and in areas that the last year where we're positioned very strong in Northeast basically we lost 6 days in the month of February.
We couldn't ship anything.
So -- but really if you're trying to correlate a big delta in the first quarter it might have been slightly repair and remodel.
But this is the season.
There is some seasonality in the big box.
The first quarter is a strong quarter for big-box building materials.
And then in the second quarter it will taper off.
So we're expecting volumes to taper off in the second quarter of our position in the big box.
Our next question comes from Jim Barrett of CL King &amp; Associates.
Inc.</strong> Rick congratulations on your pending retirement.
And I do have a question for you.
Your March 20 press release indicated the company made $5.7 million in Jan-Feb company earned $27 million in the quarter.
Should I extrapolate that earnings on a GAAP basis were $21 million in March? And was there anything in that number that's noteworthy? Jim the math is the math.
And you are obviously calculating the fact that we had positive net earnings in March.
We are cautious and we're basically saying one month does not the year make but that's the math.
Our next question comes from Trey Grooms of Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations Rick.
Could you -- is there any way to kind of quantify or give us some idea kind of how to think about the impact that these longer-term kind of legacy contracts might have had on pricing in the quarter? And as the year kind of rolls -- or as these contracts kind of roll off through the year any way to kind of think about the magnitude of change that we could see as a result of that? Well Trey I'm always very consistent about giving you forward-looking price.
But the kind of -- I'll give you -- each quarter will -- they'll start rolling off.
It's not a large percentage.
We think we'll see some lift but we're -- this was a very significant change in the industry.
We felt that giving one price to our customers it provides them certainty.
It takes out a lot of efficiencies.
And quite frankly it took out some bad habits that I think are positive for our business.
So we think we'll see some lift going forward but I'm not prepared to comment on putting that in the model at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Other question I guess is just kind of on UltraLight.
41% of shipments now are UltraLight.
Do you know where that was one year ago the percentage of shipments? It was probably I'm guessing it was probably about half of that.
Yes.
For all of 2011 it was 25%; fourth quarter it was 38%; now 41%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as far as -- on UltraLight and when you guys you obviously announced price increases January 1 and I'm assuming that that was -- you said it was one price for the year.
But I'm assuming that with different products that might have differed some as far as the price increase.
When you look at UltraLight is it still a premium over your -- just your typical SHEETROCK? Or has that premium kind of stayed the same or has it changed any with the recent price increases? What we did at the beginning of the year is we advised all of our customers directly what their prices were going to be.
And we took our prices up on each product category significantly and you can see that in the results.
UltraLight is still a premium over 0.5 inch.
We're very committed that it's a 2-SKU strategy.
There are some customers that prefer to buy the I like to call it the SHEETROCK classic.
But there is so much value add to the UltraLight not only the 0.5 inch but we're getting growth on our 5/8 30 and our 5/8 FIRECODE.
And we're basically rolling that out as we speak.
And there is some – there is price premium over the traditional 5/8 product as well.
So a long answer to your question yes 2-SKU strategy over the 0.5 inch and 5/8 products.
Those were priced appropriately at the beginning of the year.
And quite frankly we've had -- we've been pleasantly surprised on the customers that have come to us and said they would love to purchase the UltraLight portfolio the value-added portfolio because they see what it does to help their customers.
Our next question comes from Joshua Pollard of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Have you seen any of your competitors either in manufacturing or distribution begin to compete on price to gain market share? And can you also describe why L&amp;W prices were up 15% versus to closer to 20% price increase that you guys got on the manufacturing side? Well we don't comment on competitive pricing.
We feel that the job quotes -- we are very firm on job quoting.
That's very -- that policy is not going to change.
We are not going to go back to job quoting.
And we talk about -- we don't match any pricing out there.
We price very independently.
And we feel right now that we believe our pricing strategy is working.
It is -- it has taken hold.
And really you can see it in the results.
L&amp;W if you look at their -- you're looking at it at percentage but their raw dollars from where they purchase they get significant increases and they improve margins.
So we're quite pleased with the margin improvement at L&amp;W.
They have given up work.
The results are there.
You can see their volume’s down 3%.
And we're prepared to give up work where customers don't want to pay for the value-added product of L&amp;W.
So L&amp;W absolutely is not on a market share grab.
It is about as Rick said a few minutes ago L&amp;W will get profitable.
We're very focused on that and we won't be pleased until they get there.
Yes and I think just to underscore what Jim said on the L&amp;W pricing.
Keep in mind their price is much higher because they sell to contractors.
So you can have the same dollar increase but you do it as percent of that higher price you'll have a lower percentage than what the Gypsum Company would get.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
The other question I wanted to see if you guys could answer for me is around capacity over the course of a downturn.
You guys have been kind enough to sort of outline for us what capacity has been added or taken out of the industry.
Can you talk about what if any plans you guys have for adds this year? I've heard about a plant in North Carolina by one of your competitors slated to come on this year.
Can you guys just talk about what the capacity additions and subtractions have been over let's call the last 3 to 6 months and what capacity utilization is for the industry? Well let me be perfectly clear we will not be adding capacity.
We are still in a very soft market.
Capacity utilizations have not come out.
The most recent numbers we have is the industry is still running just north of 50.
There if you look at some effective capacities the effective capacity in the Northeast for us is higher because we're busier in the Northeast.
But we will not be bringing at this point any idle capacity back.
The industry is still running in the high $17 billion low $18 billion range.
And this market is not appropriate from our standpoint to add any capacity.
We -- to bring capacity back on it would be very old capacity inefficient capacity.
And we've invested over the last 10 years over $1 billion in very low-cost high-efficient capacity.
And the key is and Rick shared the numbers in his talking points is the leverage that USG has of that incremental dollar coming back into our current network that's going to be our strategy as we roll out over the next year or so.
If you're looking at capacity reductions we have taken out just north -- or just south of 4 billion feet.
The industry took out just shy of 10 billion feet.
So you're looking at capacity the total capacity in the industry is around 31 billion feet and you're still running a market of around 18 million feet.
So still very very soft that's why we're being very cautious on looking ahead.
And one quarter doesn't make a trend.
But we will not be adding any capacity in this market.
Research Division</strong> What -- are your competitors? You would have to ask them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just sneak one last one in how are you all thinking about pricing for 2013? I'm sure we're not far off of your customers asking the questions.
We've obviously seen what some of your competitors have done.
But what are you guys thinking for 2013 prices as plus 25% what you guys are looking for? It's too early.
We're -- we'll be talking to our customers as we did later on this year but I will tell you it'll be significant.
Our next question comes from Bob Wetenhall of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe a little forward-looking what's the likelihood of L&amp;W reaching breakeven this year? Bob I'm smiling because you know my answer.
My answer is it is ASAP.
So however you want to define that.
We've done a lot of heavy lifting there.
We have -- they're a great part of our portfolio.
We're getting doggone close $6 million in the quarter.
As Rick said we still have some things we need to do there.
The leverage there is tremendous.
We're doing some things right now in the back office that will help our efficiencies.
Margin improvement on the product side is very very important.
And we're really focused with customers who appreciate the L&amp;W value.
So hang in there.
We are – we’ve got our sleeves rolled up and I'm not going to be pleased until it gets there but we are getting doggone close.
LLC Research Division</strong> Were you surprised by how good that division performed this quarter? No we have -- as I said last quarter we have a clear line of sight on -- we have some very specific initiatives and I'm very confident the direction they're going.
So I was pleased.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great.
And you guys have done a great job of reducing the production cost and I was hoping you could just provide an update on incremental margins particularly in the Wallboard business.
Rick had mentioned that fixed costs are lower by 20% year-over-year.
And typically I think you guys have stated publicly before that roughly incremental margin’s around 60%.
And is that still the case or is that improving given the cost reduction efforts? Well we showed those incremental margins in our last 3 recessions and I think it was low at $0.35 and a high of $0.55 $0.60.
And when we showed those numbers Bob that was only U.S.
Gypsum Company.
And at those -- at that time we did not take the amount of cost reductions that we've taken out.
And you've seen our numbers.
We've taken out about $450 million of cost.
And that included L&amp;W.
So the numbers in the first quarter we were -- it was $0.86 I think Rick shared with us and that included L&amp;W.
So historically it's $0.35 to $0.55.
We aren't making a projection but there is a tremendous amount of leverage in this business and we've taken costs out.
But I want to assure you what we've done -- and we've talked about what we've done but we are continuing as we speak at this moment is lowering our breakeven.
I do not want to relax because the business is starting to improve about continuing to look at how we can be more efficient in our back office leveraging global supply chain which we're doing a great job but we have a long way to go and really looking at ways that we can provide value to our customer and be more efficient on the non-value added side.
So that breakeven this management team is going to continue to push that as low as we can so that leverage that you saw in the first quarter is not a onetime event.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes sounds like you're on the right track with that.
Just switching gears to SG&amp;A your sales are up a lot.
Can you keep SG&amp;A in the $300 million low-$300 million range or should we expect that to move up? We're really going to try very hard as Jim said to make further improvements in SG&amp;A.
We're in the midst right now of a back-office efficiency project that we think will be additive to our savings in that area.
Secondarily we also are looking at our overall organizational structure and in particular making sure it's aligned properly with our strategy.
So we see other opportunities that we can tap as we get further down this path.
I would like to say that at some point and I just want to be very clear on this we will be adding back SG&amp;A not in the form of bad cholesterol or in the form of good cholesterol because we want to advance our strategy particularly in growing some of the emerging markets and you need feet on the Street.
So that's longer-term in our thinking.
Weed and seed is what we call it internally.
But certainly in terms of the back-office efficiencies we have more progress to be made.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill of Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk a little bit about volumes and how you think about residential versus nonresidential.
When you -- I think you started the call saying you saw some modest improvement in demand but then when you were going through the volumes in the distribution business it sounded like nonresidential and also in the Ceilings business is fairly stable maybe modest growth in volumes.
And when you look at your wallboard volume being up 15% last quarter 17% this quarter and that's a little over 50% of that would be residential.
Can you just talk generally about what you're seeing in residential volumes first in wallboard and then I guess overall within the business? Dennis the residential volumes are still weak.
You saw the housing start number that came out this morning.
We -- our value is -- residential is an important part of our business.
It's only about 20% and our volume increases have come through the growth of UltraLight we grew our portfolio and our position with some of the big-box retailers who have grown faster than the market.
So the repair and remodel is over 50% of our business.
If you look at L&amp;W their focus is residentials lower on the priority list.
It's more new commercial and commercial R&amp;R.
So that's why you see the differences there.
But really if you look at 41% of our shipments were UltraLight and a lot of those shipments were people who weren't buying UltraLight before and they're willing to pay for a product that they think gives them value.
So we're very pleased with our positioning.
We think residential's probably going to come back last.
And we think the way we positioned the company the last 3 years with a focus on repair and remodel both commercial with our Ceilings business residential with our Gypsum business and then new commercial with L&amp;W we think we have the markets that are going to be showing the first amount of growth as we come out of this recession.
Research Division</strong> Let me ask a different way because I don't know that that ties with some of the numbers.
You said earlier that residential remodeling was up 10% year-over-year.
You said non-res volumes are weak and that they're up modestly.
At least through the distribution business and that's focused on non-res so it should be representative of the market.
If you forget about UltraLight forget about the type and just focus on its end use between residential and non-res it would imply that your residential volumes are up a lot more than the 15 or 17 for the whole segment.
So you said -- I know you said it's weak but let's forget about the end use between remodel and new and just focus on residential.
How much would you say residential volumes are up year-over-year? 5%.
Research Division</strong> 5%? 5%.
Research Division</strong> How -- so what's accounting for the other growth if you're up 17% overall? Our big-box retail business and UltraLight and our regional portfolio.
We're very strong in the Northeast and if you look at where our plants are our business is very strong in the Northeast.
Those are the 3 areas.
Research Division</strong> But you said big box was up 10% year-over-year earlier? No I didn't.
I said repair and remodel was up -- residential repair and remodel as a market went up 10%.
Dennis just to make sure we all have the same numbers new residential for the company is about 23% for wallboard it's about 30%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So how much is new residential wallboard volume up in the first quarter year-over-year? I said about 5%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
We can follow up offline.
Our next question comes from Jack Kasprzak of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted -- not sure I heard a comment correctly you made regarding further price increases.
Have – and I guess I'll just ask the question have you guys announced any price increases for 2013 yet? No we have not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second question on L&amp;W you made a lot of comments about it.
But to get it to breakeven will you need some help from the housing market? I mean is there a level of housing starts that you think we need to have to get L&amp;W to breakeven? We look at the total opportunity of wallboard demand.
As we said housing is not a measure of impact for L&amp;W's results.
But there is -- when you start seeing some demand increase there is a little bit in part of a psychological improvement.
So there's not a breakeven.
So we don't need housing starts to be at a magical 800 000 starts.
We've really lowered the breakeven at L&amp;W and it's really the positioning they have in commercial R&amp;R and new commercial.
So residential -- I mean we want residential to come back but it doesn't have to come back to get L&amp;W to breakeven.
Research Division</strong> So just real quick.
I mean are you guys -- you guys seem to be saying pretty clearly at this point your improvement in the first quarter which was substantial obviously really happened without any help from the new residential market in general.
I mean is that basically a fair statement? That is a very fair statement.
And if you had listened a couple of quarters ago we said that we are very -- we're looking at very modest 2012.
In fact we were probably at the low end of the spectrum of where we thought demand was going to be and I would rather miss it on the low end.
And our strategy has been is this company is going to be operating profit positive without any help from the market.
We need to continue to take cost down and position our business.
So any lift we'll take any lift.
But we just can't wait for the markets to come back and we've continued to lower the breakeven.
If you look at the total industry demand standpoint this company in the first quarter was breakeven with industry shipments of 17 billion to 18 billion feet.
So if you look at how the breakeven has been reduced as a corporation with L&amp;W being included is if we have to operate in this environment and housing doesn't come back for 2 years we need to be profitable.
Research Division</strong> But I guess the game changer was the price increase which led volume this time versus previous cycles where volume came first and then you tacked on a price increase at higher utilization.
I think that -- our new pricing strategy definitely helped but let me just back up.
If you go back one year ago with us introducing something extremely new to the market and I hate to keep harping on this but if you talk to our customers you'll see what a game changer UltraLight was.
Where you can provide a value-added product with improved margins for our customer.
Our customers sell UltraLight at an improved margin.
That was the first step.
Then the second step was okay with that in our hip pocket how do we change the way that products are priced? And we felt that the job quotes policies that we had we wanted to change.
But with that our customers wanted some certainty.
So getting rid of job quotes were very important.
UltraLight was important.
And then giving our customers one price for the year on a significant increase.
It was almost a three-step plan.
Each one of those independently probably wouldn't have got us here but we thought it was a great 1 2 3 step.
Our last question comes from Todd Vencil of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Rick congratulations.
Can you -- and I know this has sort of been touched on but I don't think it's been asked quite this way.
Can you talk about how much of an impact the job quotes number one and secondarily higher diesel and freight costs may have had on the reported mill met in the first quarter? Yes that's a great question.
The job quotes still -- that had an impact in the first quarter.
The first quarter had the largest impact of job quotes.
And as I said they will start rolling off as we get later on in the year.
But you hit the nail on the head.
The diesel price did affect our pricing probably by $2 or so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any way to quantify the job quotes? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you talk about what percentage of the business that United States Gypsum was under job quotes in the quarter? No we don't disclose that but it was a percentage that again will diminish as the quarter and as the year goes on.
And just offsetting by the way higher diesel was lower natural gas so that was a very positive factor in the quarter.
That concludes your questions.
I will now turn the call back over to Ken Banas for any closing remarks.
Jim I think you have some closing remarks? Yes.
Thank you and I appreciate all the questions and the support over the last 17 quarters.
This is as I said earlier one quarter doesn't make a trend.
But we do feel much better about our position now and obviously than we did this time last year.
We're very confident that the actions and a lot of the hard work and a lot of the tough decisions that we had to make about taking plants out and reducing staff and all the tough decisions that were made here have improved the operations and really strengthened this company.
As we talked in the Q&amp;A about the leverage in this company taking those -- making those very tough decisions really positioned us as we look forward.
We can see positive results throughout the entire company.
But as I said we're very pleased to achieve an operating profit in the quarter but we aren't going to take anything for granted.
We must continue to look at ways to lower our breakeven.
As I mentioned earlier achieving and maintaining operating profit is really just the absolute first step towards positive cash flow and net earnings.
We're going to continue to focus on the same things that have enabled us to get to this point.
Operating safely focusing on our customers and helping our customers grow and helping our customers grow through innovation.
We appreciate your time today and we look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
Thanks Jim.
A tape replay of this call will be available until Friday April 27.
Information and access that tape replay is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the USG Corporation's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Ken Banas.
Mr.
Banas you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call and live webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management’s current views and assumptions of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
With me today to discuss our results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the quarter for the Corporation and the business segments.
We'll then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
[Operator Instructions] Jim? Thank you Ken and good morning.
I appreciate everyone joining us today.
We appreciate your interest in USG and I'm looking forward with sharing our results with you this morning.
After reaching the important milestone of operating profit in the first quarter we've continued that positive trend with operating profit in the second quarter of 2012.
In fact our sales of $825 million in the second quarter were the highest since 2009.
That's an important comparison.
The key difference is in 2009 we lost $40 million in that quarter.
We believe now that we've turned the corner and we're focused on achieving net earnings.
This is a testament to the innovation and commitment of all of our employees despite the market demand well below historical averages.
Today I'm going to focus my comments on 2 areas.
First I want to review the highlights of the second quarter and Matt is going to go into some more details of the numbers.
Then I want to discuss a key strategic component in our strategy and I like to say our plan to win is our new wallboard partnership to support the India market.
So now let's take a look at the quarter.
For U.S.
Gypsum overall wallboard volume price and cost significantly improved compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Compared to the first quarter our volume was down slightly but our margin increased with both price and cost improvement.
Our new pricing strategy which we instituted earlier this year which gives our customers certainty on price levels continues to be very effective.
In our Substrates business we had strong results with our next-generation DUROCK with margins up over 16% year-on-year and DUROCK volume was the strongest since 2008.
Now turning to our Ceilings business.
Profitability in the quarter remained strong due to the growth of our high-end ceiling tile and solid grid margins.
Sales were down slightly versus the first quarter but we do expect a pickup as we are currently in the school construction season and the seasonality of our big-box business which will happen in the fall.
The next area is our Distribution business L&amp;W Supply.
L&amp;W's wallboard volume and price increased in the second quarter and we had strong performance in steel and ceilings compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Our comp store sales increased 11% year-on-year as we continue to focus on the commercial contractor where L&amp;W provides value.
In fact sales and margins at L&amp;W improved in all 7 core product categories year-on-year.
Our international units continued to weather various storms in their market.
For example Canadian Gypsum Company's second quarter year-on-year sales are ahead of last year while operating profit was down.
USG Mexico sales also improved year-on-year despite a very challenging market.
In order to strengthen our product portfolio in Mexico we've successfully launched both UltraLight and Mold Tough during the second quarter.
Our results from the first half of this year give us reason to be cautiously optimistic with both top and bottom line improvement.
Despite a continued weak market in the United States we made slow recovery.
We continue to focus on our plan to win.
Our strategy has 3 key components: strengthening the core which is our North American manufacturing and distribution; differentiating our portfolio through innovation with introductions like UltraLight; and diversifying our earnings to select emerging markets.
In previous calls we've talked about strengthening our core and differentiating through innovation.
So today I'd like to expand on diversifying our earnings.
We compete in a business that has been dependent on the North American construction market.
Because of this we carefully evaluate new and existing markets that meet some important criteria for us.
To provide geographic diversity to our earnings we look at the growth potential where we can achieve a #1 or #2 market position a market where there's Western construction practices particularly in commercial construction and the USG brand is strong.
One key emerging market for us is India.
In order to serve the high-growth Indian market we have launched a new wallboard manufacturing partnership with a very highly regarded company the Zawawi Group.
The Zawawi Group has partnered with multinational organizations such as Avis and DHL and has the local strength resources and management expertise.
The first important factors to succeed in India we needed to secure a reliable gypsum rock source.
We've done this by the way of a gypsum mining joint venture and we also plan to build a wallboard plant that we can cost-effectively shift to India.
We plan to begin the mining operations in Oman in the third quarter of next year and the wallboard plant is slated to come online by the end of 2013.
The India market exhibits very attractive growth opportunities where we have strong brand awareness Western commercial construction practices and an architectural preference of USG systems.
Wallboard market demand in India is expected to grow at a pace of 15% year-on-year to approximately a 2-billion-foot market by 2020.
And our goal is to participate in that growth.
As we look at our competitive position in the market we are also exploring strategic alternatives for our European operations.
We are currently in discussions with the respect of a possible sale and we'll communicate more about this when our plans firm up.
As we look at the current market we still need to create our own recovery.
We will continue to take care of our customers with innovative systems and absolutely continue to lower our breakeven.
As we look to the remainder of 2012 we believe that the recovery in North America is slowly improving but the pace is still uncertain.
So we need to continue to focus on the areas that we have control.
We expect that our wallboard and ceilings pricing strategy will continue to improve margins and give our customers clarity of their cost.
We project that industry wallboard demand has bottomed with improvements over 2011 and our volume will also increase particularly with the continued growth of our lightweight portfolio.
We've had success with our cost-reduction efforts over the last several years and we've shared those with you over the last few quarters.
We've taken out over $450 million of permanent costs.
We remain committed to cost reductions and we have additional initiatives underway which we expect to continue to lower our breakeven.
We are moving ahead with our international strategy but we're doing it with caution as we continue to explore additional ways to diversify our earnings.
Overall we expect the positive momentum from the first half of the year will carry through the remainder of 2012 with a keen focus on positive net earnings as soon as possible.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Matt who is going to give you greater details on our results from the quarter.
Matt? Thanks Jim and good morning to all of you.
This is my first earnings call as USG's new CFO and I'm very pleased to be here.
As Jim mentioned I'll recap our second quarter results and provide some additional details on each of our business segments.
Second quarter 2012 net sales were $825 million up 8% from the second quarter of last year.
Our second quarter operating profit was $31 million which compares to an operating loss of $21 million in the second quarter of 2011.
This $52 million improvement year-over-year is due in large part to improved wallboard gross profits which benefited from higher wallboard prices lower unit costs and higher value.
Given all of the above our incremental operating profit in the second quarter of 2012 versus 2011 was $52 million and $64 million of increased sales resulting in an incremental operating profit margin of 81%.
This demonstrates the strong operating leverage of USG.
The second quarter 2012 net loss was $57 million or $0.53 loss per share.
This compares to a second quarter loss last year of $70 million or $0.69 per share.
The net loss this year included a $41 million charge related to the extinguishment of debt associated with the refinancing of our 2014 maturity bonds.
Excluding this charge the adjusted net loss was $16 million or $0.15 per share.
In the second quarter of 2012 SG&amp;A was $78 million versus $72 million last year.
We continue to take steps to lower our breakeven and focus on managing our SG&amp;A expenses.
We have several cost-reduction programs in progress across the enterprise.
And despite this increase in the second quarter SG&amp;A in 2012 should only slightly be higher than 2011.
I will now provide a little more detail on our second quarter segment results.
Net sales for our North American Gypsum segment increased 13% $473 million for the quarter and operating profit was $31 million versus an operating loss last year of $16 million.
These results were driven by improvement in many of our products and businesses.
A few of the key contributions are noted here: higher U.S.
wallboard price contributed $24 million; the reduction in U.S.
wallboard manufacturing cost $10 million due to lower natural gas and lower fixed costs; and $2 million in incremental profit due to wallboard volume improvement.
Our U.S.
Wallboard business shipped 1.15 billion square feet in the quarter an increase of 16% compared to the second quarter of last year and basically flat from Q1 of this year.
We attribute this increase to overall market improvement and to the continued customer demand of our SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight Panels as our shipments of these panels continue to grow.
Average wallboard selling prices were up with an average realized price for 2012 second quarter of approximately $132 per million square feet compared to approximately $112 per million square feet in the second quarter of 2011.
For the balance of the year the roll off of job quotes from 2011 should have a de minimis impact on our pricing.
As you can see our new pricing strategy has been highly effective.
We have not seen deterioration of wallboard pricing this year and we remain committed to this new pricing methodology.
Turning to Worldwide Ceilings.
Our Ceilings business continues to deliver consistent and solid results continuing its track record throughout this downturn of a positive operating profit every quarter.
Second quarter net sales for Worldwide Ceilings increased by $4 million to $177 million and second quarter segment operating profit was $22 million.
These results were driven by strong grid and tile margins due to both a shift in mix to higher-end products and strategic pricing actions that offset input cost increases and slightly lower volume.
In our Building Products Distribution segment net sales increased 9% year-on-year for the second quarter.
The operating loss in this year's first quarter decreased to $7 million from $14 million a year ago.
As L&amp;W continues to expand and grow its product portfolio outside of wallboard we believe this will help our customers and strengthen our results.
L&amp;W wallboard volume and price was up in the quarter contributing $4 million in incremental operating profit versus the second quarter of 2011 even while competition among distributors remains a factor.
L&amp;W continues to lower its overhead cost on its path to operating profit with a $1 million year-on-year reduction contributing to its results in the second quarter.
Now I add some details on corporate spending and what we have been doing to manage our capital spending and our balance sheet including liquidity.
Capital expenditures totaled $14 million in the second quarter and we are forecasting about $75 million of capital spending for the full year of 2012.
This is higher than last year in order to fund a number of projects that will generate both top line growth and incremental cost savings.
These projects are underway and should begin to show results later this year and in 2013.
As part of our strategy to diversify earnings by growing in select international markets we plan to make approximately $60 million of loans to and investments in foreign joint ventures in 2012 which includes our investment in Oman of which we expect approximately $45 million to be spent this year and $15 million in 2013.
Finally as of June 30 2012 we had total liquidity of $745 million.
Let me conclude by saying that while we are pleased to have continued our positive operating profit in the second quarter of 2012 we remain focused on achieving positive cash flow and net earnings as quickly as possible.
We will continue to manage our costs and lower the breakeven of each business while investing in those businesses that will generate an appropriate return on invested capital.
At this time we'll be happy to answer your questions and I'll turn it back to you Ken.
We are ready for questions operator.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Rodny Nacier from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I was interested in the Wallboard pricing.
It was up 1% sequentially and appears to be in stable territory.
So I was wondering could you give me the mix of UltraLight shipments this quarter versus the second quarter? And secondly how much of pricing on an apples-to-apples basis was it up excluding any legacy projects carried over from '11? Thanks Rodny.
As Matt said sequentially we're up about $2 from the first quarter.
UltraLight shipments are about 44% of our total which is up from first quarter as well.
I think we were 40% 41%.
We are continuing to get great acceptance on UltraLight and actually the portfolio is expanding.
We now have UltraLight 5/8" 30 throughout the United States and all of our locations.
And that has grown in the second quarter as well.
In fact we shipped as much in the second quarter I believe as much as we shipped all of last year.
We've also expanded UltraLight 5/8" X.
We have that primarily in the Northeast and have expanded that to 4 plants and we're getting some really good customer acceptance there.
We are getting a premium on those products.
And on the price side we're very pleased with the results.
I think getting rid of job quotes has given much clarity to our customers as I said in my prepared comments but also it allows our salespeople to go out and promote our products.
So everything is nice and firm on our price side and we're quite pleased.
Research Division</strong> And can I have a follow-up? We'll try to have one question.
So if you wouldn't mind hanging on Rodny and if we have some time we'll grab that as we get through the queue.
Our next question comes from Bob Wetenhall from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you just touch on incremental margin performance in the L&amp;W segment and what your thoughts are in terms of margin performance given your cost-saving initiatives in the business? Sure.
As you know Bob we're very focused on getting L&amp;W profitable.
And from a sequential standpoint we kind of went sideways.
From an operating standpoint all key 7 categories that's steel joint treatment ceiling tile quarter-on-quarter we had gross margin improvement.
Volume was up slightly.
Really where -- the impact in the second quarter was wallboard spread.
L&amp;W took their price up but some of the legacy quotes from the manufacturing side took hold and there was a little backward motion on spread.
But if you look at top line the top line is strong our comp store sales were up over 10% 11% and those 7 category margins were all quarter-on-quarter up.
So we aren't where we need to be from an operating profit.
We do have a line of sight to get there.
If you look at overall expenses at L&amp;W delivery overall branch expenses were down both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter.
So I'm not pleased where we are.
We're very focused but I do have the confidence we're going to get there very shortly.
LLC Research Division</strong> In terms of wallboard spread that you just referenced does that roll off those manufacturers' quotes through now and year end to improve the spread? Well what we need to do and we are continuing to L&amp;W is since we had some spread compaction is continue to get price improvement on the L&amp;W side in the market.
So really that's the key.
As those quotes roll off L&amp;W's costs do go up and those need to be passed along in the market.
So as I said in previous calls we have a very focused approach on wallboard pricing at L&amp;W.
It's done centrally and if you -- the distribution market is very fragmented but we still feel confident of getting price improvement with L&amp;W in the market.
Our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson from Thompson Research Group.
LLC.</strong> A question just on the wallboard division.
Our industry conducts are showing that volume trends into July are still as robust.
One I wanted to get your commentary on volume trends in July? And also it looks like from a market share standpoint while you're up year-over-year maybe it was down sequentially.
In your opinion do you think your market share in the wallboard segment has settled out? Thanks Kathryn.
We think we're getting into seasonality which is kind of interesting it's really the first year.
The second quarter typically our business will pause a little bit from a volume perspective because our market share in the big-box area.
Now they go into lawn and garden and go into seasonal where we start getting into the fall our business typically gets stronger October typically is a very strong month for us.
And we haven't seen that in the last 4 years.
So we think with the market we have a little wind at our back on demand.
We still are balancing price and volume.
This is not a market share gain for us.
We are getting great traction with UltraLight and we have customers that want the UltraLight portfolio.
They are -- we do get a premium price for UltraLight.
So that's really been the driver behind our volume increases.
So we're cautiously optimistic in the second half and we think that with UltraLight that gives us something different to talk about with our customers and gives them something to go in the market with.
So the volume is hanging in there.
But we're focused more on profitability and our line of sight on net earnings.
So this is not about market share this is about margin improvement.
LLC.</strong> The volumes have maintained and continue to kind of...
Yes they have.
We saw some seasonal fall-off.
Sequentially we were down slightly from the first quarter but that's not surprising to us.
Our next question comes from Jim Barrett from CL King &amp; Associates.
Inc.</strong> Matt the profits in Q1 were on a GAAP basis $27 million.
Because of the refinancing I know the company reported possibly an unaudited $6 million in Jan Feb.
Can you tell us what happened in Q2 to cause overall profitability to be up only a few million dollars in spite of what looked like a very strong March with profits up over $20 million? Yes.
March as you know if you go do the math March was a very very strong month for us.
And I don't want to dissect the quarter by month but as we look at the second quarter as Jim said we've had strong volumes improved margins.
And one of the things that I think did creep up on us a little bit in the second quarter was just SG&amp;A.
And we're committed I mean we are absolutely committed to lowering the breakeven of this company.
And when we look at SG&amp;A through the balance of the year I think it's going to be up just slightly above what it was a year ago.
But I think in the second quarter there were some timing issues and some other things that came up and hit us.
And I think that put a little bit of pinch when you kind of look at the math for March versus the second quarter.
So I feel very good about the profitability of where the second quarter ended.
Our next question comes from Trey Grooms from Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> So in the past you've said that -- I think in the last quarter you said that all of the legacy price contracts I think you said they roll off by the end of third quarter.
Could you give us an update on that? Is that still the case? And then also can you kind of give us an idea how to think about what kind of impact this is going to have on both the Wallboard business and L&amp;W? Thanks Trey.
As Matt said in his comments the back half of the year is going to be small.
Most of the job quotes do expire midyear into the third quarter.
So I wouldn't look for a big bump as you look in the back half of the year.
What we're pleased about is we got $2 from the first quarter and price is very firm and we are making no price action.
Actually we're looking ahead to 2013 so that's rolling off.
If you look at L&amp;W as I said with the earlier question L&amp;W is very focused on margin improvement in all product categories including Wallboard.
They're very focused on the commercial contractor and providing value there.
So getting price improvement and spread improvement with L&amp;W is going to be key particularly as those legacy quotes roll off from L&amp;W's manufacturers obviously we are the largest one they buy from roll off.
So the key is price improvement not only on the Gypsum side U.S.
Gypsum but also L&amp;W continuing to get pricing improvement and they're going to do that quite frankly because they are providing value to their customers.
So that's really our focus there and we have some great checks and balances to make sure we don't go backwards on the distribution side as well.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow Research.
I have a question on the Ceilings division.
Just wondering if you could provide a little bit more color on the incremental margin.
I'm looking at it more quarter-over-quarter think the incremental margins were down about 100% decremental.
Just wondering if there's anything going on in the costs.
I noticed on the slide deck you had about $6 million year-over-year in all other changes negative.
I was just wondering if maybe you could provide a little bit more color as to what that line entails? Sure.
The Ceilings business as we said we're continuing to be very pleased with the results in Ceilings.
Really if you look at last year there was a sequential move on operating profit quarter-on-quarter.
We're basically 2 things: volumes came off we had some volume decreases with overall opportunity the opportunity came down in commercial so the opportunity came down; also as I said earlier on the Wallboard side we have a pretty big presence in big-boxes so it was a seasonality and we're right now into the summer school construction season and then we'll be working into the fall where our large customers will start focusing more on building materials.
But if you look at costs there were some -- grid we hung in there where were some steel increases that basically we offset.
So really if you look at -- really it was -- really at the volume impact which affected some manufacturing [indiscernible] primarily on the tile side.
Our high-end ceiling tile the margins were very strong quarter-on-quarter.
Really the big impact to what you saw was lower volumes in our commodity tile and with some cost increase there.
So we're still optimistic in the back half of the year on Ceilings and I think we're continuing on a record pace on operating profit.
And some of these projects that you highlighted with respect to seasonality and the school construction are you seeing the mix benefit continue into the third quarter there? Yes.
I mean we are seeing a big mix change and really that's a big contributor to our operating profit over the last couple of quarters is really specifying and selling that higher-end that higher-performance ceiling tile which is a higher-margin product.
So commodity tile is the volume but our higher-end margin for both grid and of the high-end ceiling tile is part of our strategy.
So yes.
Our next question comes from Neil Frohnapple from Northcoast Research.
Jim you mentioned you're looking forward to price in 2013.
Do you still anticipate wallboard prices to be significantly higher next year? And sort of when are you thinking to formally send out price letters or have those discussions with distributors? Well it's still early.
I mean there's a lot of uncertainties in unit cost.
We look at a lot of things.
We look at demand we look at unit cost.
There's a lot of questions once we get past the November election.
So right now we are formulating our plans.
One thing I will say on 2013 we are going to continue our policy of no job quotes.
That policy has worked and it has worked for our customers.
And as I said earlier our sales organization has more time to promote sell and service our customers.
So we're formulating all that now and we're going to have those individual conversations later this year when we have a better idea what '13 looks like.
But I will say that the plan is that the pricing -- we're going to improve pricing as we continue to do over the last couple of years.
Our next question comes from Joshua Pollard from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First I want to congratulate you guys on keeping analysts to one question.
I think you're doing a better job than Apple in that standpoint.
My question is actually on profitability.
How long do you guys expect to keep these 80% to 100% incremental margins in the Wallboard business? And how much of that is actually coming from your natural gas benefits you're seeing both the hedge and spot maybe if you could just give an overall update on where you guys are for nat gas? I'll turn in the natural gas over to Matt but on the profitability we are very focused on net earnings.
And that is just not getting it from one product category or the other.
We need to get L&amp;W profitable we have a line of sight of getting L&amp;W profitable we're going to continue to grow the profitability of our Ceilings business.
And our Wallboard business we talk about wallboard a lot but Joint Treatment and DUROCK and the entire portfolio we have everyone focused on satisfying our customers growing our business growing our margins and I'm really pleased with 2 quarters of operating profit.
But as we said earlier we need to have positive cash flow which we're very focused on and positive net earnings.
So until we get in that spot we are going to continue to lower our breakeven and things like natural gas have helped but I will say at our plants our plants are running 50% plus or minus capacity utilization and they have done a remarkable job of efficiencies.
Recovery speed and delay have been at historic highs.
Our safety record has been wonderful and natural gas has helped.
And again Matt will give you some comments on that but I just want to assure everyone on the call that we are extremely focused on getting this wonderful company to net earnings.
Research Division</strong> When do you expect that if I could just ask that question? My expectation is as soon as possible and my job is to be very impatient about that.
And it is as soon as possible.
I'm not giving a projection but my team around me knows that there is a tremendous amount of focus that that has to happen ASAP.
So I can't give you a date or a time but stay tuned.
Matt do you want to...
So kind of the blended cost for gas for us for this year on an MMBtu basis is about $3.50.
And that's down substantially from a year ago up somewhere around call it $5.50.
And when we look out to next year we continue to hedge for 2013.
We'd like to be about 50% hedged when we go into 2013 and leave a little bit open as we continue to kind of watch what happens with spot prices so we can take advantage of that.
But you look out next year and the forward for gas has been around $3.50 to $3.70.
I think it creeped up just a little bit today.
But it's not too far off from where we are now.
So we watch it very carefully and as Jim said it's an important component of costs but we're going to continue to do things around all of our other cost line items to bring the breakeven of this company down.
So does that answer your question Joshua? Research Division</strong> I would love to understand at what level your hedging at just so we get a sense of where you are and I know you want to be 50% by year end but are you at a quarter at $3.50 or you're at a quarter at $3? That will be helpful.
Joshua you were commending us on our one question.
So we'll be more than happy to answer that.
So if you can hang on.
Research Division</strong> That's fine.
He asked me if it answered my question.
I'll be good.
I'll hop back in queue.
That's fair.
We'll get that answer to you.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie.
It looks like the non-wallboard North American Gypsum sales were relatively flattish or just up slightly year-over-year.
Can you sort of give color in terms of why that growth would be so different from the wallboard volume levels year-on-year? Sure.
It's really -- one of the biggest categories is our Joint Treatment and Surfaces business.
We had a pause from the first quarter.
We had a couple large customers with some very substantial first quarter block buys of Joint Treatment and when you look at quarter-on-quarter that's really the biggest variance on the non-wallboard products.
Also if you look at -- in the Canadian Gypsum our CGC results sometimes get blended and that was Ceilings -- Ceiling results up in Canada as well but the primary area was our Surfaces business.
The next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on the --  I just want to go back to the Ceilings business for a moment.
I believe you said that some of it was some seasonality also lower volume in tile with cost increases but if you look at the margins of USG Interiors going back the last few quarters you had a 19-plus percent margin in the first quarter.
Before that you were running anywhere from 13% to 16% and now you're back at roughly 16% x charges.
So how should we think about this? It seems like first quarter '12 at plus 19% again this is just the USG Interiors business was a little bit of an outlier.
Should we think about a 15% 16% 14% to 16% margin going forward? Is that reasonable? And maybe what drove that bump in 1Q? I mean your numbers are right.
If you look at last year we probably you said 14% to 16%.
You see the 1Q versus second Q last year we went from 16% to 13%.
So just as a comparison 2011 first Q we were 16 and change.
Second Q we were 13 and change.
We had a very good first quarter.
There were some -- in the first quarter of 2012 let me be specific there were some sales that were brought into the first quarter because of grid price increases.
So we had a bump in our grid business in the first quarter which really gave us some great results.
So looking forward and not giving any guidance I am very comfortable and as I said we're on pace to have a record year in Ceilings.
So I think there isn't really anything that should concern you.
Really the key and what I tell people about the Ceilings business on the results is really focus on can we stay ahead of any type of steel increases.
That's really the big area in Ceilings.
If there's a steel increase and we can pass that along and get improved margins in our grid business ahead of that really you're going to see some positive quarterly results.
Last year we were behind one quarter.
We had grid increases and we didn't pass that along in the market and we felt that.
So when you look at the business really the key is how are we doing on steel procurement and can we pass that along in the market.
And quite frankly if you look at grid margins quarter-on-quarter they were basically flat.
And the impact as I said earlier was really volume-related on the commodity.
So I think your models are pretty good and we're very confident on the rest of the year.
Our next question from Dennis McGill from Zelman and Associates.
Research Division</strong> Just interested in your opinion of price realization relative to the industry and if I could ask across both manufacturing and distribution.
So if you look at year-to-date price realization I'm specifically focused on wallboard do you believe that you are above industry equal to industry or below industry? And then same question as it relates to L&amp;W and their pricing to market? Let me comment on our pricing.
I really can't comment on the industry pricing.
We always believe that to get value with our products we should be able to get a price premium.
And our customers will tell us if our value proposition is worth the price premium.
So -- and you can always ask yourself is the price premium last look on a large job or is the price premium a dollar amount? So we continue to introduce new products across our portfolio and it's just not UltraLight we have some other new products that we plan to introduce that's providing value to our customers.
So we have value-added selling and that's why eliminating job quotes and giving clarity to our customers this year on one price for the year it allows our people and our salespeople to promote our entire portfolio.
So at the end of the day I'm quite pleased with where we've gone on price improvement.
And we're very focused to continue to provide value and hopefully our customers will continue to pay us for it.
On distribution let me just go to distribution.
We have taken a very different approach over the last 12 months on distribution.
As I said earlier we have a very focused price policy at L&amp;W Supply.
Price authority is very centralized.
It is now out of the field it's monitored and watched every day.
Price improvement realization on L&amp;W is absolutely key and that's why our strategy at L&amp;W focusing on the commercial contractors we provide value.
If you look at our 7 core product categories steel studs commercial insulation ceiling tile and grid exterior systems that's really in line with our commercial contractor.
The residential homebuilder customer is an important part of the L&amp;W portfolio.
But quite frankly we don't provide as much value to that customer.
Thus that customer is not willing to pay for it.
So our focus at L&amp;W is providing value and to be able to provide value hopefully the customer sees that the prices that we charge they're willing to do it.
So it's very similar to our U.S.
Gypsum strategy with the exception that there is a keen focus on the commercial contractor which quite frankly is new.
It's a focus we've had for about the last [indiscernible] quarters.
Research Division</strong> I think Jim you're making me read between the lines.
But if I had to summarize that I'm hearing you say that your pricing realization would be better.
Both of those things would imply that's better than industry is that a fair assessment? Again I'm not going to comment on the industry Dennis.
But I think your assessment's -- I don't want to comment on it.
I think you may be on the right track.
Our next question comes from John Baugh from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question is relating to Gypsum segment and looking at it Q2 year-over-year you commented on non-wallboard and you talked about the Joint Treatment I think being down from first quarter.
Could you comment on the quarter year-over-year both on volume and pricing in joint compound? And then any other non-wallboard categories and how they played out year-over-year in Q2? I appreciate the question on non-wallboard products because they're very important segments.
We break the non-wallboard grouping into Surfaces which is our Joint Treatment Texture and Plaster business and Substrates which is our performance Substrates DUROCK FIBEROCK SECUROCK.
And let me start with Substrates.
Volumes year-on-year as I said in DUROCK are up 16%.
Margins are up year-on-year.
FIBEROCK business has improved slightly.
We took a step backwards a few years ago on some customers that -- customer shifts.
So the year-on-year volume are very very strong but we're very focused it's no different.
We're very focused on margin improvement in those categories.
If you look at the other non-wallboard products which would be Joint Treatment our Joint Treatment business we have been very aggressive on price improvement in Joint Treatment and we lost some volume and we balanced.
We have a very high market share in Joint Treatment.
We have to really balance our price and volume and our margin improvement in Joint Treatment very carefully.
Our Plaster business we don't talk a lot about and that business is a slow growth business but again we have a big market share there.
So year-on-year I think each one of those categories from a volume perspective is low-single digits and more up.
Margin improvement is also key but those are areas that we have very specific general managers that run the business and that we want to focus on growing those businesses.
We just introduced a new Joint Treatment our lightweight Joint Treatment business which is just getting into the big-box retailers and we're getting into the market and the rollout has been quite frankly a little slow for us.
And so that's something we are focused on and we think the back half of the year we'll see some improvement.
So if you look at the Joint Treatment business you equate to industry growth we do grow our Joint Treatment higher than the industry because of our large market share.
But it's very -- Joint Treatment is very contractor-focused.
It's a pool strategy and we have people in the field that are doing trials every day.
So I think that side of the business we're very pleased with and even with our large market share we are going to continue to introduce new products.
Your next question comes from Todd Vencil from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> On the wallboard price this year I mean do you feel at this point like we've fully realized the increase in the beginning of the year? And can you talk about what the drag was from freight on the net there in relation to what it was in the first quarter? As we said we don't give any projections as you know in the back half of the year but you're going to see the job quotes roll off.
It's going to be very small percentages as we get into the second half of the year.
If you look at freight it did have some drag in the second quarter particularly early in the second quarter.
It has come down slightly but that was -- it wasn't any huge impact to the net price.
That is something that when you look at the net realized price freight freight increases do impact that.
So if you look at diesel costs or if you look into any of the factors that go into the freight category when you are doing your models that does have an impact plus or minus on the net price but it's not of significance.
So we're very pleased where we are.
I think the most important part or the fact on us being pleased is we talk to all of our customers.
And it has given our customers some unbelievable clarity.
It's one less thing they have to worry about.
They know what their price is for the year.
They can quote their jobs.
They can focus on bigger things like labor and growing their business.
So this -- it's been very different for us.
We're extremely excited about the way it's worked for our customers and they've told us "Continue this." And the reason we're saying there's no job quotes into 2013 is because our customers say this really works for them and it gives them clarity.
So I just wanted to clarify why we're pleased because this is what our customers are telling us.
Our next question comes from Dan Oppenheim from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about the non-res side.
I think overall it seemed very positive in terms of comments on wallboard in general.
But as you think about what's happening in the non-res side what's your view and outlook there? On the commercial side as I said earlier it's taken a pause a little bit and it's had a bigger impact on our Ceilings business and quite frankly on the L&amp;W business.
We were looking at the beginning of the year low-single digits and when you look at the -- if you look at McGraw-Hill or any of the forecasts out there our products particularly ceiling tile have about an 18-month lag.
So we're still working through if you look back our non-res was down double digits 18 months ago.
We're still working through that 18-month lag for ceilings.
So we're probably in the single-digit increase on non-res.
We're really -- a lot of it has to do with job creation and office construction.
And job creation has a big impact on the non-res business.
So it did affect -- it does affect L&amp;W from a volume perspective.
As I said with one of the previous callers our focus is on the commercial contractor.
So if you look at the segments everyone -- we know where housing has gone year-on-year.
The repair and remodel business has been solid.
But in the second quarter it did take a pause because of seasonality and maybe also the economy.
But the third area the non-res business is really -- it's limping along.
So as you look forward we aren't expecting any big bumps in commercial construction in our cycle.
Our next question comes from Ken Copley from Capital Executive.
I'm not looking for any month-by-month dissection just general color from an aggregate perspective.
But I'm trying to get a feel for if there were any business downturn in the month of June.
So how was your month of June from an aggregate perspective [indiscernible] quarter itself? We don't break it out month-by-month but I will say the quarter and this is the first time in probably 4 years Ken that we've seen seasonality.
If you look historically if you go back and throw out the last 3 or 4 years because it was just like catching a falling knife.
I mean every quarter top line was on opportunity was going down.
But typically in our business the second quarter your first and fourth quarters are typically strong quarters the second quarter is your weakest quarter.
But it didn't fall off that much.
You can see our wallboard shipments were down slightly.
And so we were pleased but there wasn't any big outlier.
Our next question comes from Rodny Nacier from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up question is actually on the gypsum supply.
So I'm trying to get a better understanding of the synthetic gypsum supply dynamics and when I'm looking at coal consumption it was down about 40% year-over-year in the first quarter.
And I assume it's down again pretty sharply in the second quarter.
So at what point do these declines start to affect the synthetic gypsum supply for the industry? And are we already seeing the impact and perhaps the industry starting to view the remaining supply as a more valuable diminishing asset? That's an excellent question and absolutely we have seen the impact of gypsum supply really over the last 3 or 4 months.
Supply has gotten tight.
We have seen some shortages in some areas.
We have not really had those shortages.
But the good news is we have very firm contracts with the utilities.
We've been in the synthetic gypsum business for 25 years so this isn't new for us.
And it is becoming a more valuable part of the raw materials.
So you hit the nail right on the head.
Everyone knows what's happening with coal consumption and that has had an impact.
So it's something that I view -- we're very comfortable with our supply.
It has -- overall supply has gotten tighter.
And it's something that is something you got to keep your eye on.
So the answer is yes.
Research Division</strong> And while we're on the industry what was the utilization rate for the industry in wallboard and/or industry shipments? Utilization was mid-50s.
Still on a punky area.
But as I talked in some previous quarters that's assuming everyone would be running their plants full out.
We like to look at effective capacity utilization.
It's going to take -- to add a shift at a plant it could take anywhere from 3 to 5 months.
So if you look at the effective capacity it is much higher than that 50%.
It could be anywhere from 15 to 20 points higher of plants that are staffed at the current rate and not being able to add any additional manpower.
Our final question comes from Yoma Abibi [ph] from JPMorgan.
My question is on free cash flow.
Can you give us a sense for even if you don't want to give specific guidance perhaps you can give us a little bit more color how we should be thinking about free cash flow for the balance of the year with respect to perhaps some line item expenditures we should expect going forward perhaps in the context of seasonal free cash flow? This is Matt.
So if -- in the slide deck on the cash flow statement which we included in our press release I think everybody can take a look at it but free cash flow for the first 6 months is a negative $78 million compared to a year ago for the first 6 months of a negative $180 million.
So clearly the trend to get to positive free cash flow is there.
That's what we want to do.
We've got as we look at 2013 that's clearly a goal as Jim had said is to get to positive net earnings to get to positive net cash flow.
When we look at capital expenditures we are going to spend somewhere around $74 million $75 million this year.
Those are solid projects and things that we truly believe are important to either growing the top line for us or reducing our expenses.
And we have not figured out what our CapEx is going to be next year.
But clearly we're going to go through and figure that out as we approach the second half of the year and approach year end.
And as Jim has talked about that's -- we clearly have a line of sight to positive free cash flow and net earnings next year.
So I feel good about where we are from a cash flow statement on a year-to-date basis.
I don't have any worries about the second half of the year.
And from a liquidity standpoint we've got about $750 million of liquidity over $500 million of cash in the balance sheet.
So clearly we can afford the CapEx and we feel very good about it.
If the seasonal historical patterns work what does free cash flow look like quarter-to-quarter? Can we -- we're just -- we're about at the end and what we'd like to do is as we said trying to keep this to one question.
We still have some other people in queue but we do have to wrap up.
So we'll be more than happy to follow up on any questions that you or the other callers that are in queue.
And I apologize if we didn't get to all of the callers that's why.
And I really appreciate everyone trying to keep it to one question and giving everyone a shot to ask us.
So let's have -- we'll have that as a follow-up.
I really appreciate everyone's interest in our company and we are pleased as I said that we've achieved an operating profit in the first half of 2012.
As Matt just said we have an absolute keen focus on net earnings positive cash flow and we still have some work ahead of us.
Our strategy as we've talked about strengthening our core that's really absolutely critical.
We want to diversify our earnings and we want to continue to differentiate through innovation.
We think each one of those legs of that strategic plan are starting to take hold.
I want to assure everyone that we're extremely focused and we know what needs to be done really to execute our plan.
Our customers and I appreciate any customers that are listening you are our #1 priority and we're going to continue with our new product innovation which will provide the value that we want to give you and help you grow your business as we get into 2013.
I want to also assure you that our efforts to reduce the breakeven we have additional initiatives that we talked about diversifying our earnings have laid the foundation really to profitably grow this fine enterprise.
So I appreciate everyone's interest this morning and you taking the time and we look forward to updating you next quarter and on our results and our path to profitability.
Thank you.
Thank you Jim.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Friday August 3.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the USG Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tricia and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ken Banas.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's third quarter 2012 earnings conference call and live webcast.
We will be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management’s current views and assumptions of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
With me today to discuss our results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the quarter and the business segments.
We will then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
[Operator Instructions] Jim? Thank you Ken and good morning.
Thank you for joining us and we appreciate your interest in USG.
I'm looking forward to sharing our observations on the quarter with you today as well as some initial thoughts that we have on 2013.
In the third quarter we continued our positive results from the first half of the year with yet another quarter of positive operating profit.
We achieved the highest operating profit since 2007 our best quarter in the last 5 years.
We achieved high levels of customer satisfaction and delivered industry-leading products in a safe manner.
Despite demand in the U.S.
well below historical levels we are making strides toward our primary objective of positive net income.
We do believe we are in the early stages of a recovery in our core markets.
With that said the path back to our historical norms is likely to be choppy.
We are pleased with the progress in our business and I'm optimistic about the future.
Demand for new residential is getting stronger as you saw in the numbers yesterday but we continue to experience some weakness in our commercial markets in fact -- in principally our Worldwide Ceilings business and L&amp;W Supply.
We are committed to continue to lower USG's breakeven.
We are not waiting for the markets to fully recover.
As you've heard us say before we are creating our own recovery.
We've taken out nearly $0.5 billion in cost and we will continue to weed the business so we can feed our growth.
These actions are allowing us to make targeted investments in growth areas and lower our breakeven.
We are implementing break-even initiatives to accomplish this objective and we are currently making some small investments there.
This will occur over the next few quarters to complete the implementation of an expanded shared services organization for HR information technology finance and supply chain and outsource some of our back office functions.
And these actions will further reduce our cost as the market recovers.
Now I'd like to turn to our business units.
In our North America Gypsum segment our U.S.
pricing strategy that eliminated job quotes and established a single wallboard price for the year continues to be very successful.
Wallboard volume increased 14% year-on-year in the third quarter and price was flat in the quarter.
The 1.2 billion square feet of wallboard we shipped in the quarter was the highest since the same quarter in 2009.
We plan to continue this pricing policy in 2013.
We will have a price increase on January 1 and we'll begin communicating that increase to our customers later this quarter.
We did experience some wallboard cost pressures in the quarter due to slight raw material inflation and some planned infrastructure spending.
We were aware of this possibility.
When we implemented our policy of a single price for the year we're satisfied that the incremental profitability from our price improvement has more than offset this inflation.
Our focus on our other core products continues to produce solid results.
Joint Treatment profit was up over $3 million from the third quarter of 2011 and showed improvement from last quarter as well.
We also had positive contributions from our shipping business Gypsum Transportation Limited or GTL.
GTL's profitability improved by $8 million compared to last year as we redeployed our ships to transport iron ore.
Worldwide Ceilings continued its solid performance despite some headwinds.
USG Interiors profit was up approximately $3 million compared to both last quarter and the third quarter of last year.
We also saw a slight increase during the quarter in volume due to the seasonality that we mentioned to you last quarter.
Demand in commercial construction remained soft.
And based on historical McGraw-Hill commercial starts it's likely to remain weak for the near future.
But I'm proud of our team particularly our Ceilings team and their ability to offset this market weakness with innovative high-performance Ceilings products margin improvement and a strong distribution network.
Now turning to our distribution company.
We believe L&amp;W Supply continues to make progress on its path to profitability.
Again we are creating our own recovery pursuing profitable contractor business leveraging shared services such as our new procurement system and reducing our branch footprint to drive towards operating profit.
L&amp;W saw wallboard spread and volume improvement from both last year and last quarter.
Core products beyond wallboard at L&amp;W saw a $4 million improvement in profitability compared to last year.
We will grow this business by focusing on value with an emphasis on systems selling.
Let me be clear.
Despite the fact that distribution is a business that requires velocity to maximize profitability the L&amp;W team is working to achieve profitability now and we have a line of sight to this objective.
I would now like to touch on what we're doing today on our Plan to Win our strategic priorities; strengthening our core business diversifying our earnings and differentiating through innovation.
In the third quarter we made progress on each of these fronts and let me touch on them briefly.
Our focus on strengthening the core can be seen in the results our new wallboard price policy the positive results from our other core businesses.
USG Interiors' strategy in a very soft demand environment and L&amp;W's year-on-year improvement are all evidence we are creating our own recovery.
We will continue these actions with an intense focus on satisfying our customers lowering our breakeven a margin improvement that supports our value proposition.
To continue to strengthen our core we must also organically delever our balance sheet.
We are not satisfied with our debt level.
And now that the recovery has begun we will look to allocate our cash generated over the next few years towards lowering our debt and investing in the business to drive shareholder value.
Our intention is to move towards investment-grade metrics for our balance sheet although the shape of the recovery will dictate the timing of achieving that objective.
The second layer of our strategy is to diversify our earnings.
Last quarter we announced our investment that will enable us to serve the growing market in India.
Staffing and engineering work are underway towards commencing quarry operations in a new wallboard plant late next year or first quarter of 2014.
We believe this investment will position USG to capitalize on high-growth emerging markets but will also help offset some of the cyclicality that's inherent in our core businesses.
We continue to grow our business through innovation with the success of our SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight platform.
This product now represents almost 50% of the total wallboard shipments in the United States during the quarter.
Customer demand has been outstanding which is converting across all channels.
Our customers are attracted by the lighter weight but keep coming back because of the improved performance of this reengineered innovated -- innovative product platform.
We're continuing the rollout of more products such as our new SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight Joint Treatment.
Each pail is nearly 40% lighter than conventional Joint Treatment and we are seeing traction in both the large retailers and specialty dealer channels.
We are also extending the platform across more of our Gypsum Wallboard products with another new release scheduled for next quarter.
Our strategy is simple; strengthen diversify and differentiate to grow USG.
So now I'd like to turn it over to Matt Hilzinger and he will give you a greater detail on the quarter.
Thanks Jim and good morning to all of you.
As Jim mentioned I'll recap third quarter results and provide some additional details in each on our business segments.
Before I begin I want to point out that results from our European operations have been reported in discontinued operations in the third quarter.
In addition our prior results for 2011 and 2012 have been recast to show these prior periods without our European operations.
During the third quarter we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our European operations.
Although that sale has not yet been consummated net sales of $27 million and operating profit of $1 million from European operations in the third quarter have been reported as discontinued operations.
My comments today and our disclosures going forward will reflect these updates.
Results from our European operations had been reported previously entirely within USG International and in our Worldwide Ceilings segment.
Moving on to total corporation results from continuing operations third quarter 2012 net sales were $828 million up 9% from the third quarter last year.
The third quarter operating profit was $29 million which compares to an operating loss of $79 million in the third quarter of 2011.
This quarter's operating profit included $3 million in restructuring and long-lived asset impairment charges.
As you recall the loss last year included restructuring and asset impairment charges of $59 million of which $51 million related to the closure of our Windsor Quarry.
The remaining year-on-year improvement was primarily driven by improved Wallboard gross profits which benefited from higher wallboard prices lower unit costs and higher volume.
Using adjusted operating profit to remove the effects of the Windsor charges last year and restructuring this year we had a $52 million improvement in adjusted operating profit on a $65 million increase in sales resulting in an incremental operating profit margin of 80%.
This continues to build upon the 83% and the 74% incremental margins we saw in Q1 and Q2 of this year and demonstrates the strong operating leverage of USG.
We continued to take steps to lower our breakeven and focus on managing our SG&amp;A expenses.
In the third quarter of 2012 SG&amp;A was $74 million versus $66 million last year.
Our business has performed better in 2012 and our incentive compensation has increased accordingly.
We now expect SG&amp;A to increase approximately 5% for the full year in 2012 versus 2011 after adjusting for Europe which is now in discontinued operations.
I will now provide a little more detail on our third quarter segment results.
Net sales for our North American Gypsum segment increased 14% to $496 million for the quarter and operating profit was $35 million versus an operating loss last year of $70 million.
These results were driven by improvement in many of our products and businesses.
A few of the key contributions are noted here: Higher U.S.
wallboard price contributed  $24 million; the reduction in U.S.
wallboard manufacturing cost of $10 million due to lower natural gas and lower fixed cost; and $2 million in incremental profit due to wallboard volume improvement.
Our U.S.
Wallboard business shipped 1.2 billion square feet in the quarter an increase of 14% compared to the third quarter of last year and up 4% from the second quarter.
We attribute these increases to overall market improvement and to the continued customer demand for our SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight Panels as our shipments of these panels continue to grow.
Average wallboard selling prices were up over 18% year-on-year with an average realized price for 2012 third quarter of $131.97 per 1 000 square feet compared to $111.66 in the third quarter of 2011 and $132.90 for the second quarter this year.
This was -- there was very little impact this quarter from residual 2011 job quotes as well.
As we mentioned in the past quarterly average wallboard pricing will experience fluctuations throughout the year due to variations in the channel and additional [indiscernible] sales along with freight charges.
As Jim mentioned we will have a price increase on January 1 and we are currently evaluating the appropriate increase.
We are reviewing our forecast on raw material cost notably natural gas and wastepaper and regional demand profiles in setting the price for next year.
And we'll begin to having individual conversations with our customers later in the fourth quarter.
Turning to Worldwide Ceilings our Ceilings business continues to deliver consistent and solid results continuing its track record throughout this downturn of positive operating profit every quarter.
Third quarter net sales of Worldwide Ceilings increased year-over-year by $1 million to $155 million and third quarter segment operating profit from continuing operations was $24 million which was up $5 million from the second quarter.
These results were driven by strong grit and tile margins due to focused shift in the mix to higher-end products and strategic pricing actions that offset input cost increases and slightly lower volume.
Tile and grit volume decreased in the low-single digits year-on-year but did see an increase from Q2 2012 as we had the benefit of some seasonality.
In our Building Products Distribution segment net sales increased 6% year-on-year for the third quarter with the same-store sales up nearly 10% a sign that our branch rationalization efforts are delivering results.
The operating loss in this year's third quarter decreased to $10 million from $17 million a year ago.
As L&amp;W continues to expand and grow its product portfolio outside of wallboard we believe that this will help our customers strengthen our results.
L&amp;W wallboard price and volume were up in the quarter contributing $3 million in incremental gross profit versus the third quarter of 2011 even while competition among distributors remains a factor.
All 4 products had sales improvements from last year with wallboard having a 5% increase in volume and a 10% increase in spread.
L&amp;W also closed 12 branches this quarter further evidence of our commitment to returning to profitability.
Now I'll add some details on corporate spending and what we've been doing to manage capital spending in our balance sheet including liquidity.
We are forecasting about $75 million of capital spending for the year of 2012 plus $60 million in investments in and loans to joint ventures this year which includes Oman.
We have spent $34 million of those investments at the end -- as of the end of the third quarter.
And as we look at liquidity as of September 30 2012 we had total liquidity of $781 million an increase of $36 million from the end of the second quarter.
Let me conclude by saying that while we are pleased to have continued our positive operating profit in every quarter of 2012 with our highest operating profit for the year in the third quarter we remain focused on achieving positive cash flow and net earnings as quickly as possible.
We will continue to manage our cost and endeavor to lower the breakeven of each business while investing in those businesses that will general -- generate an appropriate return on invested capital.
At this time I'd like to turn it back over to Jim.
Thank you.
Thank you Matt.
I'd like to before we go into Q&amp;A just give you some of our early thoughts on 2013.
As I said earlier we believe that we have finally turned the corner and we're seeing the early stages of a recovery in our market.
The increase in housing starts same-store sales increases at both retail and specialty dealer partner and commercial construction starts are beginning a gradual improvement in 2013 all are evidence of this trend.
We believe that housing will continue to improve but we do and we could experience some headwinds because of some industry staffing that affects truck drivers for distribution hourly plant employees and general construction labor that have left the market.
While our wallboard capacity utilization remains in the mid-50% range our effective capacity utilization is closer to 80%.
We believe the recovery is going to be very regional and lead times may be extended due to challenges of staffing up as we see regional increases in demand.
We want to be confident of a sustained recovery before we start the hiring process which can take anywhere between 3 and 6 months.
Also availability of credit may also dampen the recovery lower availability of working capital for our customers challenges with contractor receivables and the ability for homeowners to qualify for mortgages may impact the rate of growth next year.
We believe the commercial recovery will lag residential.
McGraw-Hill Construction starts overall have been relatively flat in 2012 with some segments showing improvement while others still remain relatively weak.
The office segment has improved throughout the year and we will benefit our commercial business in 2013 as we ship products approximately 12 to 18 months after a commercial start.
Other segments like retail are stabilizing but have not yet begun to grow.
As we look to 2013 we believe we'll see growth in new residential construction although commercial and repair and remodel are likely to remain soft.
New household formation will drive this increase in demand and even if moderated by the factors that I've just covered.
I'm pleased with our progress this year and feel positive as we look into 2013 but I want to assure you we still have work to do.
Now I'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I did want to though focus on a couple of moving pieces within the North American Gypsum segment specifically the declining margins in the U.S.
Gypsum company for 2 quarters now.
Sequentially if you could kind of review -- you're at -- excluding charges you're at 8.1% in the first quarter then 7.3% last quarter and now 6.0% this quarter.
So if you could review the drivers of that and if you expect that to continue further into 4Q.
And also if the GTL profit -- is that something that's sustainable that we should margin -- model in each quart -- now going forward or is it more of a one-time 1 quarter type of event? Thanks Michael.
Let me just touch on the GTL briefly.
We -- that GTL profitability is -- will be solid as we go forward.
We have a greater arrangement transporting iron ore.
It is under contract.
And you will see GTL profitability throughout the business here.
On the margins a couple of things have happened throughout the year.
In the first quarter we delayed some plant infrastructure because we weren't sure how the first quarter was going to play out.
We had a new pricing strategy in.
We weren't sure how weather was going to be.
If you recall a year prior we had a terrible winter.
We were very fortunate with a very mild winter.
But we held off some planned infrastructure spending that we knew we would have to do particularly in the back half of the year.
So that's really one big segment you -- charge you saw that impacted margins in the third quarter.
Also we have a little bit of raw material inflation from 3Q versus 2Q.
So we feel that that has moderated the infrastructure spending that was planned.
And our strategy and our plan is Michael as we said both with Matt's comments and mine we're very focused on net earnings for the corporation.
So we need to continue to grow our margins in the Gypsum segment as well as the other segments.
So not to give you a projection but our focus is net earnings as soon as possible and you can't get the net earnings if your margins are going the wrong way.
Michael it's Matt Hilzinger.
I just want to add on GTL.
So last year we had about an $8 million loss.
And this year we're expecting to have income of around $11 million so a $19 million turnaround.
And the way to think about it as we go into next year is that it's going to generate somewhere around $11 million of operating profit.
The timing of that could vary by quarter but I don't want you to take the $8 million delta right now and view that as that's what's going to come through each quarter going forward.
So think about it as $11 million of operating profit kind of on a going forward basis.
Our next question comes from Dan Oppenheim from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was just thinking about the cost if we look at that in terms of natural gas.
How much -- if you think about what could be achieved next year for pricing how much is that being based on -- you touched now about the margins so if you think about the cost situation.
How much do you think that will drive on pricing versus -- offsetting it versus getting a lot more in terms of margin area? We -- as Matt said in his prepared comments we're looking at a few factors.
Natural gas and any raw material input are very very important.
As we get closer to the end of the year we're going to be a heck of a lot smarter.
We look at wastepaper cost natural gas cost.
And as everyone knows natural gas is at historically low levels.
We do lock in some of these low factor costs so we have a pretty good grasp of where natural gas will be.
We also look at the regional demand.
As I said in my prepared comments we think the market is going to come back kind of in an uneven format.
So we're looking at regionality.
So all of those factors go into our pricing.
And natural gas probably is one of the raw materials that we have the best insight on as we get into 2013 and we still think it's going to be at some fairly low levels.
Our next question comes from Trey Grooms from Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> With price increases coming early next year do you guys think that you're seeing any prebuying with the distributors at this point? What we did -- we're a lot smarter this year going through it.
We started about 30 days ago Trey and we put in a controlled distribution policy for our customers.
So we would not see a lot of surge-buying in the fourth quarter.
So we pretty much have our operating network lined out for the next 1.5 months which helps us from an efficiency standpoint.
So we think we're going to see some very nice efficiencies at our plants.
We're in constant contact with our customers with what their needs are going to be in the fourth quarter and they know what they can expect from us.
So we don't see any surge-buying from our customers because they know there's a ceiling on what they can purchase.
Research Division</strong> Great that's very helpful.
And then just one follow-up could you talk a little bit about -- as much detail as you can anyway about kind of how the volume progressed through the quarter on the wallboard business? Well we -- as I mentioned we were up 14% and we had a pretty -- it was a pretty smooth -- we had more shipping days obviously in September but -- or excuse me in August.
But it wasn't real choppy.
As I said 1st of September we put our customers on controlled distribution.
We kind of knew what the daily rate would be.
So it -- I'd have to tell you we look at the daily rate every day and we have a very extensive supply chain organization that looks at the forecasting from our salespeople all the way through to really -- so we can run our network efficiently.
But more importantly we want to have on-time delivery with our customers.
So a long answer to your question it was -- our daily rate was pretty steady throughout the quarter.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
The -- as you mentioned your volume of shipments were up 15% or so but the distribution volumes for Gypsum were only up 5%.
Can you explain the variance there? Yes.
If you look at L&amp;W Supply and we've talked about it in previous calls we have really moved the L&amp;W on a really very focused approach.
Their value -- L&amp;W's value is really as I like to say is where we can win and where we can in L&amp;W is in the commercial space.
We don't have lumber.
We don't have residential roofing steel studs commercial insulation.
Our value of L&amp;W Supply is stocking material into very difficult commercial jobs.
That's where our value and that's where our customers pay us.
If you look at the commercial opportunity numbers that I was referring to earlier the opportunity in the commercial segment lags residential.
So that is one of the drivers.
The second driver is L&amp;W has shed some business.
The focus of getting L&amp;W to profitability as soon as possible.
We have segmented a lot of customers that where we can provide value and they pay us for the value we are going to do business with them.
So there was some market shedding of unprofitable business.
And as I indicated we had price improvement at L&amp;W quarter-on-quarter.
So it's market opportunity where we're positioned as a value player and also getting margin improvement on Wallboard.
Okay.
So you do not think that there was any inventory build either by distributors or any of your customers to the mills? No as I said in the previous -- with the previous caller we've had our customers on controlled distribution since early September.
So they physically cannot do that.
Okay.
And just really quick the tax rate can you explain what we -- what the tax rate in the fourth quarter is going to look? And then also once you start making money what will the book tax rate be and then presumably the cash tax rate is a whole lot lower? Now before we answer that and I think you're on the fourth question so this is okay we have a lot of people in queue or maybe that was a 1 question with 3 parts.
So I'm going to assume that's 1 question with 3 parts.
Trey this is Matt Hilzinger.
So I would start with saying look I -- our view for the full year in terms of tax expense is going to be somewhere between $8 million and $12 million and that's primarily tax on our International business.
We pay virtually no tax in the U.S.
side.
The tax rate specifically in the third quarter gets very complicated with some rules around how you allocate a loss when you’ve got a loss and a couple of periods of losses.
So I won't get into that.
I think the main thing to think about is $8 million to $12 million for the balance of the year.
Now when we think about the future when we start making net income we have about a 2.2 -- we'll have about a $2.2 billion net income at the federal level and we also have NOLs at the state level.
So as we start to make net income we will continue to be a taxpayer on international operations like we are now but we won't pay taxes up until the point that we chew through about $2.1 billion $2.2 billion of net income.
I mean that generates and shields a large amount of cash.
And so that's how I would think about it going forward.
Right.
And that -- is that also booked or is that just for cash taxes? That's for book as well.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie.
This GTL profit that you discussed it's a pretty large portion of operating profit.
So I just wanted to get more color in terms of whether this was just temporary until demand normalizes in wallboard or is this a permanent part of the segment as the seasonal slowing in wallboard and a seasonal pickup in iron ore stocking is part of the year? Well this is -- we have redeployed our ships and these ships were typically part of our vertically integrated system taking rock from Nova Scotia to our Eastern plants.
As you've seen the market has changed to synthetic gypsum.
And with the market demand being down we could not use those ships and it was -- as Matt said earlier it was a big negative to our profit.
Our team was very creative to look at different uses.
They are very specialized ships.
And we have entered into a contract on iron ore for specific footage -- or excuse me tonnage over the next few years.
So it will be a fairly steady stream of profits.
It's similar to a synthetic gypsum contract but the other way around.
And we have a contract to transport a certain amount of tonnage.
We know that that tonnage is each year going forward at a profit.
So it won't be the bulge that you saw because we were just getting started but it will be a fairly steady profit for GTL which will -- that's part of the North American Gypsum segment.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow Research.
I have a question on L&amp;W margins.
You had about 12% incrementals this quarter a little bit lighter than what we saw over the last couple of quarters a little bit lighter than what we tend to see in a recovery.
I'm just wondering if you could maybe provide a little bit more color on incremental margins in the third quarter at L&amp;W and how we should think about that going forward? Sure.
If you kind of -- if you saw on the slides we have there -- L&amp;W had about a $5 million in the quarter of -- I'd like to refer to it as non-operational impact.
So we had some administrative costs.
We also had some additional overhead costs because of the corporation's improved performance.
So if you back that $5 million out the -- incrementally quarter-on-quarter instead of a $10 million you had a $5 million lost.
So there was improvement as we went sequentially quarter-to-quarter.
Wallboard spread went up quarter-to-quarter.
Comp store sales were up.
Steel and complementary products margins were up.
So L&amp;W -- the key is getting margin improvement in wallboard in the market regardless of what their -- we have -- if you have a price increase of any of the product lines that's getting margin improvement there and getting paid for value.
So our plan as I said earlier we have a line of sight on L&amp;W on operating profit.
And that -- I'm very impatient quite frankly that we aren't there yet but I'm very confident that the team has a very focused approach to get there.
We have taken out almost half of the branches.
If you go back the last 4 years we have a smaller footprint but the good news is we have a much more efficient footprint and we have a value proposition in the market that we haven't had in the last few years.
So I am confident we're going to continue to improve margins.
And if you back out those one-time charges I think it may clarify some of your concerns.
That's helpful.
So just to clarify those -- that $5 million is not going to be repeated in the fourth quarter going forward? That's not the plan correct.
Our next question comes from Neil Frohnapple from Northcoast Research.
Pertaining to wallboard have you seen volumes pick up thus far in October? Particularly in the big-box area are you still not seeing that seasonal pop here that you historically experienced prior to the downturn? Well it's interesting.
We have seen some seasonality this year in general in the business.
But it's kind of -- it's going to be kind of masked because we were on controlled distribution as I said earlier.
We do follow our big retail customers' comp store sales and it's still pretty soft.
It's still pretty soft.
This typically is a big season when getting out of lawn and garden and coming inside.
And our big-box customers has some very focused plans here.
But as I said earlier they don't play a lot in the new residential.
So the repair and remodel still to use your term we haven't seen the pop.
It can be masked -- it could be masked because again we are trying to eliminate any type of inventory surges from -- in the channel.
So we think we're looking at very low-single digit R&amp;R growth as we get into 2013.
It's really any type of demand increases.
Right now it's going to be led by what we're seeing with housing.
Our next question comes from Jack Kasprzak with BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> Jim you mentioned effective capacity utilization in the industry is over 80% as companies have shuttered lines of existing plants.
But with the surge in housing starts we saw yesterday the industry is likely going to have to start to bring on some capacity along I think next year.
You mentioned the lag time.
But how do you manage that process of bringing on step function increases in capacity without jeopardizing the pricing environment? That's a great question.
Let me just clarify when I was talking about effective capacity of 80% that is USG's effective capacity.
We know our staffing levels.
So I just want to make sure that I'm clear that was not an industry number.
If you look at the housing start numbers yesterday they were very positive.
And we've had a nice trend here.
And I think 850 000 to 900 000 starts is a very solid number.
But housing starts is only part of the story.
If you look at the gypsum opportunity for demand into 2013 we're still at some very very low levels.
If you're looking at opportunity anywhere between 19.5 billion and 20 billion feet those are historically low levels.
We know our network and we have as I said earlier a very well run strategic sourcing and planning network of how we run our network -- how we run our plants and we can run our plants with some overtime.
We can run our plants if we do have to add a shift.
It isn't adding capacity.
And we are going to be extremely extremely careful and quite frankly as the CEO I need to be convinced that any type of recovery is sustainable.
We have a long lag of bringing people back.
They have -- we're in outlying areas and people have left the jobs.
So as I said it's anywhere 3 4 to 6 months to bring people back.
So we have to be extremely confident that this isn't a false-positive.
And as I said in my comments there still are some signs we're being very very conservative.
So adding plants back is not in the plan for us in 2013 do not see it happening.
In adding a shift or staff we have to be extremely confident in that region that it's sustainable because it is very expensive to hire people and quite frankly I -- the last thing I hate to do is get rid of people.
So this is something -- we're going to run our network very very tight.
That's why it's important we stay in touch with our customers on their demand.
And quite frankly with our organization we have the widest sales organization and I believe the best sales organization in the field that calls on the customers every day.
So we are in touch with individual demand ups and downs.
So we're still cautiously optimistic.
The housing start number was good but that's only part of the story.
R&amp;R is still weak commercial still weak and the overall demand is going to be up but not at any historical levels.
Our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson from Thomson Research.
LLC.</strong> On the core manufacturing side but focusing on L&amp;W -- I know that this has been a division that's been a little bit of a nag to say the least over the past several years.
My question to you why would you keep this division particularly in light -- and at the peak of the market it generated roughly 1/3 of the margins of your core manufacturing wallboard manufacturing group? Why keep such a meaningfully lower margin business even if we do have a meaningful recovery in the overall construction industry? Well let me be clear on the L&amp;W.
We view L&amp;W as a strategic part of the corporation.
And they have had -- and L&amp;W has had 70% of their business their demand that was hit in the last 4 years.
They are not really in the retail business.
And as I said earlier the focus is really commercial construction.
We think through the cycle L&amp;W makes the portfolio stronger.
L&amp;W has as I like to say it lends to the contractor provides margin on products we don't manufacture.
We used to be in the steel stud business where we made about 5% gross and L&amp;W is one of the largest distributors of steel studs.
It makes the corporation smarter.
We are on the ground everyday talking to contractors.
We aren't hearing it second and third hand through other distribution.
And L&amp;W I believe is industry-leading in safety.
So L&amp;W is a key part.
And Kathryn we -- actually in the last 4 years we looked at every business we have and looked at the strategic value throughout the cycle as a part of our portfolio and we did a lot of due diligence with the management team as well as our Board.
And we feel through the cycle at the top of that cycle L&amp;W made $150 million to $200 million of operating profit.
And we feel that they are a key part of our business.
They make us a better company for our other customers because we sit in their seat.
We know how important working capital is safety workmen's comp all of the things that our other customers have to deal with.
So we've had a tough row.
We've made some very difficult decisions here and L&amp;W just made some decisions this quarter of taking some additional branches out.
So be patient the results are going to speak for themselves.
And I think through the cycle it makes USG a much better play.
LLC.</strong> Yes.
I guess just as a follow-up I was speaking in terms of targeting optimal returns.
So as you said in the peak it generated an EBIT of $150 million to $200 million.
I think peak EBIT was 8%.
But peak EBIT for your manufacturing operations were north of 20%.
So...
Right.
LLC.</strong> I was thinking in terms of when you're looking out in terms of ROIC if that was in the cards and if you will consider it just from a returns basis? Well actually -- no that's a great question.
And we are definitely looking in each business from an ROIC perspective particularly where we invest.
We probably -- in the past we had kind of a 1 ROIC number for the corporation.
And the investments in distribution will be quite different from a hurdle rate than it would be manufacturing.
If you look at the gross margin percentage the margin percentage of L&amp;W compared to like customers in that segment distribution is a high-single digit business.
But again throughout the entire portfolio we do believe it provides value.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> This is more of maybe a historical question.
But I think at the end of last year or early part of this year when you tried to help investors understand the incremental leverage in the business you kind of pointed back to the '02 timeframe where incremental margins across the whole portfolio were plus 80% and that seems to be where you're coming out today as well.
But when we think forward as far as what the next lag or recovery looks like in '03 revenues were up utilization rates were strong pricing was flattish but you saw a 20%-type decline in operating profit.
So I'm just curious if you could go back and maybe use that as an example of what happened then that we won't see happen now? And then just as we think about those incrementals in the second or third leg of the recovery how should we think about that relative to what we're seeing today? If you go back you talked about 2002 2003 actually I think we went back 1 prior cycle of that was the early '90s and the leverage was a low of 35% to a high of 50% 55%.
And that's kind of -- from a historical standpoint we were using that as kind of a foundation of -- as we look forward.
We were pleasantly surprised actually in the last 3 quarters that it's been as Matt indicated in the 80s 80%.
And the reason it's different is those last 2 cycles and yours truly was in the middle of those 2 cycles is when we took cost out we took cost out of primarily U.S.
Gypsum and only the manufacturing side.
This cycle as I've just indicated in the previous caller Kathryn is we've taken out a tremendous amount of cost and lowered our breakeven with L&amp;W Supply as well.
So not to give you a projection going forward we like to say historically anywhere from $0.35 to $0.50 of the last 2 recessions and we've taken out over $0.5 billion in cost this time.
And as I said earlier we're continuing to take some additional cost out.
So I truly hope the leverage is even more than what you see.
Research Division</strong> What -- do you remember what it was specifically in '03 where even within the American Gypsum segment you saw a 20% decline in profit even though revenue was up high-single digits? I don't have that in front of me.
But if you want to follow up with Ken we can take you all the way back there.
Just off the top of my head we also -- I know wallboard pricing and that -- it may not hit the exact year but there was a -- wallboard pricing was fluctuating.
But we can give you all those historical numbers.
I just -- I can't go back that far.
I have a good memory but not that good.
Our next question comes from Jim Barrett from CL King &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The one question I had some of our industry contacts are claiming that the price premium for UltraLight has disappeared.
Is that accurate in your view as you're seeing your price realization on that product? Well we still -- we're still getting our value for UltraLight.
We do have -- one of the things we've looked at Jim is we were still adamant on our 2-skew strategy.
We have our regular SHEETROCK wallboard which quite frankly our regular SHEETROCK not UltraLight a regular SHEETROCK is as light or lighter than some of our competitors' lightweight which is kind of interesting.
The second thing is where a customer does not want to pay the premium for UltraLight we give them a choice that they can buy "the Classic." So we are still getting the premium in the market.
And there may be some confusion between SHEETROCK Regular and SHEETROCK UltraLight.
We're also expanding the portfolio.
We're -- our 5/8 commercial business for UltraLight is really growing.
We talked about almost 50% of our overall wallboard is UltraLight but we're seeing some great traction and our UltraLight 30-minute is now nationwide.
Our 5/8 X is growing in the Eastern United States and we will soon be expanding that nationwide.
And we're going to be announcing some additional wallboard products with the UltraLight portfolio coming up in the next quarter.
So we're investing in our customers and innovation and we're going to continue to get price -- a price premium.
Our next question is from Peter Lisnic from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> First question just in terms of investment cost that you've alluded to a little bit earlier in the call it sounds like with increased confidence in end market improvement that you've maybe opened the door a little bit for some spending.
Can you give us a feel for -- as you look to 2013 is there anything there on that front that could be material that could dampen incremental operating leverage next year? I'm going to turn it over to Matt in a second but let me -- I want to stress something lowering our breakeven.
Even seeing a recovery we said we're starting to begin seeing signs is absolutely critical.
We're looking at as I said earlier we're- - we've moved a lot of personnel out of the field from a -- and have a shared services model.
It is less -- it's less staff.
So we're going to continue to push that down.
We are very diligent on if we have a good investment where is it going to come.
I'd like to use that term weed and feed.
Some of the incremental as Matt said we're looking at maybe 5% increase in overhead this year.
That quite frankly is because most of it is that of our improved performance.
We did not pay an incentive to the management team last year because we did not make any money and I put -- I really focus on the organization that we had to have operating profit in 2012.
That's something on this call last year we talked about I'm very focused on 2012.
So we are very very stingy on SG&amp;A.
And it's not just SG&amp;A but the overall cost a fixed cost.
But let me have Matt just give you a few metrics.
Yes.
So as we think about where we are now and where we are in 2013 yes we are making some investments and some additional cost investments in shared services.
I think Jim has talked about bringing in some of the field folks into a shared services organization.
There is some additional costs to get that implemented so we're incurring some of those now and we’ll incur some of those in 2013.
But on a net-net basis there ought to be and will be cost savings there.
There will be some additional investments in Oman and India as we continue to grow those businesses.
And again we would expect to see benefits coming out of that.
And we're going to look at some strategic investments in IT.
We think IT is a strategic weapon.
It’s something that is important that we continue to take a look at.
So the investments that we're making are focused on either generating revenue growth or bringing our cost down.
And as Jim said we are focused on bringing the breakeven of this company down and that's what we're going to do but it will require a little bit of investment.
Our next question comes from Desi DiPierro from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm just calling in for Bob.
In the Energy segment you used -- in the slide it says there's $10 million of wallboard cost benefit are there -- other than natural -- lower natural gas prices was there anything else that contributed to that? Desi it's Matt Hilzinger.
The other thing that we've seen is fixed cost continued to be a benefit to us.
So as we've continued to drive down cost again it kind of flows into the last answer to the last question.
We will continue to drive down to lower our breakeven and our fixed costs are going down.
So you're seeing -- we're seeing a benefit there.
So when we look at where a lot of the benefit came from it's from around natural gas prices and [indiscernible] cost.
Our next question comes from Seth Yeager from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In your prepared commentary you mentioned the goal of returning back to investment-grade.
Just following up on that and looking at your cash usage going forward can you just give us a sense as to what CapEx and cash going towards your investments in India and Oman we can think about for next year? And any additional asset sales you're looking at? Yes.
So first we aren't looking at right now any additional asset sales.
So when we -- and we aren't prepared right now to give CapEx for next year.
But we said there will be about a $60 million spend at least our portion for opening up Oman that's both the quarry and the plant.
We're going to spend about $45 million of that this year and we'll have about $15 million moved in to next year and those will be up and running in the second half of next year.
So Jim did outline the -- our goal to be investment-grade and I would put it in really kind of 2 goals from our perspective -- from my perspective.
One is to delever the company.
We've got about $3 billion of debt all in all funded debt and about $100 million of equity and that's clearly too much.
So we want to delever to investment-grade metrics.
We want to do that organically through cash flow from operations and we want to simplify the capital structure.
Those are really our 3 objectives and that's going to be dependent partly on the recovery Jim had talked about but that's clearly our goal.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could sneak in a follow-up just from a cost of capital standpoint would the -- beyond the 9.75% of '14 would the converts be the next logical target when those are callable? Yes we are looking at those.
We have not made a decision but they're callable in December of '13.
If we call them then the bond holders have a choice to either take cash or stock.
The stock is clearly in the money.
That would be another step for us to delever the balance sheet and it's something that we're considering right now.
But we haven't made a final decision on that but clearly that's a way for us to take another step to delever right now.
I appreciate everyone's question.
And as I wrap our hour with you as we've achieved our best quarter of operating profits since 2007 we do believe we've turned the corner.
The recovery though is going to be choppy and I indicated that earlier.
But I wanted to assure you we do have contingency plans if the market goes the wrong way.
As I said I feel better this year and even more positive of what 2013 will deliver to our shareholders.
I'm very pleased though on our entire organization.
We've been through a half a decade of a recession and we remained focused on our customers during this slowdown.
And to our customers that are listening or on the line I just would like to say thank you and we appreciate your business.
But I think we all know particularly the USG people we still have work that needs to be done.
We will continue executing our Plan to Win.
And as I've said earlier we are going to continue to create our own recovery.
Hopefully you'll see from the results that in last few years as we moved forward that we're very focused on positive net earnings.
We've had 3 quarters of operating profit that's only our first step.
And this management team is very very focused on getting net earnings to USG corporation as soon as possible.
As always I really appreciate your time your interest in USG and we'll look forward to catching up with you next quarter.
Thank you.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Friday October 26.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the USG Corporation Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Ken Banas.
Mr.
Banas you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's fourth quarter 2012 earnings conference call and live webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the investor information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management’s current views and assumptions of our business markets and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
With me today to discuss our results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the quarter and the year for the corporation and the business segments.
We'll then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
[Operator Instructions] Jim? Thank you Ken.
Good morning.
I appreciate everyone joining us and your interest in USG.
I'm looking forward to giving you a quick update on the quarter as well as what we're currently seeing in the market and into 2013.
In Q4 we had the best quarter for our Wallboard business in a few years with volume we haven't seen since 2009 and pricing at 2007 levels.
This is evidence that our plan is working and we continue to see a recovery in our core markets.
We had positive adjusted operating profit for the fourth quarter in a row only missing positive EBIT due to restructuring and asset impairment charges brought on by our continued cost reduction activities.
Despite demand in the U.S.
that's well below historical levels we're making strides towards our primary objective of positive net income.
There are 3 reasons our earnings were lower in Q4 than the previous 3 quarters.
First and most significantly was seasonality.
Second was a continued drop in commercial activity which primarily impact our Ceilings business at USG Interiors and L&amp;W Supply.
And finally as we planned we increased our infrastructure spending at our manufacturing plant.
Regardless of demand we remain committed to lowering our breakeven.
We're not waiting for the market to fully recover and as I've said before we will continue to create our own recovery.
We've taken out over $0.5 billion in costs including $38 million in additional cost reductions in 2012 by closing L&amp;W branches consolidating our back office and implementing a recent management workforce reduction.
These actions are allowing us to make targeted investments in growth areas offset some inflationary pressures and continue to focus on lowering our breakeven.
Now I'd like to turn to our business units.
In our North American Gypsum segment wallboard results continue to be the primary driver of improved performance.
Wallboard volume increased 12% year-on-year in the fourth quarter.
The wallboard price was up slightly from the third quarter.
With a full year under our belt the results of our new pricing strategy are very positive and our customers are pleased as well.
We've enabled our customers to reduce their back-office costs with a policy that's easier to manage and now we can focus on other ways that we can improve our customer sales and profitability with high levels of service quality and product innovation.
As we said in the past we have implemented the same pricing strategy in 2013 and I'm happy to say we're pleased on what we received so far in the results and we'll give you more details on pricing in the first quarter in our call in April.
Moving on to other core products in North American Gypsum.
Our focus continues to produce solid results.
Joint Treatment had a great fourth quarter with improvements in all categories: volume price and cost.
We also made positive contributions from our shipping business which we talked about last quarter Gypsum Transportation Limited.
GTL profitability improved by $11 million in Q4 compared to last year as we redeployed our ships to transport iron ore.
Worldwide Ceilings had solid performance despite the seasonality I mentioned earlier.
Ceilings had a record year in operating profit in the United States despite continued flat demand.
Worldwide Ceilings profitability was down approximately $3 million compared to the fourth quarter of last year although this drop is consistent with historical fourth quarter performance.
This historical seasonality will point typically to a stronger first quarter and despite choppy demand in the commercial market we are confident the Ceilings business will continue its track record of improved profitability in 2013.
Turning to our distribution business.
L&amp;W Supply improved their operating results in this very difficult commercial market and remains on the path to profitability.
L&amp;W's wallboard spread and volume increased 10% and 8% respectively from last year and core products beyond wallboard saw a $1 million improvement in profitability compared to last year.
L&amp;W has shifted its strategic focus to partner with commercial contractors while still taking advantage of profitable residential opportunities.
With nearly 2/3 of L&amp;W sales coming from commercial construction results will continue to be choppy until more velocity returns to the business.
The L&amp;W team is very focused on delivering value to our customers and returning to profitability as quickly as possible.
And I'm confident we have the right plan to achieve that objective in the near future.
We made excellent progress in our businesses in 2012 and we did so by executing our Plan to Win.
Each of our 3 areas of strategic focus produced results for both the quarter and most importantly for the entire year.
Our commitment to strengthening our core can be seen in the positive operating profit for the year which is our first year of operating profit since 2007.
There are a number of factors that are contributing to our improved performance including our new wallboard pricing strategy lowering product costs across our entire portfolio due to Lean Six Sigma strategic decisions at USG Interiors to modify both the product mix and procurement strategies in a weak demand environment and finally the L&amp;W strategic realignment.
We will continue these actions with an intense focus on satisfying our customers lowering our breakeven and product margin improvement and support our value proposition.
Our second pillar of our strategy is diversify our earnings.
Our joint ventures to serve the growing markets in India are well underway.
Finding new growth markets to offset some of the cyclicality that's inherent in our North American businesses is important as we look to grow in the future.
We're very excited to have launched this opportunity and to be a leader in a key growth market.
Our land and assets critical mass and our local sales team are working together with our globally recognized brands and our technology expertise.
These will serve the needs of our current customers and our future customers in these growth markets.
And finally growing our business through innovation which continues to be one of our strategic priorities with the most visible example as you've seen over the last year or so the success of our SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight platform.
This product now comprises 49% of our total wallboard shipments in the United States in the fourth quarter.
We continue to convert new customers and this platform allows us to strengthen our relationships with existing customers.
Our customers are attracted by the lighter weight but keep coming back for the improved performance on-the-job of this reengineered product.
But this isn't a single product this is a new technology platform.
We've just launched the latest product in this lightweight portfolio.
SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight Mold Tough.
These mold-resistant panels are being well-received by our customers including the Home Depot on the East Coast.
And we will be rolling out Mold Tough across our network during 2013.
Our strategy is comprehensive: strengthen the core diversify our earnings and differentiate innovation.
This is to grow USG.
And now Matt will give you some greater detail on the quarter and on the full year results.
Matt? Thanks Jim and good morning to all of you.
As Jim mentioned I'll recap our fourth quarter and full year results and provide some additional details on each of our business segments.
Before I begin I want to mention that at the end of the fourth quarter we finalized the sale of our European operations with net cash proceeds of $73 million and a gain on sale net of tax of $55 million.
The results from these operations are reported in discontinued operations and past results have been recast to show prior period results without these operations.
As a reminder the results from our European operations have been reported previously and entirely within USG International and our Worldwide Ceilings segment.
Moving on to total corporation results from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2012.
Net sales were $815 million up 12% from the fourth quarter last year.
Our fourth quarter operating loss was $8 million which compares to an operating loss of $43 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
This quarter's operating loss included $13 million in restructuring and long-lived asset impairment charges.
The remaining year-on-year improvement was driven primarily by improved wallboard gross profits which benefited from higher wallboard prices lower unit cost and higher values.
Using adjusted operating profit to remove the effects of restructuring we had a $43 million improvement in adjusted operating profit on an $89 million increase in sales in the fourth quarter resulting in an incremental operating profit margin of 48%.
This is lower than the incremental margins for the first 3 quarters of the year due to the 3 factors that Jim had noted earlier: Seasonality decreased commercial opportunity and planned infrastructure spending as is not uncommon in previous fourth quarters.
Briefly recapping full year 2012 results from continuing operations the total corporation saw an 11% increase in the top line to $3.2 billion and a total year operating profit of $73 million compared to an operating loss last year of $206 million.
Our 2012 total year incremental adjusted operating profit margin was 71% demonstrating the strong operating leverage of USG.
We continue to take steps to lower our breakeven and focus on managing our SG&amp;A expenses.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 SG&amp;A was $80 million versus $76 million last year with the full year SG&amp;A being up about 5% to $304 million.
As we look to 2013 we expect SG&amp;A to have a slight increase as we work to offset inflation with further cost reduction initiatives.
I'll now provide a little more detail on fourth quarter segment results.
Net sales for our North American Gypsum segment increased over 20% to $508 million for the quarter and operating profit was $17 million versus an operating loss last year of $21 million.
These results were driven by improvement in many of our products and businesses.
A few of the key contributors are noted here.
Higher U.S.
wallboard price contributed $24 million; the reduction in U.S.
wallboard manufacturing cost of $7 million due to lower natural gas and lower fixed costs; and $11 million in incremental profit due to our GTL shipping business.
In 2013 we anticipate the operating profit for GTL to be recognized in a manner similar to 2012 with a loss in Q1 turning into a net gain for the year of approximately $11 million.
Our U.S.
Wallboard business shipped 1.22 billion square feet in the quarter an increase of 12% compared to the fourth quarter last year and up 2% from the third quarter.
We believe the increase in volumes in the fourth quarter when we would typically see seasonality and lower volumes is evidence of the continued recovery in underlying demand for our products.
We had an average realized price for 2012 fourth quarter of $132.26.
As we have mentioned in the past quarterly average wallboard pricing will experience fluctuations throughout the year due to variations in the channel and regional mix of sales along with freight charges.
Turning to Worldwide Ceilings.
Our Ceilings business delivered a typical fourth quarter of positive operating profit for 2012.
Fourth quarter net sales for Worldwide Ceilings increased year-on-year by $1 million to $141 million although fourth quarter segment operating profit from continuing operations was $14 million down $3 million from the prior year.
As we discussed in the past our commercial opportunity remains choppy and we also saw some seasonality that is typical in this business.
In the fourth quarters of 2009 and 2010 the operating profit for USG Interiors dropped on average over 50% which is what we saw again this year.
We believe we will continue to experience a return to a more typical seasonal cycle in this business which would include a solid first quarter as Jim had mentioned earlier.
In our building products distribution segment net sales increased 7% year-on-year for the fourth quarter with same-store sales up nearly 13% a sign that our branch rationalization efforts are delivering results.
The operating loss in this year's fourth quarter decreased $10 million from $15 million a year ago.
L&amp;W increased wallboard spread and volume and saw a gross profit improvement in other core products as well.
Now I'll add some details on corporate spending and what we have been doing to manage capital spending in our balance sheet including liquidity.
We had $70 million of capital spending for the full year of 2012 plus $34 million of funding into Oman India and our joint ventures.
In 2013 we will complete the $60 million spend in Oman that we previously disclosed.
Including this spend we plan to show total cash outflows of $175 million on capital spending and investments for joint ventures in the investing section of our cash flow statement.
We consider $110 million of that total to be capital expenditures in the normal course of our business as compared to $70 million we spent in 2012.
The other $65 million in 2013 is capital spending for Oman and other joint ventures.
We expect a portion of this $65 million to be offset by a loan from our Oman partner in the financing section of our cash flow statement as they will provide funding for their ownership share of the capital outflows for Oman.
Finally as of December 31 2012 we had total liquidity of $874 million an increase of $93 million from the end of the third quarter and an increase of $40 million from a year ago.
As we head into 2013 we continue to benefit from low natural gas prices.
Through a combination of options and swaps we are now almost 90% hedged for this year.
The legacy hedges from when gas was above $9 per decatherm have completely rolled off.
Based on the forward curve and our current hedge position we would anticipate our total 2013 natural gas spend to be slightly above our total 2012 expenditure of $3.57 per decatherm.
In 2013 we are planning to contribute about $70 million to our pension plans worldwide which is slightly higher than our 2012 contributions.
Regarding taxes we are anticipating a tax expense for all of USG of $8 million to $12 million with cash taxes being the same.
This represents taxes paid on foreign earnings as we will pay no U.S.
federal income tax in 2013.
Let me conclude by saying that while we are pleased to have delivered positive operating profit in 2012 we remain focused on achieving positive cash flow and net income as quickly as possible.
We will continue to manage our costs and endeavor to lower the breakeven of each business while investing in those businesses that will generate an appropriate return on invested capital.
At this time I'd like to turn it back to you Jim.
Thanks Matt.
I'd like to take a few minutes before Q&amp;A and just share a few thoughts on 2012 but most importantly what we are seeing as we move into 2013.
2012's residential opportunity did exceed our expectations with housing starts at 780 000 which was an increase of over 28%.
This was off a very low base and still well below historical trough levels.
As I said a year ago we'd rather be conservative on our housing projections.
Blue chip consensus for starts in 2013 is 950 000 and we've already seen 954 000 in the numbers in December.
For our planning purposes we are forecasting around 900 000 starts.
With current USG capacity utilization rates in the mid-50s for 2012 we are well-positioned to take any part of the share of an upside.
This conservative estimate and it's really important that we want to be conservative because we want to continue to keep focused on our efficiencies our cost reductions that require us to lower our breakeven as Matt and I had been mentioning in our comments.
With our wallboard effective capacity utilization in the mid-80s we do have some plants that are running near a point where they're at full capacity with current shifts.
While our current forecast does not required any tiring at a facility it wouldn't be a surprise to have a shift or 2 added some time in 2013 depending of course on the regional shape of the recovery.
With capacity utilization in the low 60% range for the fourth quarter as an industry we have plenty of excess capacity available with these additional resources.
With 50% of our business serving new commercial and commercial repair and remodel markets we are encouraged to see some signs of a recovery albeit it's lagging residential.
Looking at McGraw-Hill Construction starts they were only up slightly in 2012 with some segments showing some improvements while others remain relatively weak.
Forecasts are for mid-single-digit increases in 2013 with even a larger uptick the following year in 2014.
We believe we still have a few quarters of some choppy commercial opportunity ahead of us as the macroeconomic factors such as weak job growth and the debt ceiling and international growth weigh on investments in this sector.
Our repair and remodel activity should also begin to see some improvement in 2013 with current projections around 4% improvement in opportunity.
We're also pleased with our partnerships in the segment.
We believe we're with the strongest partners and we plan to grow with each one of these customers.
We believe the soft volumes we saw for some of our products in the fourth quarter were due to typical seasonality and this is really an evidence of an improving market not a faltering one.
I'm very excited about our opportunity ahead in 2013 and I will say I feel much better today than I did this time last year.
I believe that 2013 will be a great transition year for USG one where we are moving from creating our recovery to building of a recovery.
I'd like now to open it up to questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie.
I noticed your year-on-year wallboard cost improvement moved to $7 million in the fourth quarter from $10 million in the prior 2.
Could you give us some color in terms of what that change was or whether you anniversaried earlier cost takeout? We have done a phenomenal job on cost reduction out of wallboard plants.
As I mentioned earlier we've put in Lean Six Sigma efficiencies.
We did have -- natural gas did help us from a raw material standpoint.
But we have been running our very low-cost plants very efficiently and in those plants have been quite busy.
So I think some of that regionality that I talked about in the past really fell into some of our plants that are very low-cost and we ran them very well.
We're continuing to focus on wallboard cost efficiencies.
We can -- raw materials go up and down but we feel that as we can leverage technology leverage our innovation utilize less water we really have a focus on our manufacturing facilities of sustainability which is very very important.
So this was just continued improvement in wallboard cost efficiencies and that's something that we're extremely focused on.
Okay.
And can you also provide -- you've provided the color for natural gas can you talk about any expected changes next year for OCC paper cost or other materials? Yes thank you.
Go ahead Matt.
[indiscernible] talk about...
Hi Mike this is Matt Hilzinger.
So as Jim said what we've done for 2011 and 2012 has been fantastic.
We are starting to see a little bit of inflation in the marketplace and some inflation in some of our materials.
As I said natural gas is going to be up slightly from 2012.
We see paper going up a little bit from 2012.
We see wages going up a little bit into '13 from 2012.
So we're starting to see some inflationary pressures but as Jim said all the things we're doing around lowering our breakeven particularly around the manufacturing side with Lean Six Sigma we're going to do everything we can to offset those inflationary pressures.
So as I had -- I think we've said before just to reiterate to everybody energy is about 10% of the input cost paper is about 25% rock is about 20% other raw materials another 10%.
So that's about 30% on kind of rock and other materials.
Labor is about 15% and fixed is about 20%.
So that will give you a sense of how to kind of think about if you want to model those.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was on the USG Interiors margins.
You noted that the sequential decline was kind of in line with '09 and 2010 but if you go back even further I think some years it was more stable or down just a little bit and in other years had a similar type of drop off.
So with that said I mean do you attribute most of the decline to just your negative effects from lower revenues or were there some other costs that were creeping in that had a negative effect than -- would that then effect a year-over-year comparison as well to -- for the first quarter? Yes Michael.
Your assessment is very accurate.
The main driver of the fourth quarter was volume.
And if you look at the quarter-on-quarter comparison it was volume -- it was actually in all areas particularly our high-end which focuses on office construction which is tied into job growth.
There was as Matt said a little bit of inflation.
Quite frankly that had to do with running less products through our manufacturing plants.
So a little bit of slight manufacturing increase is because of the volume drop but the seasonality and the top line volume was really the key.
The unit volume was really the key to the results.
We're very optimistic.
The Ceilings business is extremely profitable.
They just came off a record year.
They beat the year prior which was I think the second best year ever.
And if you look at the unit or the revenue the last 4 or 5 years it's really been flat.
So any type of wind in our back on commercial will help us.
We still think we have a few choppy quarters ahead of us.
But from a profitability standpoint we're still very optimistic about the Ceilings business and it contributed to the corporate profitability into 2013.
Research Division</strong> So then just to...
Michael we have quite a few in queue here and what I'd like to do is take your follow-up if we have time please.
Just look at the list here and I'd like to get everyone on board if you wouldn't mind.
Our next question comes from Bob Wetenhall from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just had one question and I just want a little bit of clarification because the disclosure is terrific.
So I'm on board with what you're saying about incremental margin performance in U.S.
Gypsum.
The reason it went down is really seasonal plus some infrastructure cost that you took and we would be looking for better incremental margin performance more consistent with 1Q '12 when incrementals were in the 90s.
Am I getting that right? You're hitting the 3 categories.
I mean you have restructure impairment our planned infrastructure which actually was -- we did back-end load that.
We were -- early in the year Bob we really were focused on operating profit and we held off a lot of projects.
So it's not that we spent anymore on infrastructure.
We just put a lot of it into the fourth quarter.
We took some of our plants.
We had a logistics plan for the last 4 months we talked about it last quarter and it allowed us to do some routine maintenance.
So we took the position.
We knew we're going in the fourth quarter and we said we want to take some maintenance because we do feel the next couple of years things are going to start getting better and we want to make sure that our plants are ready to ramp up where needed.
So yes those are the categories.
If you would put those big categories into the incremental for the quarter I think your 40-some percent would go up about 20 points and be in the mid-60s for the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
So the full year incremental of 78% that you realized in 2012 is kind of in the ballpark for 2013.
Well Bob I'm not going to give you a projection but I wouldn't dispute of what -- your math but it's your math.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
I was going to ask one question but boy that last one made me think of a different one.
So I'm going to go with that one.
So basically...
Mark that's great as long as it's one okay? It will be one.
Can you remind us what type of pricing initiatives you have in place? And if we're expecting a similar type of incremental margins on revenues can one deduce that the pricing improvement for this year will probably be fairly close to a type of pricing improvement you had last year? Can you tell me what product you're talking about? For gypsum.
Okay all right yes.
For wallboard as we've said we had a pricing strategy that we implemented last year that we were quite successful with the results.
Our customers were pleased with it.
It took a lot of uncertainty for our customers out of the market.
It allowed them to focus on growing their business and profitability for our customers.
We have announced a similar strategy for 2013.
We've sat down with each one of our independent customers over the last 45 days and we are having one price for the year with our customers.
So we're in a regional business we're in different segments.
We're also looking at -- Matt had talked about inflation so we'll be able to report on the first quarter how our pricing looks for the first quarter and right now we're pleased with the early results.
Great.
So the first quarter should show most of the improvement or would it potentially -- some of it show up first quarter and some could show up later? We'll be able to give you more color as we'll be a little smarter at the end of the first quarter and be able to give you that color.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow Research.
Just wondering if you could provide a little more color just on your CapEx.
You're bumping it up by about $40 million in 2013 on the core part of your business.
Is this mostly maintenance-driven anticipating higher volumes so you'll be performing more maintenance CapEx to your facilities.
You did talk about anticipating to bring on a line or 2 in some of your tighter markets potentially in 2013? Just how much of the CapEx is maintenance versus expansion driven? And then maybe if you could provide a little bit more of a long-term outlook how we should be thinking about the CapEx needs as volumes return? Garik this is Matt Hilzinger.
So the maintenance that we expect to spend in 2013 is very similar to what we spent in 2012.
So we don't expect a significant increase there and in fact if you look back over the last 4 or 5 years that's been an area where the company has just -- they put in the right amount of capital.
So we haven't starved the plants at all.
So when we think about maintenance capital it's really what we've been putting into the plants.
We don't expect to have any kind of spike up in maintenance.
Most of the increase -- so if you think about kind of normal CapEx we spent $70 million last year.
We're going to spend about $110 million in 2013.
That increase is primarily in fact substantially all growth.
I mean it's to drive revenues and we're very disciplined here about how we think about capital and putting capital to work.
But this is all around growing the business.
And these are things about adding some capacity into our Ceilings business it's growing some capacity around fiberglass we're investing a little bit in IT we think of IT now as a strategic weapon we're putting in sales force automation.
So there's a lot of things that we're doing to really try and drive the top end of the business and continue to do things that we need to do to lower our breakeven.
So that's where our capital is going.
As we think about Oman I had mentioned before in Oman that we're going to complete the $60 million spending.
And so we had a little bit of a shift from 2012 into 2013.
But that CapEx is on plan and anticipated to get those...
I think the core is up and running sometime at the end of this year and then the wallboard plan is the first part of 2014.
As we think about CapEx over the long term if you look back over the cycle in terms of depreciation that can give you kind of a view of where CapEx could be.
But I will tell you what we're really focused on now is making sure that the CapEx that we're spending is going to drive a return to the shareholder.
And it's going to support our sales growth.
So it's harder to give you kind of an outlook over the next 2 3 4 5 years but as we continue to see demand come back we'll spend money if it's going to drive return to the shareholder.
Just some summary just real quick.
The 2013 increase is more broad-based than just assuming it's targeting North American Gypsum? Yes.
Our next question comes from Neil Frohnapple from Northcoast Research.
Did you guys close any L&amp;W branches during the quarter? And how many more locations could you look to reduce in 2013? I'm just trying to get a sense of how you're trying to balance branch closures to drive near-term profitability higher versus maintaining L&amp;W's footprint given its leverage to the commercial construction market which typically like the housing recovery could be the real nice next layer of growth here? As we've been talking about realigning the strategy for L&amp;W and we really have a laser-focus on servicing the commercial contractor with our products.
We have 7 core product categories.
Wallboard just to remind everyone at L&amp;W is only about 1/3 of the sales for the total company.
Commercial steel installation the big focus -- commercial installation is the big focus commercial ceiling tile and grid exterior ease [ph].
We have 7 core product categories.
We aren't into lumber we're focused on where we can win.
When we look at the network we do not want to exit any market.
So for example we closed 13 locations this year and we closed a few in the fourth quarter not anything to speak of but 13 for the year.
We really look at how we can service those commercial contractors.
So the market did contract and some markets where we would have at one time maybe 15 locations we have 8.
But the key is servicing those commercial contractors.
Growth is very important at L&amp;W.
We've been talking a lot about getting to profitability but this is a velocity business and profitably growing our business with our value to that commercial contractor is very important.
So when we look at restructuring and the things we've been doing at L&amp;W the first thing we say is can we profitably service that market? And we're very keen on not exiting any strategic market.
So as you go into 2013 there may be some branch closures but that's not going to be the big focus.
It's really going to be being efficient on our deliveries our value proposition getting paid for what we do and most importantly we think with the return of the commercial opportunity we're going to get some wind at our back.
Our next question comes from Trey Grooms from Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Just one question on the continued cost reduction activities that you guys have put through in 2012 $38 million.
Can you -- I mean are we pretty much at a point where you've realized about everything you can on that front? I mean as we kind of look out into '13 with continued improvement into your end markets here and you kind of look at putting more money into the businesses again I guess or could we expect to see additional kind of cost reductions in '13? Trey that's a great question and the key is when -- as business starts returning which we think 2013 it is we have to be very cognizant of where we add as Matt said on CapEx.
These are projects that are great return projects.
These are businesses [indiscernible] example the Ceilings business that's earned their way to getting resources and we are extremely diligent of where we're spending money.
We're still in a soft market.
I mean we're talking about the gypsum opportunity in 2013 to be 20 billion feet.
And you look at -- we're still at some very historically low levels.
Even though we're optimistic about we're starting to get some wind at our back we are very focused on continuing to keep an eye on our breakeven and some previous questions on our leverage.
We want to make sure that we have as much leverage in the business for each incremental dollar.
So we are never done is a long answer to your question we're going to continue.
We think there's great opportunities to take Lean Six Sigma out of the plants and look at other areas how we can be more efficient on strategic sourcing.
We're doing things at L&amp;W through inventory stratification being more efficient there.
So our cost and focus will never be done here.
It's a core competency but what I like to say we can -- I'd like to lower the breakeven.
You can cut costs but also you want to lower the breakeven so you can grow the company.
So it's going to be a little bit of weeding and feeding and we are not going to take our eye off the ball.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> I guess I just needed a little bit more help with the leverage.
Thinking about year-over-year seeing the incrementals come down I guess I don't quite understand why seasonality should play into that.
If anything it would seem that seasonality would be a benefit because the sequential trend in revenue this quarter was better than normal and better than last year.
So I was hoping you can maybe help me with that? And then on the infrastructure spending that similarly is impacting that can you just give us an example of what that would be that would be expensed versus capitalized? Yes this is Matt Hilzinger.
So Dennis I think we gave the quarter-to-quarter view on operating leverage but I think the way that we really think about it and the way to think about it is on an annualized basis.
I mean 71% on an annualized operating leverage basis is just terrific and when you look at the improvement that's been made year-over-year as we think about 2013 and as Jim said it'd be great for us to be able to give -- I'd love to be able to give you a forecast for next year but I can't.
But I think you heard what Jim was saying in terms of kind of the numbers.
I think we would expect to see continued leverage into '13.
We may need to add a shift here or there.
But I think we have line of sight to net income and I think that will pose real positive to the operating leverage.
LLC</strong> I guess excluding that I guess what you're saying is there's some timing of items that impacted the fourth quarter year-over-year.
So seasonality is not really the driver and it sounded like the timing was on some of the maintenance or infrastructure spend as you called it? Yes there was a little bit.
As Jim said look we backloaded the second half with infrastructure spending and we've got some infrastructure spending to do obviously in 2013 and we'll probably pace that out a little bit more evenly than we did in 2012.
But I think it's difficult when you start breaking the operating leverage down by quarter by month even by week.
So I think you got to take a look at it in totality in terms of kind of the annualized operating leverage.
And as I said as you think about 2013 we have line of sight to real improvement on the profits here and we would expect to see good things continue on the operating leverage side.
LLC</strong> Just to clarify now and I'll hop off.
So the infrastructure spending can you just give us some examples of what that is that's being expensed versus the maintenance that you're talking about being capitalized? Yes infrastructure stuff would be it's going through and it's painting it's other such things.
I mean it's taking care of ceilings and holes in the ceilings and that kind of stuff.
Maintenance CapEx could be repairing floors and putting up new walls and some other things.
So there's some very strict rules between what you can capitalize and what you can expense.
But I will say this that the infrastructure spending going back to one of the previous questions between maintenance CapEx capital and infrastructure spending it's going to be roughly the same in '12 as it is for '13.
The pattern might be a little bit different but we don't see a big change and a big increase in infrastructure spending in '13.
Our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson from Thomson Research Group.
LLC.</strong> I wanted to focus a little bit on your L&amp;W division margin which were maybe a touch softer than we would have anticipated given the improvement in the top line.
My question is how much of this is driven by your greater non-res focus that you've been working on versus driven by pricing negotiations being moved to the distributor and away from wallboard manufacturers with the elimination of job quotes in the Wallboard segment? Kathryn this is Jim.
Really the big driver at L&amp;W has been velocity.
If you look at historic sales and just units they're still some very very low levels.
We have walked away from some unprofitable residential business which typically would put some velocity through the system but it wasn't a good margin business and we didn't have a value proposition.
As I said earlier we aren't in lumber we aren't really in residential roofing and we really wanted to refocus on where L&amp;W is.
L&amp;W's wallboard margins improved in the quarter and the L&amp;W pricing in the market has been very very solid and so it's really -- if you look at L&amp;W we're going to start seeing some improvement to the bottom line it's truly the return to commercial.
As I said next couple of quarters they're still going to be choppy but L&amp;W has lowered their breakeven.
We've taken the branches out as I've talked earlier.
But really it's been in other ways of how they go-to-market and having a value proposition.
And I think one indication is their wallboard margins improved in a very soft commercial market.
So if you look at their results I really just -- really points to that top line and the profitable top line.
We just don't want to go get volume to go get volume.
LLC.</strong> So the margins are larger than -- it sounds like it's more of a softer non-res? I guess I'm just trying to get a little bit more clarity on the little bit softer margin that we have expected for L&amp;W but it sounds like what you're saying is even though you had a 6.5% increase or 6.5% to 7% increase in the top line it's still a relatively soft market and just haven't -- and much of this is driven more by non-res than anything else? Right.
It's a throughput.
I mean It's really focused on the throughput and also it's consciously not chasing low-end residential business where that's been the growth in the market.
L&amp;W doesn't plan the repair and remodel the do-it-yourself and it's really positioning them where we can provide value.
And we're looking ahead.
As I said earlier 2013 non-res is going to be mid-single digits so there's a lag but we're in steel studs in L&amp;W and it's not as much of a lag as it is with the Ceilings business and in 2014 the McGraw-Hill projections are a little more optimistic.
So we think we're very well-positioned from a cost standpoint.
I think we're very well positioned from a value proposition of how we get paid for what we do.
And quite frankly we want to get a bigger share of wallet from our commercial contractors and provide value to them.
It's still a very difficult market to service so we don't have as many competitors because putting product in a high-rise takes some skills and we do know how to do it.
So that's another area that's very important and the question that we get is why would L&amp;W just focus on commercial? If you look at the amount of competitors that we have in distribution it's exponentially lower than the amount of competitors that can service a homebuilder.
So strategically we think it will make sense but we just need some velocity Kathryn.
Our next question comes from Seth Yeager from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With the sizable joint venture investments that you guys have been going into at this point can you provide some -- maybe some updated timing metrics or hurdle rate so we can think about these opportunities going forward and how that will float through your P&amp;L? And then just going forward how do you weigh allocating dollars towards additional emerging market opportunities against say in taking advantage of lower rates reducing or refinancing parts of your balance sheet versus additional investments on new products? That's a great question.
Let me take the first part and I'd like Matt to then talk about our strategy on ROIC and how we're going to be allocating capital into all of our businesses including the emerging markets.
As Matt went through the numbers we've made an investment in Oman which basically is going to be servicing the Indian market.
I had a chance to be in India last month and I will say that the USG brand is very recognized.
The customers are very anxious about us being there.
We have boots on the street now.
We've started to set up a distribution channel.
But it's going to take some time and this is -- the market is growing but we are new in the market.
We're seeding the market as we speak from other wallboard locations that we have in our network.
But long-term we need to have landed assets in that market.
So I just want to caution everyone that this is going to be a -- this is a strategic move for us but it will take some time.
And saying that we're going to continue to keep our eyes open on other options that people would look at our brands and our technology.
And there when you're in a worldwide market our brand is very recognized.
So on one side of it this is going to be a very good part of diversifying out of our cyclical North American business.
But this is a -- it's going to be a glide up versus a hockey stick and that's why we have to keep our other options open.
How we allocate capital is very important.
You have to look at the risks we look at the country risks.
We look at what product we're going to be manufacturing.
Is it going to be wallboard or DUROCK or ceiling tile? And the good news is what we found in India.
Our customers want the full product line.
They're very interested in our ceiling tile very interested in our FIBEROCK product as well as the plasterboard products as they referred to it in that market.
Now how we allocate capital I'm going to turn that over to Matt because that's a very important question because the good news is we have a lot of opportunities throughout the company here to grow the business.
The other news is we just have to be diligent of where we allocate that capital and making sure it has the best returns for our shareholders.
I was just going to say this: last year we did a very comprehensive top-down review of all of businesses.
And as Jim said we looked at the risk and we looked at the expected returns.
And we've done a lot of analytics to come up with return on invested capital targets by each business.
And obviously they're going to be different whether we're in the gypsum business here in the U.S.
or we're doing something overseas and we've got the Ceilings business.
So we don't give out individual hurdle rates but I will tell you we've been very comprehensive and analytical in how we come up with what we see those returns expected returns and what they ought to be.
And we do use this model our return on invested capital model to take a look at how we allocate capital between the businesses now.
And we find and see the international businesses [indiscernible] is a very attractive opportunity for us.
And we clearly wouldn't be investing in it if we didn't believe that we can get to the right return on invested capital.
So it's a big big process in terms of kind of our capital planning as well as our strategic planning of how we think about where capital needs to go how we deploy it and having different hurdle rates within our businesses in terms of what they're expected to meet and make over the years.
So I'm really pleased with where we are on that and I think we're going to see the fruits of that analytics bear over the next few years.
The next question comes from Jack Kasprzak from BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> The restructuring and long-lived asset impairment charge of $13 million can you tell us what segment or segments that's attributed to? And I assume there's no associated tax effect from that? There is -- those are -- the numbers we gave you are effectively after-tax.
So majority -- if you look at the 3 areas or the impairment about $12 million of that is in North American Gypsum.
And I'd say about 2/3 about $8 million of that has to do with asset impairments related to a couple of facilities that we have up in Canada closed facilities and the other 4 or 5 is restructuring due to the management reduction that we had that Jim had talked about earlier.
Our final question comes from Todd Vencil from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned the possibility even though you're not planning it of adding a shift or 2 later in the year.
And just around that issue are you seeing any competitors doing that? And when you do it how should we think about that impacting your margins? And any sort of competitive approach that you might take? Well when we look at our opportunities I said we're kind of on -- we're cautious on planning purposes and optimistic that we have some wind at our back.
And we have to be very diligent and I said we may be adding a shift or 2.
And here's the issue that we have it takes time most of our plants are in outlying areas.
So to bring people in we have a very rigorous preemployment screening which also takes time.
And the last thing we want to do is hire a shift and then 3 months later lay it off.
That's unfair to our employees and really doesn't help our shareholders.
We have to be very confident that any type of regional recovery is sustainable.
It isn't just about seasonality.
We talked a lot about seasonality earlier.
It isn't about a customer did a block buy and it was -- so we have to be very very cognizant.
We can -- we have about 51% [ph] volume increase that we can do without even adding shifts if you look at systemwide.
Now there'll be some regional areas.
We have the opportunity to ship product in from out of area if we think it's just going to be a monthly phenomena.
So I just wanted to alert anyone that may happen but I just want to stress with everyone it has to be a very diligent well thought out forecast that we know that that opportunity is going to be there long-term.
There's a lot of leverage in this business and when you add a shift you're adding cost and when you add a shift it has to have the appropriate return on investment just like it would if we're putting capital in.
So that is how we plan our business.
We work very closely with our customers and get their projections [indiscernible].
One of the beauties of having a part of our company like L&amp;W Supply they have a customer base of 30 000 customers out there so we get projections from them.
We put that all into our black box and say are we going to do this or not? But we have to [ph] sure it's going to be right long-term.
Research Division</strong> I totally understand and that definitely seems like an appropriate level of consideration to give it.
I mean when and if you decide to do that and presumably you'll have to at some point if volumes keep growing how should we think about how that's going to impact margins and maybe even the way you approach competition in a region or will it? Well if volumes are strong and we need to add a shift is -- in all the points I said earlier it should positively contribute to volumes and be great to the bottom line.
I'd like to say it will add to the pile of money.
So we're not going to do this for the practice.
Research Division</strong> I like that.
And have you seen anybody else -- any of your competitors adding shifts yet? I cannot comment on what they do.
Probably the best thing is to ask them.
I appreciate everyone's questions.
I know there were some people that we didn't get to but it's good to see that we have a lot of interest in our company.
And I just -- would just like to close.
I thank everyone for your questions and your interest.
And when we look back at 2012 and this will be the last time we'll be talking about it on a call I think we can say we've seen the beginning of the recovery.
After 5 years or I'd like to say after half a decade demand is starting to return to our business and our markets are healing.
The near-term macroeconomic factors that drive our business if you look at the credit availability and GDP growth and overall demographics even though it's slow it is improving.
We're starting to see improvement in household formation and some of the underliers that we've all talked about really are -- I'd like to say we have a breeze at our back maybe not a wind at our back.
I look forward to the opportunities that we have in 2013.
I'm very excited about 2013.
We continue -- we'll continue to take care of our wonderful customers and I like to say working alongside I believe the best team in the industry that we have at USG.
We've taken some strong steps forward but clearly there's more work to be done.
We'll continue to execute our Plan to Win as we build on this recovery and we will continue to see the results from our efforts and you will continue to see those results over the next quarters and years as we move to our main focus now is our path to positive net earnings.
And that's really front and center focus for us.
So as always I appreciate your time and I appreciate your interest in USG and we look forward to updating you next quarter on the first quarter results.
Thank you.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Friday February 15th.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the USG Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Ken Banas.
Mr.
Banas you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's first quarter 2013 earnings conference call and live webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link of the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumptions of our business market and other condition and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
With me today to discuss our results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the quarter for the corporation and the business segment.
We will then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
We would like to ensure that everyone has an opportunity to ask questions so I ask that when we get to the Q&amp;A session callers are asked to limit themselves to one question.
Jim? Thank you Ken and good morning.
I appreciate you joining us this morning and I look forward to giving you an update on the quarter as well as how we're seeing the overall market.
I'm very pleased to report we had our first quarter of net income in over 5 years.
Despite soft volume we were able to implement a Plan to Win.
We're focused on the controllables to generate earnings as we emerge from the half decade depression that has gripped our overall industry.
Volume in Wallboard was down slightly compared to last year but we don't believe this indicates the recovery is off track.
Our wallboard pricing policies have been successful and our customers were more inclined to prebuy in advance of our annual price increase in the fourth quarter than they were a year prior.
We also had a fairly severe winter across most of the country very different from the more temperate temperatures we had a year ago.
In fact the entire industry shipped 2% less product in the quarter versus last year for the same reasons.
We continue to lower our breakeven.
Our first quarter SG&amp;A was down from a year ago.
This will allow us to continue to maximize our profitability as we move through the recovery and begin to make some targeted investments in our business.
Now I'd like to turn to our business units.
First in the North American Gypsum segment.
Wallboard results continue to be the driver of improved performance.
Wallboard price was up over $22 from the first quarter last year and we're pleased with these results.
Our customers had an opportunity to improve their margins as well and also lower their administrative costs using our wallboard pricing model.
Worldwide Ceilings experienced the seasonal recovery that we discussed on the last call delivering $27 million in operating profit in the quarter on basically flat sales.
This was the highest quarter ever of operating profit in the Ceilings business despite lower volume in both tile and grid.
The commercial market still remains choppy and we still don't anticipate the demand landscape changing in the near future.
Turning to our distribution business L&amp;W Supply.
L&amp;W continued to improve their operating results in this slow commercial market reducing losses by 2/3 from a year ago.
L&amp;W's wallboard spread percentage increased by double-digit from last year despite volume being down consistent with the market.
L&amp;W's strategic focus remains on the commercial contractor but also taking advantage of the growth we're seeing in multifamily residential.
Our contractor customers are seeing stronger backlogs in bidding calendars and they're even beginning to think about the availability of skilled labor as they're quoting jobs that are going to be let next year and early -- later this year.
We're confident in L&amp;W's value proposition and we believe that the velocity is starting to return to the business as the year unfolds.
Our Plan to Win is working and it's evident in our results.
The 3 legs of our strategy are driving the improved performance.
Our commitments to strengthening our core business can be seen in the wallboard price improvement the improved results in both L&amp;W and Worldwide Ceilings.
Our cost management initiatives are working and we continue to focus on lowering our breakeven.
In the first quarter we launched a company-wide Lean Six Sigma program taking an initiative that's been very successful across our manufacturing footprint over the last few years and we expanded it to our corporate functions.
Although we've already reduced our cost over $0.5 billion we continue to look for ways to drive even more efficiency across the entire network.
The second pillar of our strategy is to diversify our earnings.
Our joint ventures to serve the growth markets are establishing their operations as we speak.
I had the opportunity to participate in the groundbreaking in our Oman quarry.
I was very impressed with the progress they've made.
This is a very valuable asset that's going to be able to serve a variety of strategic interests in both the Middle East and India.
Our final strategic priority is growing our business through innovation.
The most visible example of this continues to be the success of our SHEETROCK brand UltraLight portfolio.
Another new product UltraLight Mold Tough panels were released last quarter and the response has been impressive.
In addition our SHEETROCK brand UltraLight Joint Treatment was a top 10 finisher in the Home Depot innovation awards in 2012 the same awards our UltraLight panel won the year prior.
Our strategy is comprehensive strengthen diversify differentiate to grow USG.
So now I'd like to turn the call over to Matt and he's going to give you greater details on the financials.
Matt? Thanks Jim and good morning to all of you.
As Jim mentioned I'll recap our first quarter results and provide some additional details on each of our business segments.
Before I begin I want to remind everybody that at the end of the fourth quarter we finalized the sale of our European operations which had been reported previously and entirely within USG International in our Worldwide Ceilings segment.
Prior period amounts have been adjusted to reflect our former European operations as discontinued operations.
Moving on to total corporation results from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2013 net sales were $814 million up 4% from the first quarter of last year.
Our first quarter operating profit was $49 million which compares to an operating profit of $24 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The year-on-year improvement was driven primarily by higher wallboard prices offset somewhat by higher wallboard costs and lower volume.
As Jim mentioned we had our first quarter of net income and positive earnings per share in over 5 years.
For the quarter our diluted EPS was $0.02 per share.
We have included 2.7 million of potential common shares in fully diluted EPS.
The 35 million shares related to our 2018 convertible debt would not become dilutive and included in our calculation until we have more net income.
In past cycles USG has achieved 35% to 55% incremental operating profit margin in the 4 years through after a trough.
For all of 2012 we had an incremental operating profit margin of 71%.
In the first quarter of 2013 we had a $25 million improvement in operating profit on the $31 million increase in sales resulting in an incremental operating profit margin of 81%.
As we continue to take steps toward our breakeven we anticipate our operating margin will fluctuate and will be impacted by anticipated costs to serve [indiscernible].
Focusing on SG&amp;A expenses in the first quarter of 2013 SG&amp;A was $72 million versus $76 million last year.
A significant portion of this improvement was the timing of expenses expected to be incurred later in the year.
As I said in February we will continue to work to offset the impacts of inflation and still expect SG&amp;A to be up slightly in 2013 versus 2012.
I'll now provide a little more detail on our first quarter segment results.
Net sales for our North American Gypsum segment were $509 million for the quarter and operating profit was $46 million versus an operating profit last year of $32 million despite lower wallboard volume.
Primary contribution was due to our wallboard price increase contributing $25 million.
This decrease in wallboard volumes lowered operating profit by $3 million compared to the year prior.
Labor energy and materials were the principal drivers of our higher costs.
Our U.S.
Wallboard business shipped approximately 1.1 billion square feet in the quarter a decrease of 4% compared to the first quarter of last year and down 9% from the fourth quarter.
We believe the decrease in volumes from the fourth quarter is due to the 2 factors Jim had previously mentioned a higher level of prebuy in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus '11 and the harsher winter this year compared to the unseasonably warm weather of early 2012.
We had an average realized price of $153.07 for the first quarter of 2013 compared to $130.43 in the first quarter a year ago.
As we said in the past this price may fluctuate throughout the year due to changes in freight and regional demand fluctuations including exports.
We are really pleased with this price.
We believe that we have been able to secure this increase because of our high-quality products strong customer service and our commitment to help our customers improve their product offerings and profitability coming out of a half-decade depression in our industry.
We are also very pleased that this increase helps USG's path to an appropriate return on invested capital.
Turning to Worldwide Ceilings.
Our Ceilings business saw the typical seasonal rebound from the fourth quarter delivering first quarter operating profit of $27 million in 2013.
This was the highest level of operating profit in the history of our Ceilings business despite demand had dropped in both grid and tile.
Our February price increase and the shift in mix to higher-end product helped to offset this lower demand.
Longer-term demand appears to be improving slightly however commercial demand remains choppy and we expect to see continued choppiness in the near future.
In our Building Products Distribution segment net sales increased 4% year-on-year for the first quarter with same-store sales up nearly 9%.
The operating loss in this year's first quarter decreased to $2 million from $6 million a year ago as L&amp;W improved their wallboard spread despite lower volumes.
As a point of reference in the first quarter of 2008 L&amp;W posted a $2 million loss on $490 million in sales compared to a $2 million loss this quarter on $281 million in sales.
This is evidence that our strategy of our branch rationalization lowering our breakeven and focusing on the right jobs with the right customers is working.
We achieved the same results with sales that are down over 40% and wallboard volume that's down 60%.
We believe L&amp;W is very well-positioned as the commercial market emerges from its half decade depression.
Turning to our cash position.
USG has historically used more cash in the first quarter of the year due to low levels of seasonal demand and year end accruals and this year was no exception and was in line with our expectations.
The use of $150 million in cash during the first quarter was for the purchase of our remaining mining rights in Oman higher accruals at year end including incentives and some growth in working capital as our business grows.
As of March 31 of this year we had total liquidity of $767 million and we believe our liquidity is well positioned to end strong for this point in the cycle.
Lastly turning to tax benefits.
USG has over $2.1 billion in federal net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset future taxable income.
The utilization of these NOLs equates to roughly $800 million in reduced cash federal taxes which we intend to use to invest in strategic initiatives and delever the balance sheet over time.
Section 382 of the U.S.
tax code imposes limitations as to how this asset can be utilized if more than 50% of the shares outstanding owned by 5% shareholders change hands over a rolling 3-year period.
Our shareholders who have the opportunity to vote on an amendment to our restated Certificate of Incorporation and an amendment to our Rights Agreement to restrict certain transfers of our common stock in an effort to protect the value of our NOLs.
These amendments would generally expire in the shore of 3 years or when the NOLs have been utilized.
Let me conclude by saying that while we are pleased to have delivered our first quarter of net income in over 5 years we know this is another very important milestone towards earning the appropriate return on investment capital from each of our businesses.
With that I would like to turn it back to Jim.
Thanks.
Thank you Matt.
I'd like to take a few moments to share our thoughts on the overall market for the first part of 2013 and how we're seeing the market unfold this year.
I've already touched on wallboard shipments for the first quarter.
Housing starts as everyone has seen in March topped 1 million for the first time since June of 2008 and it was great to see the continued strength in this end market.
Multifamily starts really drove the big part of that increase up 27% while single-family starts were down slightly and permits were basically flat.
The Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies last week projected a mid-single-digit increase in the repair and remodel market this year.
The first quarter was basically flat in R&amp;R compared to the fourth quarter but the projections are for a sizable increase in the second and third quarter before the pace of growth moderates towards the end of the year.
Our partnership with large big-box retailers and L&amp;W's footprint positions us well to benefit from the continued recovery in repair and remodel.
Turning to commercial McGraw-Hill Commercial Construction forecasts a mid single-digit increase for 2013.
This includes about a 14% increase in commercial and industrial segments and those segments include office retail and hotel and a 2% decrease in institutional which includes educational healthcare and government.
This comes on the heels of the low single-digit total increase in 2012 with very similar subsegment characteristics.
We are seeing the beginnings of an improved commercial opportunity.
However as Matt just mentioned we do anticipate the overall opportunity to be choppy as the year unfolds.
So with that I'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on U.S.
Gypsum company margins.
There was a little bit of a surprise last quarter in terms of I guess some catch-up of your accrued cost throughout the year.
How do you see that playing out this year in terms of it potentially being a more normal distribution? And if so would you expect some further margin improvement in 2Q given perhaps greater volume and continued realization of price? Thank you Michael.
I think you're on the right track.
Really the biggest impact on the margin in the first quarter was volume.
We had a little bit of a raw material natural gas increase but if you look at the biggest impact it was on the margin side.
As we said margins were down about 2% -- excuse me 4% year-on-year.
Quite frankly we're starting to see this thing work out.
We started to see some trends up as the quarter unfolded on margins.
So we think -- we're not giving you a projection but we're very focused on our strategic sourcing group which is focused on all of our raw materials.
We're hedged on gas as you know.
It was a cold winter so the spot market came up during the quarter.
But we're very focused on keeping the breakeven low and improving our margins in wallboard.
Research Division</strong> Did I hear you correctly did you say that margins were down year-over-year and...
No.
No I said that the margins no were up year-on-year.
I said that volume was down year-on-year.
Research Division</strong> Volume.
Okay that's what I -- that's what we saw.
And then in terms of the volume just to get more granular there...
Michael Michael excuse me we have quite a few people in queue.
If we could just hold that and we'll come back to you on that.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up and try to understand a little bit better the prebuying activity that may have occurred in the quarter.
Just to get a sense for how we might frame things out quarterly over the next couple of quarters -- several quarters.
Can you give us a little bit more color around the nature of prebuying activity how it trended through the quarter and to what degree you think it's going to affect near-term result? Yes Stephen.
As I said in my prepared comments our customers really they were serious about prebuy much more this year than they were last year which indicated to us that the price increase was real to our customers.
We really managed the prebuying activity from our standpoint and that really had an impact on our volumes.
But I will say some of our customers did prebuy overall.
We saw some of the warehouses very full and there was as much -- just talking to our customers maybe as much as 20% increased volume that was pre-bought from the customers we talked to.
The good news is we've started to see that work its way through volumes.
January and February were quite soft and we started to see some trends up in March.
And as we look into the second quarter things are starting to work through.
So I guess the question is has the material flushed through? We think it has.
And it really -- we know some customers that actually rented outside warehouses in December to prebuy material but that is flushed through the system.
Also Stephen we liked your analogy on housing and your first car so I thought that was a good article.
Our next question comes from Trey Grooms from Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Still kind of on the prebuy but more as it directs to -- as it relates to L&amp;W obviously very nice improvement there on the margins.
Did this business given that it's distribution did it benefit any from kind of the prebuying ahead of the January price increase in wallboard? Do you think that this kind of margin improvement that we've seen here that it's sustainable and that we could see it progress through the year? Well we have a big focus corporately on working capital and really controlling our inventory.
And L&amp;W and all of our other independence we put -- we did some maintenance over in December and we did not have a huge surge and you saw our volumes in the fourth quarter.
We didn't have a huge surge on prebuy particularly our other customers our big-box retailers just don't have the space to take it.
So no they did not take a huge advantage of prebuy as some of their competitors did.
So L&amp;W's results really are really focused on gross margin improvement.
As we said on the commercial contractor I think the comparison that Matt used versus 2008 about branch rationalization but also lowering the breakeven.
So we aren't there yet with L&amp;W but we've knocked those losses by 2/3 and we're optimistic we're going to start seeing some good results soon.
Our next question comes from Daniel Oppenheim from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I think you talked about some of the -- what you're seeing in terms of the -- the residential side in terms that prebuying activity and such and then how the trends have evolved.
Also actually on the commercial side a bit choppy.
Can you elaborate a bit in terms of what you're seeing here in the second quarter? You're seeing some improvement coming through in those end markets here how do you describe that? You're talking about the commercial end markets? Research Division</strong> Right right.
Yes.
It's still a very -- we use the term choppy but if you look at the architectural billings that have just come out they've -- we've had 8 consecutive months of improvement.
But March went backwards from February.
So I think March was like 52 which is positive but February was 55.
So it's very uneven.
As we said some segments are up double digits other segments are down.
So we're still trying to work through some very low numbers that were in the system 18 to 24 months ago and with our products particularly ceiling there's an 18-month lag on commercial.
So we're still seeing commercial to be the last segment of the 3 that's showing any type of improvement.
But as you look forward and as McGraw-Hill looks forward into 2014 the projections for 2014 on overall commercial start getting into double digits.
So that is the one segment that is really lagging.
Our next question comes from Bob Wetenhall from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was just hoping Jim would feel really bold today and I wanted to see if you think this is the year when L&amp;W surpasses breakeven and turns profitable? You've obviously made a lot of progress in terms of rationalizing store count your losses have shrunk dramatically year-over-year.
Do you see this division being in the black this year? Thanks Bob I appreciate the comments and we see some commercial velocity that will really get us there much faster and I think as we continue to see the commercial market as I said earlier fairly choppy.
And we're going to continue to lower the breakeven and get margin improvement.
But our focus is to get L&amp;W profitable ASAP.
And if we can build some office buildings that will surely help.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie.
I had a question in terms of your wallboard U.S.
market share.
I noticed that it had been obviously trending down since the peak of the housing market but in the first half of last year you had a bit of a spike up in market share back up to about 26%.
And it looks like you maintained that level in the first quarter.
How should we think about your market share going forward? That's a great question and as we're -- we're looking at -- we always have been balancing price and volume in the market share.
The key we've been focused on our market share did go backwards the last few years as we focused on profitable segments and really looking at geographic markets where the margins weren't where we wanted to be.
So we are not on a market share grab.
We gained a little share last year because quite frankly because of innovation.
We had in the first quarter of last year we had a big conversion of stores in the retail big-box arena converting from competitive product to UltraLight because UltraLight was outselling in the current stores.
So our position on market share is we're going to do it with innovation not with our -- we're going to do it with our value and we're going to balance margin price and volume and whatever market share comes out we'll be pleased with that.
And also in terms of L&amp;W supply you mentioned similar results...
Mike Mike excuse me we're trying to -- we have a lot of people...
Okay just one question no problem.
Yes.
They're very excited about us making net income and I'd really like to give everyone a chance.
Our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson from TRG.
This is Chris [ph] calling in for Kathryn.
I want to do ask one more question about L&amp;W operating margins.
Are you seeing any margin pressure by shifting the pricing negotiation away from the manufacturing level down to the distributor level? Thank you.
What we've done in L&amp;W on pricing is similar to what we did in our manufacturing side as we've centralized our pricing policy making it's down to 1 or 2 individuals corporately.
We've taken pricing authority out of the field.
We put in some very specific metrics that we've utilized with looking at profitable customers focus on the commercial contractor the entire package.
So we operate in a very fragmented market in distribution and we feel that having pricing centrally gives us the opportunity to maximize our margins.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Within L&amp;W outside of wallboard are you generally seeing product -- are your suppliers announcing price increases on products? And if so what kind of magnitude are those right now? Thank you.
It's interesting we talk a lot about wallboard at L&amp;W but more than half of their revenue is non-wallboard products ceiling tile and grid commercial steel commercial installation exterior heat systems.
And we are seeing price increases in practically every category.
Ceiling tile and grid in the first quarter was around 5%.
You look at steel stud manufacturing there was a price increase that was put into effect at the end of the year.
So we are seeing inflation in our non-wallboard products and what is really important about that is getting margin improvement when we get cost inflation.
What we've also done I've said in the previous call with centralizing our pricing authority at L&amp;W.
What we've also done is we've centralized our strategic sourcing group and utilized the leverage of being part of USG Corporation.
So when a steel manufacturer or insulation manufacturer has negotiations we have those in a very central location here.
There are category managers that know the industry that look at the future indexes and we've tried to really professionalize the way we acquire and lock in some of our commodity cost because it is a big part of the margin improvement.
Our focus is really to grow the categories in commercial insulation and steel.
We feel that we provide value at L&amp;W in commercial and you think about why -- participating in the residential that's opportunistic for us.
But at L&amp;W the commercial package steel studs commercial insulation ceiling tile and grid eaves and wallboard really provide value to the commercial contractor.
We also like it because the amount of competitors in the commercial segment are fewer than in the residential segment.
You really know -- have to know what you're doing when you're stocking a high-rise building with these products.
We operate in a very unsafe environment both the roads and construction sites.
So we feel -- we've been doing that for 45 years and it's something that we feel that we have value for our customers.
So that's when you talk about commercial construction focus for that we have the package we know how to do it and we think the competitive landscape that there's fewer competitors for us in that environment.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow Research.
With effective utilizations rates in wallboard high I was just wondering if you could talk about your plans to add back capacity whether it's later this year or next year and do you see the need for some capacity to come back whether it's from yourself or other industry players as a potential risk to the price improvement you got? We look at our network every day Garik.
And what we're looking at now is in our plan that we have for this year and we may be on the lower end of where a lot of projections are for opportunity.
But we feel right now adding shifts is not necessary.
If the business improves the rest of the year there may be some very regional shift additions that are planned.
This isn't bringing idle capacity back on.
This is instead of running plants our people over time we would be adding a shift and it would be very regional.
We are not anticipating bringing back any idle capacity.
We don't -- you have to remember the market still at historical low levels.
The Industry is going to ship around 20 billion feet.
We are still exponentially below multi-decade demand levels.
So our intent is from a regional basis we're busier in certain regions where we may add a shift but that would be if volume does surprise us in the back half of the year.
And I will say adding a shift at USG has no impact on our value proposition on pricing.
So we're very optimistic.
Price for -- a wallboard price for 2013 it's in our customers' programs.
They have it in their line items.
What's great about that it's lowering their administrative cost.
So if a shift is added to the back half of the year it has no impact on our price.
This is Matt.
Just to add a little bit of numbers to what Jim just said.
Our effective utilization capacity right now is around 83%.
So I know we've been talking about around 80s we'll double a little bit but that represents about 17% more demand before we really need across the network need to add anything.
So I hope that's helpful.
Our next question comes from Peter Lisnic from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Josh Chan filling in for Pete.
We understand that there were a number of price increases in the Gypsum business other than wallboard that went to effect during the quarter.
Would you mind commenting on kind of what traction you're getting on some of those price increases? Yes.
We had price increases in the rest of our businesses our surfaces business substrates DUROCK FIBEROCK just that you can put in your model it was -- each one of those were around 5%.
Research Division</strong> And you're getting good traction on those still? Yes we are.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman.
LLC</strong> I just had 5 questions I was hoping to get through.
The first one is just the sustainability of Ceilings margins you mentioned kind of some timing differences in the first quarter how should we think about that over the course of the year? And now with the international business divestiture kind of what would you think would be either sustainable margins or kind of your guys just go along on the short run? Sure.
And your other 4 you're going to hold off on right? LLC</strong> Yes I'm going to hold off.
LLC</strong> Okay thanks Dennis.
The Ceilings business I think through this entire recovery we've been -- each quarter the Street's been surprised.
The results have been very -- we've gotten through this recession with some very profitable numbers.
We have focused on margin improvement versus market share.
We have really focused on -- really the key on ceilings is purchasing steel and staying ahead of any type of steel increases with our grid price increases in the market.
And we work with some -- we have a really really wonderful distribution channel that represents our ceiling tile business well.
The divestiture of Europe when you look at Worldwide Ceilings they -- Europe averaged between $8 million and $10 million in operating profit over the last few years.
And in the first quarter this year as we said we had the best quarter ever.
And if you look at the -- I would look at the USG Interiors' results and the North American results unpacked.
And we think that the Ceilings business going forward particularly with any type of wind at our back on commercial over the next year will help.
We're very focused on with the repair and remodel segment of commercial that's showing some positive signs.
We have a nice footprint in the big-box retailer which is a good business for us.
So we feel that the Ceilings business is -- will continue to be a profitable business.
We're also -- when you look at our CapEx we're investing back into our Cloquet manufacturing facility in Minnesota which is manufacturers -- our high-end products.
We're very busy on the high-end.
As Matt has said we're shifting to -- our mix has changed higher end higher profit products and it's really what the architects are wanting.
We're seeing a lot of the architectural firms are specifying higher end ceiling performance and we're investing in that business to focus on our margin improvement as well.
So we're pleased with the results.
I would say any type of velocity just like we say on ceiling or on L&amp;W is going to help the Ceilings business.
And volume was down in the quarter sales were relatively flat and the operating profit was very strong.
So Dennis I'm still very optimistic about our ceilings performance and I don't see a big fall off as the year unfolds.
Our next question comes from Seth Yeager from Jefferies.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Talking a lot about prices during the quarter which is a good thing just maybe looking at cost of the headwind you guys had in Wallboard division how much of that was just the lower volumes versus nat gas and other? And how hedged -- can you give us an update on your hedge on nat gas with them being up this year? Yes I'll have Matt give you the specifics on the hedge.
I would say majority of the cost wins we had in the first quarter were related to volume.
And Seth on nat gas for 2013 we're 90% hedged.
And I think in February in the fourth quarter call I talked something about probably around a 4% increase slightly above what we paid in 2012.
And our policy really as we think about 2014 is we want to be 50% hedged going into the year.
And so we continue to kind of look at where gas prices are.
We'll manage that effectively through the balance of the year but that's effectively where want to be in 2014.
Our next question comes from Daniel Downes from B.C.
Holdings.
Can you just give a little more information about the change in the articles of incorporation that investors are going to be voting on in the next couple of weeks.
Why now? Was there any interest from a significant shareholder that could have tripped the test in the change in control? Or if you can just kind of explain the dynamics behind that a bit more.
Absolutely.
This is Matt Hilzinger appreciate the question.
So our objective is to protect 100% of the NOL.
And as I said in my earlier comments it's about 2.1 million.
When you take federal and state the cash value of that is somewhere around $1 billion.
So it was a fair amount of money.
And as we really start making that income and we're not a federal taxpayer we want to make sure that we had the right provisions in place to protect that asset for all shareholders.
And so from a timing standpoint I think as we started to look at our opportunity to make that income that's really what drove it.
It wasn't any particular interest on the shareholder or anything else we just -- it's time to really put it in place.
And so as you know there's 2 amendments.
One is a vote on the right to protection plan and the other is a change in the Article of Incorporation.
It's very common that those are both done together.
So I think what we're proposing is when I think a lot of other folks have proposed and again the intent here is really all around protection of that asset.
So we -- and I got to be careful what else I say here because I think you've got to be -- the regulations around soliciting here is -- they're pretty stringent.
So that's effectively why we did it.
Our next question comes from [indiscernible] from JPMorgan.
My question is related to working capital.
As we look forward when would we expect working capital to reverse? And then -- and perhaps if you can comment on why payables are down in the quarter.
This is Matt Hilzinger again.
So as Jim said earlier we watch working capital very very carefully.
And we've improved our working capital metrics when you think about days payable days inventory we improved them dramatically in '11.
We improved them again in '12.
And we've actually improved them in '13.
So not quite to the same extent in the first quarter that we saw in the first year for -- in 2012 but that is a real focus of ours.
And look we're going to continue to do things that we need to do to improve those metrics but as we continue to grow the business you would expect that working capital would grow as well.
And that's not a bad thing.
But clearly we're going to watch it very closely.
With payables the reason that payables is down year-over-year is that year end we actually had a fair amount of accrued expenses that were expensed in 2012 but just the timing of it moved them into 2013.
And that included a number of accrued expenses including incentive compensation.
So it's typical that we see that in -- from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
I think last year was probably a little bit higher than what we've seen in the past.
But that was clearly within our expectations and not a surprise to us.
Okay.
But it has nothing to do with any sort of changes in payment terms? No no no.
There's nothing to do with any kind of changes in payment terms just merely the cycle and the timing.
Our next question comes from Philip Volpicelli from Deutsche Bank.
With regard to the 10% convertible notes I believe you are able to force conversion of those into equity in December of this year.
Is that your intention and is that what would result in the 35 million share count dilution what will be the dilution associated with that? Yes.
We have not made a formal decision on that.
When we -- so when we look at our current balance sheet one of the things that we really want to do is we want to simplify the debt structure and delever the company.
We want to get to investment-grade metrics and we want to do that organically.
The one thing out there are the convertibles that would allow us to delever and we obviously have an option to call that in December of 2013.
We have not made a formal decision on that.
But I would tell you this is just in the spirit of where we want to go in terms of delevering the balance sheet.
But we need to spend some time with the folks that own those converts and make sure that we understand what their point of view is in this as well.
But it's costing us $40 million in interest per annum so it's very expensive capital.
So that is something that we're going to clearly look at as we move through the balance of this year.
And I think it's not unrelated to partly what we want to do around the 2 amendments that I just talked about earlier right? I mean we want to make sure that we factor in the impact of that convert and our ability to protect 100% of NOLs.
And I'm sorry what would be dilution to the share count if you...
It would be 35 -- the additional 35 million shares.
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from Dennis McGill from Zelman.
LLC</strong> Matt just a follow-up on that last point the 35 million shares.
When you started the call you said that net income would have to be higher.
Do those become dilutive even if they don't convert at some point? Even if they don't convert they do become dilutive at some point but you got to add net income in a very high amount once they convert.
LLC</strong> Is there are threshold that we can look at to determine that? You can calculate it.
It's probably somewhere around 120 million boxes [ph] where that income would need to be in order to have those be dilutive on an annual basis.
So part of this Dennis is the calculation you -- without getting into a bunch of details here you may end up having the 35 million come in a quarter or 2 but on an annual basis we wouldn't anticipate those 35 million shares being dilutive this year absent a conversion.
And then it would be dilutive absent a conversion if we hit net income somewhere I would say north of $120 million.
We have no further questions at this time.
I appreciate all the questions and the interest in USG.
As we said in the first quarter we achieved our net income for the first time in 5 years and this is very exciting news for the Corporation and I will say for the morale of our team here.
But I want to say this is an important milestone but we realize we do have work to do to maximize the value of USG for our shareholders and by no means are we satisfied with these -- our level of earnings.
We believe demand will continue to improve throughout the year.
And as I said earlier that we're starting to see some improvement as we speak.
Despite a recovery in residential repair and remodel over the past 1.5 years we're still below historical levels and we have a long way to go.
As we talked about in both Q&amp;A and our prepared comments the commercial recovery is in very early stages and we believe it's very uneven as the year unfolds.
We are well situated to take advantage of the improvement in all of our core businesses and I have to say as the CEO I'm very optimistic about our road ahead.
As we close today I'd like to congratulate the entire USG team from the board line to the board room on getting us to this important milestone.
It's a milestone we've been focused on.
We've been talking to you about it over the last 1.5 years.
We still have work to do.
We're very optimistic.
And as always we thank you for your time today and your interest in USG.
Thank you.
Thank you.
A replay of this call will be available until Friday May 3.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the USG Corporation's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Walter and I will be your the operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ken Banas.
Mr.
Ken Banas you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call and Live Webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumptions of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
With me today to discuss our results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the quarter for the corporation and the business segments.
We will then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
We would like to ensure that everyone has an opportunity to ask questions.
So as always when we get to the Q&amp;A session callers are asked to limit themselves to one question.
Jim? Thank you Ken and good morning.
We appreciate your interest in USG and I'm looking forward to sharing our results from the quarter as well as discussing our view on the market.
I'm very pleased to report we achieved a net income for the second consecutive quarter and our distribution business L&amp;W Supply generated operating profit for the first time since late in 2008.
These are really important trends for our business as we continue to build on the recovery working to maximize our profitability in all of our segments.
This is despite experiencing some very strong macroeconomic headwinds as we emerge from one of the worst downturns in our industry's history.
We must continue to implement all elements of our Plan to Win.
Our work is not done.
We're very pleased with the quarter but let me get into the business results.
First on our North American Gypsum business.
Our Wallboard results continue to be the primary driver of improved performance.
Wallboard price and volume improved during the quarter and we're pleased with the overall results.
Most of our customers continue to embrace our pricing philosophy because they have an opportunity to improve their margins have certainty on pricing and can lower their administrative costs with a single price for the calendar year.
Additionally in our North American Gypsum segment we recorded strong results in our Joint Treatment business with volumes increasing 17% and gross profit growing by $4 million.
Worldwide Ceilings achieved solid results in the quarter delivering $26 million in operating profit.
Sales were up 6% driven by a shift in mix towards our higher-end products as well as strong volume and favorable costs on both ceiling tile and grid.
Our Ceilings business is performing well despite continued choppiness in the commercial market.
While we are not seeing sustained evidence that this choppiness is behind us we do anticipate a seasonal tick-up in our Ceilings business with the school construction season upon us.
Turning to our Distribution business L&amp;W Supply.
Their trend is positive earning $1 million in the quarter with same-store sales up 13%.
Wallboard's spread percentage also increased by double digits along with modest growth in Wallboard volume.
L&amp;W Supply results in the second quarter illustrate our focus on lowering our breakeven and strengthening our core.
In the third quarter of 2008 the last profitable quarter L&amp;W had the same profit on an additional $200 million in sales an example of the operating leverage we have at L&amp;W and throughout the company.
While L&amp;W has made steady progress our exposure to the commercial market may lead to continued choppiness in the L&amp;W results over the next few quarters.
Our Plan to Win is working and it's evident in our results.
As we've talked in the past our 3 legs of our strategy are: strengthening our core diversifying our earnings and differentiating through innovation.
And these continue to drive our improved performance.
Our commitment to strengthen the core can be seen in the L&amp;W results I just mentioned.
Since the downturn began we closed over 125 L&amp;W locations reduced overhead reduced our delivery cost and more importantly we redefined our value proposition and a focus on the commercial contractor.
L&amp;W Supply also continues to grow its product portfolio outside of Wallboard with a quarterly operating profit growth of over $5 million compared to last year in non-wallboard products like commercial insulation and steel.
The focus on these product categories is an important component of redefining our value proposition to the commercial contractor since commercial projects typically use a larger portfolio of these products.
The second pillar of our strategy is to diversify our earnings.
One part of this strategy is to provide geographic diversity to our earnings to help dampen the cyclicality of our U.S.
business.
Last year we made an important strategic investment in the Middle East region in Oman.
These joint ventures which includes one of the largest gypsum quarries in the world enabled us to service the high-rise market in the Middle East and India.
These markets support our criteria to strategic international markets.
There's growth potential where we can attain a #1 or #2 market position; Western construction practices which give a demand for USG systems especially in commercial construction; and our landed assets.
During the second half of the year we expect to begin selling gypsum rock out of our Oman quarry to the regional cement industry and with our wallboard plant coming online next year.
Differentiating our business through innovation is our third element of our strategic focus and I'm very excited to say that during the quarter we were recognized by the patent board as one of the top innovators in the industrial materials sector.
This recognition is based on the strength and the significance of our patents and the research intensity of our company.
We're very proud of this designation as it illustrates the value of our product innovations and our commitment to providing a pipeline of new products to our customers.
Our strategy provides clarity to our customers and our employees.
Strengthen diversify and differentiate to grow USG.
Now I'd like to turn the presentation over to Matt and he'll give us a greater detail on the quarter.
Matt? Thanks Jim and good morning to all of you.
As Jim mentioned I'll recap our second quarter results and provide some additional details on each of our business segments.
Net sales for the second quarter were $916 million up 15% from the second quarter of last year and up 13% versus the first quarter.
Our second quarter net income was $25 million which compares to a net loss of $57 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The year-on-year improvement was driven by virtually all of our businesses.
As Jim mentioned this was our second consecutive quarter of net income and positive earnings per share.
For the quarter our diluted EPS was $0.22 per share.
We have included 2.5 million of potential common shares in fully diluted EPS.
As a reminder the 35 million shares related to our 2018 convertible debt would not become dilutive and included in our calculation until we have more net income.
Looking at SG&amp;A expenses in the second quarter of 2013 SG&amp;A was $76 million versus $74 million last year.
As stated earlier this year we will continue to work to offset the effects of inflation but still expect SG&amp;A to be up slightly in 2013 versus 2012 primarily starting in Q3 of this year as we make investments in the business particularly in select IT R&amp;D and marketing projects focused on growth.
I will now provide a little more detail on our second quarter segment results.
Net sales for our North American Gypsum segment were $573 million for the quarter and operating profit was $67 million versus net sales of $473 million and an operating profit of $31 million in last year's second quarter.
The primary contribution was our Wallboard price increase contributing $27 million.
Our U.S.
Wallboard business shipped approximately 1.3 billion square feet in the quarter an increase of 12% compared to the second quarter of last year and an increase of 16% from the first quarter.
Our quarterly increase was slightly off the industry pace of 14% because of seasonality in the big-box channel where we have a higher share.
We had an average realized Wallboard sales price of $153.77 for the second quarter of 2013 compared to $132.09 in the second quarter a year ago.
As we have previously stated this price may vary slightly throughout the year due to changes in freight mix regional demand fluctuations including exports.
For Q2 our price held steady relative to Q1 and we remain very pleased with the price improvement versus the prior year.
We believe that we have realized pricing improvement due to our high-quality products strong customer service and our commitment to help our customers improve their product offerings and profitability as we build on the recovery.
This helps USG's path to generating an appropriate return on invested capital.
Additionally we are driving strong growth in our surfaces and substrates businesses which include Joint Compound and DUROCK respectively.
During the quarter we grew our Joint Compound revenue by $12 million and operating profit by $4 million while also growing our DUROCK revenue by $6 million and operating profit by $1 million.
Our offshore shipping business GTL generated $5 million in increased operating profit for North American Gypsum primarily due to timing of shipments this year versus last year.
Turning to Worldwide Ceilings.
Our Ceilings business delivered a second quarter operating profit of $26 million in 2013.
Absent a $3 million environmental charge related to a property we sold decades ago this would have been our best quarter of operating profit in history.
Improved price cost and volume for both our ceiling tile and grid products helped drive our results along with a $2 million improvement in our USG International business.
In our Building Products Distribution segment L&amp;W earned $1 million in operating profit on $319 million in sales compared with an operating loss of $7 million on $293 million in sales during the second quarter of 2012.
L&amp;W's Wallboard volume and price were up during the quarter contributing $5 million in incremental operating profit versus the second quarter of 2012.
Additionally L&amp;W continues to diversify its product offering beyond Wallboard as non-wallboard sales contributed an additional $5 million in incremental operating profit.
L&amp;W same-store sales growth was 13% year-over-year evidence of our improved product volume and price.
For all of USG our second quarter incremental operating profit was about 40%.
The occurrence and timing of certain costs impacted our leverage this quarter.
Frankly fluctuations on a quarterly basis are not surprising.
Historically when coming out of a recession we have had incremental operating margins in the range of 30% to 50%.
Over the last 6 quarters we have averaged about 65%.
Again we are committed to taking steps needed to lower our breakeven but we do anticipate our operating margins will fluctuate and be impacted by anticipated costs to serve growing demand.
Turning to our cash position.
Our cash and marketable securities declined by $123 million in the first 6 months of 2013 as we expected.
$45 million was used for normal operations including seasonal increases in working capital and increases as a result of our growth.
We also spent $46 million in CapEx of which $11 million was spent by our Oman consolidated joint ventures.
In addition we spent $17 million for the acquisition of mining rights in Oman during the first quarter.
As of June 30 of this year we had total liquidity of $846 million including $550 million of cash.
And we believe our liquidity is well positioned and strong for this point in the cycle.
Let me conclude by saying that while we are very pleased to have delivered 2 consecutive quarters of net income we recognize that this is just another step towards earning the appropriate return on invested capital for each of our businesses.
So with that I'll turn it back to you Jim.
Thank you Matt.
Now I'd like to discuss some of the thoughts we have on the first half of 2013 on the market and how we see the balance of the year unfolding.
First up on the residential market.
The residential recovery has experienced some recent headwinds that I'm sure you've all seen impacted primarily by increased interest rates.
In June housing starts and permits did fall primarily -- driven primarily by the multifamily construction.
Despite the fall in starts NAHB sentiment index rose by 6% to 57 in July its third consecutive monthly gain and strongest reading since 2006.
Our estimate of approximately 900 000 housing starts in 2013 is not at risk.
We will continue though to be cautious matching our level of investment and our expectations with what the market will provide.
We do believe that the residential recovery is intact and despite the potential unevenness in the rate of improvement we're still very optimistic in the future.
Our overall expectation is that the growth in Repair and Remodel will continue in the low single-digit range for the remainder of the year.
We are very well positioned as Matt said to benefit from the growth in R&amp;R with our strong partnerships with the large big-box retailers.
And the continued increase in home prices we think will add valuable equity to homeowners for future remodeling projects.
In the commercial segment the key economic indicators continue to fluctuate.
McGraw-Hill and EBI both have sent mixed signals for much of this year.
We feel this indicates that choppiness in commercial construction we've been talking about will likely persist for the unforeseeable future.
We have seen some green shoots though in our commercial recovery through the conversations with our commercial customers through L&amp;W and building systems team.
But we do have a lag as we've mentioned to you in the past on the majority of our products particularly ceiling tiles.
We don't anticipate any sustained traction in commercial until possibly mid-next year.
While we think that recovery is underway and the opportunities returning to our business we are cautiously optimistic because of the impact of the overall economy may have on our business.
I want to say that we remain very committed to our strategy and continuing to strengthen our North American manufacturing and distribution businesses is going to be absolutely critical as we see improvement in opportunity across all of our segments.
So with that I'd like to open it up for questions and then we'll conclude with some closing remarks.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on your comment about the incremental margin.
Totally agree that certainly that's going to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and over the last -- certainly the last year it's has been quite strong [ph].
I was wondering if you maybe nevertheless tell us if there was anything in the quarter that did create any kind of a temporary drag to the incrementals and if you foresee anything that's worth talking about in 3Q that you think that we should just be mindful of as we're modeling out incremental margins.
Right.
Stephen this is Matt Hilzinger.
I'll answer your second quarter -- question.
But first let me just say 40% operating leverage is still impressive.
And if you put it in historical perspective and these were in my remarks when we come out of a recession we generally earn between 30% and 50% in incremental operating profit.
If you look over the last 6 quarters we've averaged around 64% so pretty good numbers.
On a quarter-to-quarter basis the incremental operating profit is sensitive.
And so some variation.
You shouldn't be surprised in seeing that and I think the second quarter is not an exception to that.
And in fact if you think about the first quarter we had very strong incremental operating profit in the first quarter and part of it is just the numbers right? We had incremental revenue in the first quarter of $31 million and incremental operating profit of $25 million.
And if you look at the second quarter you had revenue of $118 million and incremental operating profit of $46 million.
So there's going to be variations just because of the size of the change in the revenue.
But with respect to the second quarter there were some items in the second quarter I think to be specific to your question it was a reversal of a mark-to-market for natural gas.
So there was about a $7 million swing.
We had a $3 million positive mark in the first quarter.
It was to a $4 million negative mark in the second quarter.
We had an environmental charge that I referenced in my remarks of $3 million.
There were changes in some of the restructuring reserves.
There was some timing of SG&amp;A in Q1.
So as you think about Q3 I don't think there's anything specifically to note or through the balance of the year.
I mean the numbers will be what the numbers are.
But I would like to say this we would like to continue to beat the historical average.
That's clearly where we're headed.
But we do see some headwinds out there.
This year in the first quarter and in the second quarter we saw labor cost move up a little bit as we gave people raises.
We've seen a little bit of inflation in raw material.
You think about natural gas last year in '12 we were at historical lows of in the $2 range and we are now in the high $3s.
So there's some changes there.
There was a little bit of power in the numbers right? I mean if you think about the wallboard price increase we got the same dollar increase that we got in '12 but it's just smaller as a percentage of sales.
So that -- just the way you run the numbers will drive some of the incremental margins down.
And then lastly as I referenced and Jim has talked about in the past we may need to selectively add back some cost over time to be growing demand.
Our effective capacity right now is about 80%.
There's room through the year to increase demand without having to add shifts across the network.
We might add one here or there.
But we're going to see that as we move through.
And again I'll just finish up and just say we're going to continue to lower the breakeven with things that we're doing in terms of shared services and Lean Six Sigma are all important things that I think will help us continue to keep our leverage where we want it to be.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
So just to touch on your comments earlier about the rising interest rates and the impact that it had on the new construction market during the quarter I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about some of the demand trends that you saw during the quarter and if you actually saw an impact on your new construction piece of the Wallboard business during the quarter.
And if so how much of an impact would you say you saw? Actually we did not.
The quarter we're quite pleased with on a volume -- if you look at our overall business about 25% of our business is on new res.
Half of our portfolio is on that R&amp;R segment which the second quarter is -- they go into lawn and garden the big-box retailers go into lawn and garden.
So we saw a little bit of a pause in that segment.
But the residential market we basically lag housing starts by 3.5 months.
So it's pretty keen.
If you look at where housing starts are on a monthly basis you add 3.5 months that's really our demand.
So there may be some -- we may see some things in the third quarter with a little bit of pause there.
But what's good about that is that's where our big-box business starts coming back where they go back out of lawn and garden in the fall season.
It's very very important for us there.
So that's -- it kind of balances out the new res.
So long answer to your question we did not see an impact in the quarter from res.
Our next question comes from Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Mike Dahl on for Dan.
I was hoping you could drill down a little bit more into L&amp;W and the trends you saw in the quarter.
When you talk about volume being up a little where specifically are you seeing kind of the puts and takes? And on the commercial side where do you see some of the kind of biggest near-term opportunities if you think the overall market is still about a year away from really inflecting? And remind us what the effective utilization rate is on that business.
The L&amp;W business as we talked is very focused on the commercial business which is still in some pretty low numbers.
If you look at total commercial business this year it's up about 8%.
But if you look at a footage basis it's still some low numbers.
L&amp;W is a national business but what we saw is some regional strength.
It's very strong in the Texas markets very strong in Northern California.
We're seeing some strength in commercial business in the middle part of the country.
So it's very regional.
The backlog will vary by geographic region.
What we're doing -- what we're seeing on the incremental -- the comp store sales increase you saw was really expanding the portfolio.
We're very focused on the non-wallboard products as well not just selling wallboard to a customer.
It's commercial steel insulation ceiling tile grid fasteners.
It's really providing that bigger share of wallet.
So where we've done a nice job in the slow market at L&amp;W is focus on the geographic regions focus on commercial Repair and Remodel.
That has been a strong part of the business the maintenance side of the business and high-rise construction but also increasing the share of wallet for the non-wallboard products.
And you can see the improvement on the numbers that we talked about.
If you look at the effective capacity a typical L&amp;W branch will get 3 turns in a day delivery turns.
And we have a lot of room to go before we start adding staff there as well.
Very similar to what Matt talked about on the manufacturing side.
We want to continue to keep our breakeven low and we're going to really -- we think we still have some room to go on a volume basis before we start adding any significant type of overhead to our delivery business as well.
Our next question comes from Bob Wetenhall with RBC Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you -- great job on SG&amp;A leverage.
You saved 100 basis points.
SG&amp;A is up $2 million year-over-year and revenues were up $118 million.
That obviously shows a lot of cost control.
Just want to understand is this sustainable? And can you guys find additional areas to reduce costs and drive better margin performance in SG&amp;A? I'm just going to just make a couple of comments and I'm going to turn it over to Matt.
And as we talked before focusing on keeping our breakeven very low and having as much leverage and as Matt said in his previous comments we want to really beat those historic leverage numbers that we talked about those leverage percentages.
So we work very diligently the last 5 years of strengthening the core of this business and we have to be a -- we're very focused on cost control both structural costs and input costs.
And we are going -- we have all hands on deck.
We want to grow the business.
But the tricky thing now is we want to grow the business and keep our breakeven low.
So what we've talked about is we need to be an ambidextrous organization to do both.
It's not one or the other.
So I want to assure you we're extremely focused and this CEO is very extremely focused on cost control.
There are some strategic investments we want to make to grow the business but we're going to be very diligent about that SG&amp;A number that you talked about.
Yes.
And Jim I would add this to Bob's question.
We're roughly flat year-over-year through the first 6 months.
And as I said in my remarks Bob we're probably going to see a little bit of a tickup in the second half as we start making some of the strategic investments.
And again some of that stuff in IT in R&amp;D -- IT just an example we're putting in some sales force automation here which we think is strategic to us and kind of a strategic weapon that will allow us to kind of drive the top line but also drive some efficiencies in our cost side as well.
So the way that we think about SG&amp;A is we're driving out the low value added where we can and we're using Lean Six Sigma and those type of processes to do that.
And so we're going to add back where we think we can really drive kind of growth and value to the shareholders.
So you may see us tick up a little bit as I said in the second half but it's really based on more strategic growth investments than anything else.
Our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson with Thompson Research.
LLC</strong> Could you discuss your thoughts on potential capacity additions and thinking about 2 different ways? This could include reopening of a production line within a current plant or entirely opening a mothball plant.
And what -- how much would volume have to increase before making decision to add workers given the increase in overall demand? Well I will say right now we have absolutely no plans to open up a mothball plant nor a line.
We feel that we've taken out all of our high-cost old capacity.
We've idled some capacity.
And if you remember the longer you idle capacity the more expensive it is to bring back and you're dealing with an old technology.
We feel that we have anywhere between 15% and 20% of total volume that we could increase without adding a shift.
We're working overtime.
We're hiring people here and there.
We're very busy in for example I mentioned in the Texas market.
But we really focus on overtime first adding a body here and there.
Then you would add a shift and then it would be as you mentioned a possible line in a current plant.
But I think we're a long way from that.
Our capacity utilization effective as Matt said is around 80%.
And it's really -- that is a national number.
There's some areas where it's much below that and in Texas it's higher than that.
So from a mothball perspective we -- I think it's historically we've done that once in the history and that was a bad idea.
And again that is something that is not in our plans.
Our next question comes from Trey Grooms with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick on L&amp;W.
You guys had touched on the fact that there's going to be some choppiness there.
And you made it to profitability getting in the black there which is great.
But with that choppiness I mean should we be thinking about kind of staying around the breakeven mark in that business give or take a little bit of just kind of in the near term? Or is the choppiness you were referring to more on kind of the top line there? Well I think with the large exposure that we have at L&amp;W with the commercial business and you see the numbers as we do it really depends on the commercial segment.
I mean office construction are we positioned with the contractor that does office construction? Are we positioned in an area where they do retail? Well retail is quite strong in that segment.
But yes Trey I would say we're looking from an opportunity really to get some wind at our back from a demand standpoint as we position L&amp;W.
We're looking -- 2014 is really when we'll start to see a little bit of traction.
But even the 2014 numbers I know that what we're seeing from McGraw-Hill they're up 16% but it's from a low level.
So we're coming from a very low level.
So what we're doing at L&amp;W we're -- as I said earlier we're getting a larger share of wallet.
We're trying to position with commercial contractors that are in segments that are growing and it's really geographically.
There are some areas of L&amp;W from a profitability standpoint in the country that are doing extremely well now.
But having that national footprint there are still some pockets -- you see employment where it is now there's still some pockets that aren't doing great.
So we're very happy.
We're in the black in the quarter.
And our job is to continue that trend.
And we do not want to go backwards.
But I just -- we just wanted to reiterate there is some headwinds in our face in our distribution business.
But we have not -- we are still optimistic.
And the other thing with L&amp;W they don't get a chance to really participate in that Residential R&amp;R that we're talking about and they have a smaller footprint in residential as well.
So this is a long-term play for us.
We think the commercial business is better positioned for us at L&amp;W.
But it's going to be -- we're going to have some chop here probably for the next 3 4 quarters.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois with Longbow Research.
Just wondering if you could provide a little bit more color on the strength in the DUROCK and Joint Compound revenues in the quarter and then also maybe help us better understand the incremental profitability of those product lines as they impact the Wallboard division and assuming those continue to recover what kind of profitability whether it's margins compared to the prior cycle or incremental margins related to the consolidated average we should be thinking about? That would be helpful.
I'll just -- I'll touch on -- really the DUROCK is part of our substrate division and Joint Treatment is part of our surfaces division.
What we did is we got into the recession -- Wallboard casts a long shadow in these businesses.
So we put together business units with general managers that focus both on these 2 segments the substrates business which includes DUROCK and FIBEROCK as well as our Industrial Gypsum business and surfaces which is also Joint Treatment.
And we don't talk a lot about our plaster business which is a strong business for us from a market share standpoint.
If you look at the results a couple of things have happened.
First we've talked a lot about our UltraLight and Wallboard.
What we did -- our UltraLight -- our lightweight technology we started with DUROCK 5 years ago.
And we lightened DUROCK and we really focused on the chemistry of our cement board.
And what we did is took the weight out reduced our cost and we got price premium in the market because of performance and how it compares against competition.
So what you're seeing in our DUROCK and the last -- the last couple of quarters we've highlighted a little bit is that the lightweight technology really has taken root in the cement -- our cement board as well as we've talked in many quarters about what UltraLight has done on the Wallboard side.
On Joint Treatment as well we continue to expand our lightweight technology to Joint Treatment and this is just not a one-trick-pony play on Wallboard.
So if you look at our whole portfolio of products we are going to continue to make them lighter and perform better in the markets.
So we can either have a cost-neutral position on the manufacturing side if not lower and get a price premium because it performs better than competition.
So from a macro standpoint that's what's really been happening in those portfolios.
And Joint Treatment for example and DUROCK are really contractor-preferred products.
This is a pull-through strategy.
A lot of our work from our field group has been done on the field getting our shoes dirty and this really isn't a dealer push.
This is a contractor pull.
So what you're seeing on the Joint Treatment with the increase in residential markets that's pulling through more of our Joint Treatment because it is a contractor-preferred product.
So you have the product technology side that we've done over the last few years lowering the weight.
You also have the focus on the pull strategy of being in the field as well as the residential market including.
One other thing that I would like to add on that is our FIBEROCK business which is part of that substrates business.
We have found a new market.
The commercial roofing market is a growing market for us.
And FIBEROCK is a product that is in many roofing systems now that we have a focus on the commercial roofing business which also helps us diversify our earnings to some adjacent products.
So I think the long and the short of this is innovation is all the way through why these products are performing better.
The numbers are the numbers and you're going to continue to see solid performance here but that's why innovation is really really key to us because it's what the customers -- it's what the customers want but also from a financial standpoint it gives us better performance.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the Ceilings business.
If you look at your end user markets there can you give a sort of a flavor of what's working what's not working in the second quarter? The -- our Ceilings business as Matt indicated if we pull out that one environmental charge it was a record quarter.
We saw a little bit of top line growth but really it's been focused.
And really what's been working well in the second quarter it's been working really the last probably 3 years is our focus on the commercial Repair and Remodel side of the business and the big-box retailers.
Along with that we have shored up our distribution business not only through L&amp;W but we have some very strategic key ceiling tile distributors that we've upgraded not only the network of distribution but their focus on ceilings.
So it has been the market focus on the repair -- or the commercial Repair and Remodel and also a focus on distribution and retail.
Along with that is we have a tremendous focus on the architectural side on the higher-end products.
These are the high-end high-performing products that have improved margins.
In fact our plant in Cloquet Minnesota has basically been sold out.
And that is one of our capital investments we're going to be making is expanding our high-end product line in our Cloquet Minnesota plant to take care of these products that are being specified at the architectural level.
So there hasn't been one soft to our recipe here.
It's been hitting it at many angles.
The key is we've been really focused on profitability and taking cost out of our manufacturing side of the business.
But more importantly it's focused on the higher-end products where we think the customers are growing architecturally.
So we're very pleased with our Ceilings results.
And for our Ceilings team they've done a wonderful job.
Through this entire recession in fact our Ceilings business has been the shining star as we've navigated through this 4-year 5-year recession.
So we're quite pleased with it and we expect continued results.
Our next question comes from Daniel Downes with B.C.
Holdings.
Your free cash flow for the first half of the year was negative $85 million.
Can you give us some indication of where you expect the second half free cash flow will look like? And I would assume your balance sheet at year-end will be in better shape.
Can you kind of address what your plans are to use kind of free cash flow in 2014 and onward? Yes.
This is Matt.
Yes this is Matthew Hilzinger.
So the first half as I said in my remarks we did use a fair amount of cash.
Part of it was in working capital for growth of the business and part of it was for just CapEx as we expected.
So there was nothing unusual that we saw in the first half of the year.
And quite frankly we don't expect to see anything unusual in the second half of the year.
We're going to make our normal pension contribution this quarter.
And we'll use a little bit of cash there as we have done in the past.
So as we look at our balance sheet through the balance of the year and what we expect at year end is we expect to be in good shape.
As you look back over the last probably 6 7 quarters each quarter the balance sheet has gotten in better shape.
A lot of that is being driven by kind of earnings and the cash flow that are coming off of that.
We do have an event a possible event at the end of the year that we're evaluating and I think we've talked about the converts.
We have $400 million of convertible securities.
They're held by Fairfax and Berkshire.
Those are callable in December.
They've got a coupon of 10% and we've got a couple of objectives as we kind of think about the balance sheet and think about liquidity.
One is we want to protect our NOLs.
For those that followed us know that we have over $2 billion of NOLs and we want to delever the balance sheet.
And so one of the things that we're going to be looking at is and we haven't made a decision yet is to whether we want to call those convertible securities.
And it's -- we're going through that analysis now.
I think we've had some conversations with shareholders in the past about some of the intertwined issues we have between our NOL and the convertible securities.
So not to digress but I'll just give you a little bit of background.
We have this NOL.
It's about $2 billion.
It's got a cash value worth about $1 billion.
Under the federal tax code Section 382 if there is a change in control as defined by the code and it's rather complicated but in simple terms it basically says that if there's a group of shareholders that have a 5% holders or more that churn more than 50% of the stock over 3 years that would deem itself as a change in control.
And as we look at the converts and if we converted 100% of converts we would put about 35 million shares out in the market and that could negatively impact our NOL.
So when the process of working with the IRS getting some private letter rulings on some things that can impact our decision about whether and how much we want to do the converts at the end of the year.
But that's an event that we're looking at to help delever the balance sheet.
So overall I think we're in good shape.
Our next question comes from Peter Lisnic with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Josh Chan filling in for Pete.
You mentioned the movement in natural gas prices.
I understand you're mostly hedged in 2013 if I'm not mistaken.
But as you look to start to hedge your cost for next year how do you think about the potential magnitude of impact here with the natural gas prices where they are? This is Matt Hilzinger again.
So we're about 90% hedged for 2013 and we're about 20% hedged for 2014.
One of the things that we've always said is that we like to be at least 50% hedged going into the next year.
And so we are in the process of layering in hedges.
Clearly gas prices are higher if you take a look at the forward curve for 2014 than they are right now.
I mean if you look at -- I think the forward curve for natural gas is just under $4.
If you look at our kind of all-in hedged price for this year we're around $3.70.
So unless gas prices come down substantially we would expect to see a little bit of a price increase as we look towards 2014 in our cost structure.
So we're going to continue with our hedging strategy.
It's been very good for us.
We're going to be thoughtful about it.
We're going to put it in ratably and we'll keep you updated.
Todd Vencil with Sterne Agee is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> It's Todd Vencil Sterne Agee.
I wanted to ask about incremental margins and just follow up on your comments and then the question that we had earlier.
I think you guys are looking at that inclusive of pricing? And if there's a way can you kind of pull out the pricing and talk about what the incrementals look like on -- just on what kind of incrementals you're getting on additional volume as that starts to come through how that compares this time with prior cycles and then what you expect to see there going forward? From a macro level the way you should look at it is if you look at those last 3 examples we used the recession of the early '80s '90s and 2000s as Matt said we averaged anywhere between $0.30 and $0.50 of incrementals.
Typically as you come out of those recessions there was price improvement.
So those did include price in there.
So we're doing a comparison with price in there.
But the way that you should look at it in those 3 recessions we did not take out the amount of cost that we've taken out in these last 4 years.
We've taken out approximately $550 million.
We plan to keep as much if not all of that out of our cost structures.
So the last 3 of the 30% to 50% did not include the tremendous cost reductions that we've done recently at L&amp;W Supply.
Those reductions that 30% to 50% typically were at the U.S.
Gypsum segment.
So there's -- I just wanted -- when you look at the comparisons of where we were versus the last cycles it was Gypsum only.
The costs weren't taken out and pricing was in those segments the price improvement.
If you look at -- obviously the price improvement currently is very strong.
To the bottom line that contributed probably 3 quarters of the improvement at U.S.
Gypsum.
But peeling that aside we do look at costs at the plants SG&amp;A structural cost reductions as Matt said doing more with less.
We're finishing up a program where we're looking at our back offices throughout the company and really leveraging technology.
So to give you a quick answer on pricing what would it look like with price out of it obviously the numbers would not be at the level you're talking about.
But if you're comparing us to the previous cycles you'd have to take those out as well.
So we feel that our objective and here's the key our objective is to maximize that leverage and that's why we're very focused on keeping our breakeven at some extremely aggressive levels.
So when we grow the business for every dollar that we have a high percentage going to the bottom line.
Our next question comes from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on L&amp;W and a bigger picture question here.
If you think about the return to profitability and your goal to increase non-wallboard products can you share with us maybe what -- if there's a sort of a target on how much as a percentage that non-wallboard products could make up for this business? Yes.
Right now the non-wallboard products if you look at the portfolio are more than half of the sales right now.
But those are really in 3 key areas construction steel commercial ceilings and grid.
Where our main focus would be -- we have 7 core product categories.
The other main focus is on commercial insulation.
We feel there is a big opportunity to grow our share there.
And what we're doing just from a global perspective is we feel that our share in the non-wallboard products should be equal to if not greater than the share we have in Wallboard.
So for example if we have a 12% or 15% market share as an example in Wallboard we would want to have those other products equal to if not greater.
So commercial insulation is not there.
Exterior finishes we're largest Dryvit distributor in the United States.
We want to continue to grow the exterior part of the business.
The fastener business is a key area.
So those are areas that when you think about a commercial job we want to be able to have a one-stop shop on 7 core product areas for our contractors.
And what is nice about those products the margin flexibility as you go forward the cyclicality is not as great as Wallboard.
So it brings more value to our customers and a lot of it is just asking for that order and being the expert in that product category.
So we have some work to do in those areas but we have some great support with our suppliers both our insulation and our fastener and our exterior suppliers.
But more importantly is we have focused the L&amp;W sales organization to focus on those products as well as the wallboard products as well.
Research Division</strong> If I may it's a regional business so I guess the near term meaning 12 18 months you'll be looking to intensify those routes with expanded products as opposed to reopening or adding facilities you may have recently closed is that fair? Yes we -- yes that's a fair statement.
There may be -- you may see a location here or there.
But we look at -- we feel that we still have -- there was an earlier question on kind of capacity utilization of L&amp;W.
With the commercial market being still relatively choppy we do not plan on opening up locations.
We feel that we can cover geographic areas with our current footprint.
You will see maybe -- if there's a void if we exited a market and we think there's a market that we can make some money we'll do that.
But we're going to be very diligent.
There's been a lot of hard work about lowering our breakeven.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Just quickly the comment Jim I think from a couple of questions ago on the cost takeout and the volume leverage what I heard you say was that volume leverage should be stronger this cycle because of all the hard work you've done on the cost side.
Is that true? And is that what you've seen so far during the recovery? Yes.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood with Macquarie.
Yes.
Also on L&amp;W you talked about the value proposition from the value add that you're bringing there and also the cost takeout.
Do you have a sense in terms of normalized non-res starts in MRO activity what we should expect with operating margins in the segment? Well if you look at the -- if you look at over the average over maybe the last 10 or 15 years it's been high single digits.
And if you -- obviously we've taken out more cost here so we -- and our plan would be to have higher operating margin percentages.
So you look -- historically probably 8% 8.5% has been the average margin through the cycles.
Okay.
And the addition do you have an estimate of that what you're bringing out with this richer product mix and the cost? Well obviously I don't like to give you a projection right now but the intent is to maximize that.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
It's John filling in for Steve.
I had my line muted but the question was answered.
Okay.
Thank you.
Just to wrap up I'd like to say in the quarter as we talked about we achieved our second consecutive quarter of net income generating $25 million in earnings on over $900 million in sales.
For comparison the last time we achieved a comparable net income was the third quarter of 2007 when we earned $7 million on $1.3 billion in revenue.
This is really important because it illustrates the leverage we've been talking about.
There were a lot of questions here on the leverage that we have within our business.
Since the downturn began we have become a more nimble and more efficient company and I'd like to say a leaner company with a focus on growth.
While the trend in our results -- and we're quite pleased with the quarter but we are no means satisfied with the present level of earnings and we do have still -- we have more work to do to maximize the value of USG.
We do believe the recovery has started.
And we talked about we may face some headwinds in the commercial business in our L&amp;W business.
But regardless I want to say we're committed to focus on doing both lowering our breakeven and growing our business as the recovery strengthens.
As always I thank you for your time today your interest in USG and we'll be looking forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thank you.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Friday August 2.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the USG Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janine and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ken Banas.
Ken you may now begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's third quarter 2013 earnings conference call and live webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call maybe forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumptions of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
With me today to discuss our results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the quarter for the corporation and the business segments.
We'll then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
As always we'd like to ensure that everyone has an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Jim? Thank you Ken.
Good morning and I appreciate everyone joining us this morning.
This is a very exciting time at USG and I'm looking forward to sharing our results from the quarter our view on the market and an update on our new international investment.
During the third quarter all of our businesses generated an operating profit and the corporation achieved net income for the third consecutive quarter.
We believe we turned the corner and our Plan to Win is beginning to drive our performance improving both our year-on-year top and bottom lines during the past several quarters.
Despite macroeconomic headwinds and some uneven economic data particularly in the commercial segment we believe that the recovery is strengthening in all of our end-use markets.
Looking at Repair and Remodel residential and commercial 2013 is stronger than last year and we are optimistic about the 2014 market demand.
It's important to know that we still have a long runway before we get to historic averages in each one of the segments.
But we do see light at the end of the tunnel.
While we are cautiously optimistic the positive trend in our results and the confidence in our recovery are enabling us to take a more proactive approach.
You may have noticed that we have a new look.
We recently launched a new brand a tagline and an Olympic sponsorship.
The new brand is a reflection of our company emerging stronger from what -- I like to say we've been through a small-d depression.
And our new tagline "It's your world.
Build it " reflects our commitment to all of our customers.
To activate our brand the Olympic sponsorship gives us a platform for international brand visibility.
Also as you may have heard last week we had some very exciting news as we announced an international joint venture with Boral Limited.
This joint venture with the leading plasterboard manufacturer that's based in Australia positions USG very well in high-growth areas throughout Asia Australasia and the Middle East.
I'll discuss our partnership in a few minutes but now I'd like to shift to our performance during the quarter.
In our North American Gypsum business we had generated our best third quarter of operating profit since 2006.
To put this in perspective in 2006 Wallboard total demand was 36 billion feet compared to around 20.5 billion this year.
And I think that's an amazing comparison of all the hard work all of our employees have done over the last 5 years.
The primary driver of our improved results continues to be improvement in wallboard price volume and growth of our UltraLight portfolio.
During the quarter our SHEETROCK Brand UltraLight Panels represented 58% of our total shipments the strongest quarter since we launched this very exciting technology.
UltraLight continues to command a premium in the market helping our customers improve their productivity and most importantly our customers profitability.
Worldwide Ceilings continues to perform well and we are making some important strategic investments in Ceilings to better position us for the commercial recovery.
We're making upgrades that are currently underway at our Cloquet Minnesota plant which produces most of our hot performance products.
This investment is designed to increase our capacity improve our efficiency and most importantly improve our cost position.
During the quarter our Ceilings business delivered $22 million in operating profit.
However our operating profits were down 8% due to softer volume in both ceiling tile and grid and this is evidence of the continued soft commercial segment particularly in the education segment.
Now turning to our Building Products Distribution business L&amp;W Supply.
L&amp;W generated a second consecutive quarter of positive operating results earning $3 million in the quarter with comp store sales up 14%.
We're seeing improved results at L&amp;W across all of the core product areas with Wallboard -- the Wallboard category being the primary driver of the improved results.
L&amp;W continues to make great strides in the results despite the exposure to this persistently choppy commercial market which accounts for about 75% of L&amp;W sales.
Our strategy strengthening the core diversifying our earnings and differentiating through innovation continues to drive our improved performance.
We've made progress throughout this downturn and that these 3 pillars have built the foundation for strong earnings potential as we see demand improving.
Our commitment to strengthening the core is evident in the L&amp;W results I just mentioned.
Despite fluctuations in the commercial segment L&amp;W has generated consecutive quarters of operating results for the first time since 2008.
L&amp;W's commitment to product portfolio growth beyond Wallboard has helped drive revenue and margin improvement across all the categories as well as the 14% more revenue that we ran through the branch network during the quarter.
We're also continuing in L&amp;W to reduce costs with a focus on lowering our breakeven.
The second pillar of our strategy is to diversify our earnings.
As I mentioned a few minutes ago we made a significant step forward by entering into a 50-50 long-term joint venture with Boral Limited.
The joint venture which is called USG Boral Building Products will give us critical mass that would have taken years and significant capital if we obtained it independently.
It's immediately accretive it's NPV positive and it's balance sheet neutral.
Leveraging Boral's extensive manufacturing footprint and their sales organization coupled with USG's superior technology and our assets both in the Middle East and Asia will enable us to grow our Wallboard and adjacent products through several of the world's highest growth construction markets.
We've talked the last several years about the importance at USG of diversifying our earnings.
We've taken some important steps to date but this investment is a major leap forward as we build critical mass in our international business.
The joint venture which is expected to be self-funding gives us immediate significant presence and most importantly a competitive advantage throughout this fast-growing region.
We expect USG Boral Building Products will deliver synergies help smooth out some of the cyclicality that's inherent in our business and most importantly generate positive earnings for the long term.
The last part of our strategy is differentiating through innovation.
Now I'd like to spend a moment on another new product we've introduced this year SHEETROCK UltraLight Mold Tough panels.
This product extension was introduced earlier this year and is the industry's first and only lightweight mold-resistant product.
SHEETROCK UltraLight Mold Tough products are easier to lift carry and install.
They perform extremely well in high humidity areas.
In some of the international markets I just mentioned this product will be excellent for.
And most importantly it's the lightest weight half-inch mold-resistant panel that's available today.
There's a clear contractor preference for this product and we are extremely excited to make it available nationwide by the end of this year.
This product adds to our industry only lightweight platform of panels and joint finishing.
We are committed on delivering all the key elements of our strategy and we will continue to strengthen diversify and differentiate our business to grow USG.
Now with that I'd like to turn it over to Matt who's now going to provide greater details on the results from the quarter.
Matt? Thanks Jim and good morning to everyone who has joined us today.
I'll take you through our third quarter results and provide some additional details into each of our business segments.
During the third quarter net sales were $925 million up 12% from the third quarter of last year.
Our third quarter GAAP net income was $23 million which compares to a net loss of $29 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $24 million versus an adjusted net loss of $27 million in the third quarter of 2012.
The third quarter GAAP net income measure is about $1 million lower than our adjusted net income due to taxes associated with the sale of our European business in the third quarter of last year.
The year-on-year improvement in net income was driven by improved results in all of our businesses.
We generated our third consecutive quarter of net income and positive net earnings reporting diluted earnings per share of $0.22 from continuing operations.
For those of you looking at our EPS calculation we have included about 2.5 million shares of potential common in our diluted EPS but we will not include the 35 million shares related to our 2018 convertible debt in our dilutive calculation and won't until we have more net income.
Overall we had a solid -- a very solid third quarter.
Sales in each of our segments outperformed last year and we are very pleased with the results.
But before I get into the specifics of each segment I'll make a few comments on our SG&amp;A expenses.
As I mentioned on several of our past earnings calls we have expected our SG&amp;A for 2013 to be slightly higher than last year with most of the increase coming in the second half of this year.
So the increase in our third quarter SG&amp;A expenses which increased to $80 million from $74 million a year ago was planned.
The increase in this quarter is largely due to additional marketing and IT investments as we continue to enhance our ability to serve our customers.
In addition during the third quarter we made incremental investments in our SHEETROCK UltraLight platform as well as an investment in our new corporate branding strategy.
As we look to the fourth quarter we expect SG&amp;A to be higher than last year as we make incremental investments to drive growth in our business.
We will continue to work to offset the effects of inflation and our additional customer focus investments but we still expect SG&amp;A to be up slightly in 2013 versus 2012.
Now I'd like to walk through our third quarter segment results.
In our North American Gypsum segment we recorded net sales of $577 million for the quarter and operating profit of $76 million compared to net sales of $496 million and an operating profit of $35 million in last year's third quarter.
The primary contributor to our improved results is our Wallboard business which contributed $32 million in margin improvement and $7 million in volume improvement.
Our U.S.
Wallboard business shipped approximately 1.37 billion square feet in the quarter an increase of 6% compared to the second quarter of this year and an increase of 14% compared to the third quarter of last year.
Our quarter-over-quarter increase was better than the industry pace of 9% due in part to our shipments to both the big-box channel and the specialty dealer channel but also due to the growth in our UltraLight volumes which we believe resulted in modest share gains.
We had an average realized Wallboard sales price of about $154 for the third quarter of 2013 basically flat sequentially to the second quarter but an improvement of 17% compared to an average realized Wallboard sales price of about $132 in the third quarter of 2012.
As we have previously stated this price may vary throughout the year due to changes in freight mix regional demand fluctuations excluding exports.
We remain very pleased with the price improvement versus the prior year and believe that we continue to realize pricing improvement due to our high-quality products strong customer relationships and service and our commitment to help our customers improve their product offerings and profitability as we build on a recovery.
The improvement in our Wallboard business is an important component of our business generating an appropriate return on invested capital.
Our offshore shipping business GTL produced $4 million less in operating profit in the third quarter of 2013 versus last year primarily due to timing which is associated with how we account for these shipments.
For the full year 2013 we expect our GTL business to generate a slightly greater level of profit than it did in 2012 and the cadence of how we realize it will fluctuate as well.
So for the fourth quarter this year we expect our GTL profit to be around $8 million to $10 million.
Shifting to our Worldwide Ceilings business.
We delivered another solid quarter with operating profit of $22 million compared with $24 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Similar to the second quarter this year our results were adversely impacted by another $3 million environmental charge related to a property we sold decades ago.
If not for this charge we would have improved our 2012 results.
Our USG Interiors business performed well from a gross margin standpoint but sales were flat and operating profits were down due to softer volumes in both our ceiling tile and our grid business related to the ongoing choppiness in the commercial markets.
Additionally revenues in our USG International business improved by 13% while margins fell $2 million primarily attributable to an increase in overhead and miscellaneous costs associated with the startup of our joint ventures in Oman.
In our Building Products Distribution segment L&amp;W generated an operating profit of $3 million on $331 million in sales compared with an operating loss of $10 million on $300 million in sales during the third quarter of 2012.
Same-store sales increased by 14% versus the third quarter of 2012.
L&amp;W's Wallboard volume and price were up during the quarter contributing $7 million in incremental operating profit.
Additionally L&amp;W continues to lower its breakeven and diversify its product offering beyond Wallboard as operating expenses and restructuring decreased by $2 million and $3 million respectively and non-Wallboard sales contributed an additional $1 million in operating profit.
For all of USG our third quarter incremental operating profit was 44%.
As we have previously stated and discussed it is important to look at incremental operating profit over a multi-quarter time frame due to fluctuations on a seasonal basis.
And since the start of 2012 our incremental operating margins have averaged about 60% above our historical incremental margins of 30% to 50% for the first few years following a recession.
As we've been doing we will continue to take the steps needed to lower our breakeven while investing in growth opportunities and anticipate fluctuations in our future operating margins especially as we get further into the recovery.
Our cash and liquidity positions have improved since a year ago.
Capital expenditures remain on plan as of September 30 of this year and we had liquidity of around $873 million including $590 million of cash and cash equivalents.
As we discussed in our USG-Boral joint venture announcement last week we expect to use about $150 million of our on-hand cash as well as long-term debt of about $350 million to fund the purchase of our 50% share of the new joint venture.
Considering this use of cash I believe that we have adequate liquidity and our position remains strong for this point in the cycle.
I'd like to conclude by saying that this is really an exciting time for USG.
We are strategically investing in the business to drive growth but I want to assure you that we remain committed to controlling our costs delevering the balance sheet and delivering an appropriate return on invested capital to our shareholders.
Jim I'll turn it back to you.
Thank you Matt.
What I'd like to do is review some of the things that we're seeing in the market and the segments for this year and beyond.
In the residential market we have seen some softening in housing starts which appears to be largely associated with rising interest rates and the U.S.
government fiscal issues.
Builder confidence as measured by NAHB slipped 2 points in October but still remains above 50 indicating there's still optimism in the residential market.
Although the recovery over the next few years may be modest we believe there's still a pent-up demand for housing.
As you look at household formation both birth rates and immigration remained positive and the economy is coming off of historically low levels of starts.
For 2013 we're projecting approximately 900 000 starts but we feel next year in 2014 we'll improve slightly.
We expect that over the long term housing starts will begin to approach the historical averages of 1.4 million to 1.5 million starts.
The Residential Repair and Remodel is showing signs of strengthening.
Both the pace and value of existing home sales continues to increase resulting in homeowners adding almost $2.7 trillion of paper net worth since the fourth quarter of 2011.
And the trend in consumer confidence continues to be positive.
These are important factors that are giving the homebuyers and homeowners the confidence to invest in household repairs which we typically see an investment in Repair and Remodel in the first 24 months after purchasing.
At USG we're well positioned to benefit from this growth in the segment because of our strong partnership we have with our customers with large national and big-box retailers.
In the commercial R&amp;R segment we're also seeing more strengthening.
The average age of a commercial building in the United States is in excess of 40 years old and typically requires repair and upgrades in order to remain functional within building codes and attractive to tenants.
The demand for commercial R&amp;R benefits all of our businesses particularly our Ceilings business and L&amp;W Supply.
We believe that this segment will continue to perform well as confidence in the economy improves and employment recovers.
If you look at total Repair and Remodel it represents approximately 50% of our business and we expect growth in the mid- to upper-single digits in 2013 with improvement in 2014 as well.
In the commercial segment as we mentioned earlier we continue to see volatility.
The ABI or the Architecture Billings Index which typically precedes commercial starts by about 9 to 12 months has been above 50 in 12 of the last 13 months.
However our products typically lag a commercial start anywhere from 12 to 18 months.
In contrast to the positive trend by ABI current projections show that commercial and industrial sectors are up but institutional and government is lagging.
While we're seeing some green shoots in commercial construction we still believe that there's going to be continued choppiness and this will persist probably until mid next year.
Through all of 2013 we're anticipating commercial growth to be in the very low single-digits.
We recognize that there are some headwinds but we believe that the U.S.
economic recovery is real and the overall demand in 2014 will be stronger than this year in all of our end-use markets.
So with that I'd like to open it up the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] First call comes from Bob Wetenhall.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to see -- in the Ceilings business modest top line growth I was looking for a little bit more profitability.
You had mentioned kind of choppy volumes.
I was wondering if there's any transitory or onetime charges that are impacting profitability in Ceilings? Yes Bob on the Ceilings business we're continuing to feel really good about it.
But if you look on a year-on-year basis we have a couple of things.
You had an environmental charge in the quarter and as Matt indicated we had some start-up costs that show up in the Ceilings segment.
So you put those numbers in there actually we perform better year-on-year.
Now if you look at sequentially from the quarter basically it was a volume impact on our high-end Ceilings and I think that's indicative of what's happening in the overall commercial business.
Our commodity ceiling tile volume quarter-on-quarter was up slightly and I think that's our big-box retailers that have done a nice job.
But I think the high end quarter-on-quarter slipped because of the commercial demand.
So we still feel very confident with the business.
And as you know this business has really been a tried-and-true part of the segments all through this downturn.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I could sneak a follow-up there.
Congratulations on the JV with Boral.
It's a very exciting development.
Could you give us the context just talking about from an implementation standpoint how you see it unfolding and kind of what the glide path is to capture some of the synergies you mentioned after your conference call where you announced the acquisition? Thanks Bob.
As I said we're very excited about our JV with USG-Boral.
It gives us as I said immediate access to the world's fastest-growing markets.
They have a manufacturing footprint 24 wallboard lines.
We will be contributing our own mine lines.
We have 25 wallboard line footprint.
Along with that they have a market share in excess of 40% so we are moving into a business that is a profitable business.
And we think with our technology we can really take it to the next level.
We're looking at the glide path Bob on your specific question we are going to be going in as a technical partner right off the bat.
We feel once we start getting the synergies there's about $50 million there.
And really it's broken into 3 areas.
If you look at the $50 million most of it is product adjacencies.
We have some cost reductions about 35% that is cost reductions which is both manufacturing costs and we think we have some opportunities on freight as well.
And we also think there's also some cost areas that we can focus on.
So you are not going to see right out of the gate we have a very short window.
We've put together a plan in the next 12 to 48 months.
It's -- as I said earlier it's immediately accretive.
You'll see the net impact to our earnings next year of anywhere from $7 million to $12 million.
And we're going to really focus on implementing our technology.
We're going to be putting basic technology in first and then we will be following up with technology that will be implementing our lightweight portfolio in very specific markets.
This JV operates in 12 countries across Asia Australasia and the Middle East and it is putting 6.8 billion feet of plasterboard capacity that will be accountable for.
So we're extremely excited.
We're going to have our Ceilings business that would be part of this.
Our joint treatment business we think we can grow the market share on joint treatment there with our technology.
So I think the adjacencies are going to be a nice part of those synergies as well.
So very excited.
Our time frame is going to be very fast.
We're very focused on getting this implemented once the deal closes.
And we're projecting that the deal will be closing the last part of January.
So I think this will be a wonderful part of diversifying the earnings and we're really excited to continue to share the results with you in future calls.
Next call is from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Yes you had some pretty nice incremental margins even I guess in the Ceilings business if you adjust for the environmental.
I guess my question first it would be I guess on those environmental charges could we expect those to continue for a period of time? If you could give us any color on that.
And then in your distribution business now that that -- you're starting to get that really back on track what kind of incrementals do you think we should be looking for for that business on a going forward basis? Steven it's Matt Hilzinger why don't I address the environmental.
So we had a charge in the second quarter.
We had another charge on a different property this quarter.
These go back to properties that we no longer own and operate.
They go back for decades.
And these are things that we thought we had fully remediated and in fact we had even gotten some certifications that they had been remediated.
But environmental laws changed and sometimes you have to go through and get them back to the proper state.
So these certain things that go back decades.
Obviously we're disappointed but we need to do the right thing for the environment.
As to whether there's anymore out there look we've been in the business for 111 years.
There are obviously properties out there that we'll continue to watch and monitor.
We go through and take a look at our environmental reserves every quarter and feel that they're appropriate and adequate but it doesn't mean that there is not stuff out there that will pop up again whether it's next year or the year after it could very well happen.
But there's not anything that we know of right now.
Jim you want to take the one on L&amp;W? Yes.
Thank you Matt.
The question on incremental L&amp;W just a couple of comments on L&amp;W.
As we've talked in previous calls we have really reinvented L&amp;W with a focus on the 7 core product areas.
L&amp;W is just -- they're not just a Wallboard specialty dealer.
Our 7 core categories are very important.
And just a fact on that if you look at the second quarter to the third quarter the improvement that you saw in L&amp;W almost 2/3 of that improvement were non-wallboard products.
So it's a focus on insulation on construction steel on ceiling tile on grid on exterior systems.
So that is a really important component as we come out of this depression that we're on in the commercial side of the business.
We're also continuing as Matt said is to focus on reducing overhead both branch and corporate overhead at L&amp;W and being extremely efficient there.
On the incrementals now let me give you a little historical.
The mid-cycle margins of L&amp;W were around 5% with the peak around 9.5%.
So without giving any real projections we would expect once the commercial market starts getting some traction and we're still probably 24 to 36 months away from any real traction on commercial those are kind of the historic margins we're looking at.
We've taken a lot of costs out of the system.
L&amp;W does not play up that much in the residential side.
They don't play in the big-box retailing side.
So really with 75% focused on commercial and commercial R&amp;R we still need some wind on our back from a demand standpoint.
So just in your model you thinking mid-cycle historic had been around 5% peak has been about 9.5% and we've taken out more cost here as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's really encouraging.
I guess last question I had relates to your corporate expense.
We saw the corporate expense move up this quarter.
Was that due to the rebranding efforts that happened this quarter? And again is that a run rate -- should we be expecting a run rate lower than that going forward? If you can just give us a little bit of help there? Yes Stephen it's Matt Hilzinger again.
So it was a combination of a couple of things.
It was some marketing expense.
It was also some additional IT expense.
We've been making a number of investments that are really kind of focused on building customer connections.
So we put in the new brand that's part of it.
We also updated and redid our website if you go take a look at our website and USG answers for our customers.
So we've done some things IT-wise that have added to SG&amp;A and then we've spent a little bit of additional marketing dollars.
Jim referenced Mold Tough and broadening the UltraLight platform.
We also had some additional marketing expense on like SECUROCK for our roofboard and our Floor Prep.
So there's things that we're -- we're growing the business and we're making some incremental investments.
So part of it is run rate and part of it is onetime.
Total expenses were up quarter-on-quarter about $5 million.
I think it's too hard to kind of go through and tell you what's exactly what's run rate and what's not I think it really depends upon the growth opportunities that we have next year.
But that's really what's driving it.
It's things that are connected to really growing our customers business.
And just to add on the IT.
We have not invested in some of the IT and particularly the back-office IT in 6 or 7 years because of the recession we were in.
So some of the IT expenses that Matt is talking about not only were important for our customers but we also had to do it from a back-office standpoint so we can continue to focus on lowering our breakeven.
So on some IT expenses that'll be an upfront IT expense but we feel that there will be some lower costs going forward because of the efficiencies and not having as many hands touch paper.
If I could also just remind the callers I really appreciate the interest but we have quite a few folks in queue.
So if we can keep it to one question.
I know we've done great on a couple of the follow-ups gentlemen but I'm just looking at the board here we're trying to get everyone we can.
So if you could do that I would really appreciate it.
Next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get a little bit more clarity on the Ceilings business if possible and the 2% decline in USG Interiors if that -- if you have any sense in terms of which end markets were softer than others and if you were -- and some of that choppiness if you'd expect to continue.
And before I get caught I just need a technical clarification if possible.
The environmental charge in Ceilings if you could tell us if that was in the USG Interiors segment and similarly the ARO adjustment in North American Gypsum which line item that was in.
Well Michael I think that counts as 2.
We'll work that into one.
Let me just talk about the Ceilings business and then I'll turn it over to Matt to talk about the environmental.
Really the Ceilings business it's demand.
If you look at year-on-year you have the environmental in some of the startup and you put that in year-on-year we comped nicely.
If you look at quarter-on-quarter which I look at more of the sequential it's still very weak demand particularly if you look at our commodity tile which is our -- more of our bread-and-butter tile the units were up sequentially.
But our higher-end higher-margin tile quarter-on-quarter was down.
And that's primarily on opportunity particularly office opportunity.
But we're seeing education and governmental down.
So those are really the key drivers.
If you look at the commercial business under the commercial segment you go through -- retail is up which is a fairly large footage segment.
So retail is up.
But you have -- education is down and so basically counterbalances what retail is up.
Offices on the up single-digits and you go down and look at health care health care is down probably low single-digits and government is down double-digits.
So it's -- what we see is there's nothing inherent that we're concerned about.
We're still just in a choppy commercial market.
And if you look at just the building starts commercially with the lag I mean we're coming off of 2010 and 2011 as some pretty pathetic opportunity numbers.
So I don't think this is anything to be concerned about.
We are investing as I've said in my prepared comments in Cloquet and the reason we're investing in Cloquet is our high-end products we've been sold out.
We've been running that capacity at the high-end high-margin products.
And we're investing in Cloquet to add some capacity and lower costs.
So that investment we've looked at really carefully and that gives us some confidence that we think the next couple of years is going to be very good for the Ceilings business.
And Jim let me just provide a little clarity on the ARO and the environmental.
They're both in cost of goods sold.
The ARO I'd just remind everybody -- our adjustments we made in the third quarter this year it was a credit.
Last year we had charge in the fourth quarter.
So if you go back and take a look and as you do in your models and stuff in the fourth quarter we had a charge last year.
So I hope that's helpful.
Next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie.
In terms of L&amp;W Supply how much of the profit improvement are you seeing to date? And I guess also the ramp back up to those normalized profit levels will it be dependent on fixed cost leverage versus the products spread that you get from changing that markup in different demand cycles? That's a great question.
It's going to take both.
It's not only margin expansion.
As Matt said L&amp;W has been proactively getting margin improvement early in Wallboard but there are other products because of their value.
They have a very specific customer segmentation program where they look at customers they can grow with in share of wallet along with that is lowering the fixed cost.
Delivery costs are variable.
So your delivery cost is going to increase as your volume increases.
But we're very focused back to my previous comment on IT.
It's investing in some IT that we're doing here that a lot of the things we're doing in L&amp;W you will reduce our fixed costs.
So it's both of those but along with that it's really important that we start seeing some consistent demand on the commercial side.
It's a velocity business and getting throughput from the standpoint of the commercial side is really important.
So lowering your fixed improving your spreads and not just selling Wallboard.
The margins on those non-wallboard products are very consistent over the cycle and are at nice levels.
So it's really selling more than just Wallboard.
And then along with that is continuing to lower your breakeven.
So it's each one of those components that are very important for the glide path with L&amp;W.
And Jim I would add to that.
We just to reference back to some of the leverage points that we talked about you may recall last quarter we talked about L&amp;W sales.
They -- back in 2008 they made about $1 million on $500 million of sales.
They're making about the same amount of money on $300 million of sales.
So that just shows you the power the leverage that that team has done in terms of taking out costs and lowering their breakeven.
Next question comes from Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> How should we handicap the outlook for 2014 from a demand standpoint? It sounds like you're seeing a pickup at R&amp;R but you're generally more cautious on new construction next year you're not expecting much growth.
So can you help us get a sense to what top line will look like in '14? Well we're -- if you look at overall demand the R&amp;R you're right is the most robust segment so -- and that positions us well because of our footprint in that with our customers there.
Commercial we're still low single-digit.
It's still choppiness.
So we aren't optimistic.
As I've said we really don't see anything commercially taking any type of traction until maybe mid next year if not later.
Housing everyone handicaps that and we're around 900 000 for this year slightly higher for next year.
I mean you aren't looking.
And I just want to clarify so historical it's been 1.4 to 1.5.
We aren't anywhere near those numbers.
So slightly better than 900 000.
And then Repair and Remodel we're looking at mid to high single-digits.
So there will be lift.
There will be lift in demand which is good.
So this will be the third year in lifting demand.
But just to put in perspective the industry is going to shift approximately 20 billion to 21 billion feet this year that's even with an increase of next year which is good.
Capacity utilization is still -- in some areas still very low and we have a lot of work to do from a demand standpoint.
So we're still at some historical low levels but there is some wind in our back so it's better than where we've been 3 years ago.
So nothing real robust.
It's going to be a slow glide path and quite frankly that isn't bad because you don't have the big sharp peaks and troughs and we think a U recovery is positive for us.
Research Division</strong> Does that R&amp;R pickup have a positive impact on margins or mix? Depends what segment.
Commercial R&amp;R helps L&amp;W and Ceilings more where residential R&amp;R will help U.S.
Gypsum business.
Next question comes from Dan Oppenheim from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you can just talk a little bit more in terms of the thoughts on the JV knowing you won't be closing until the end of January.
But just as you think going forward certainly it's a great way of using your technology and then not putting too much capital.
And in terms of having the expansion there as you think about further activity do you think this would be a way to expand to other geographies as well? Would that be done on the USG side or through the JV? Thank you.
The -- what we're looking on the JV as I've said we're very optimistic but we have some work to do over the next 24 months.
From a capital standpoint we think the JV will be probably using about $50 million in capital to do this.
So it's not -- when you're looking at 24 25 plants that's not a lot of capital.
The markets that the JV will be operating in are the high-growth markets.
You're looking at Thailand Korea Indonesia Malaysia Singapore India as I indicated earlier.
And these are the strategic markets that the JV is going to be operating in.
We aren't looking to move the JV in those other areas there's enough growth here.
And the adoption rate we have 6.8 billion feet of capacity which the capacity in that area is running about 60% capacity utilization.
We feel with our technology we can put in some pretty minor adjustments and get some nice speed up of the line which those incrementals really will fall at the bottom line.
But I think really the interesting part of this JV is they've gone to market with basically just a plasterboard portfolio.
We are now going to market with -- and plasterboard is what they refer to it in that part of the world.
Now we're going to market with plasterboard wallboard ceiling tile and grid joint compound SECUROCK Durock the entire portfolio.
And we are bringing to the JV the way we go to market in North America.
If you look at just our joint treatment market shares in North America compared to our wallboard market shares in most markets our joint compound market share is in excess of where our Wallboard share is.
That is not the case in that part of the world.
So the joint compound opportunity is very very exciting for us as well.
So the next 36 months is going to be get our technology in get -- do the basic policy put UltraLight in some key strategic markets go to market as a full product provider.
They have a very vast sales and marketing network right now we're integrating that with our Asia Pacific network.
We have a great core in Oman that's going to help lower costs.
And that investment we made in Oman last year is a really key strategic part of this joint venture.
So we're very excited.
We have a lot of work to do.
But if you look in the next 5 years the adoption rate of plasterboard is growing.
Outside of India and China there are 500 million people in that region.
And high-rise construction is very important.
And Western construction practices are very prevalent.
So what the USG brand and our background in technology really help the footprint of Boral and they're a fine company.
They're a name brand in Australia.
And they -- this is a wonderful partnership that we're extremely excited about and I believe it's going to reap benefits for our shareholders as we get into the future.
If I could just add a couple of things.
Just on the $50 million of capital we do expect the JV to be self-funding and we expect it to be cash flow positive over the planning horizon as well.
So net-net we feel very good about what that's going for us both from a capital standpoint and a P&amp;L standpoint.
The other thing Jim touched on which I think is important for everybody to know is dampening our cyclicality.
We've done some analysis.
We did a ton of analysis before we did the deal around that.
And if you look back historically over the last 10 years and you take BGA which is their Asian operation you kind of match it with ours over the last 10 years it -- the emphasis on the volatility of our earnings by up to 15%.
So I'd say 10% to 15%.
That's pretty powerful when you think about what it's really doing for us.
So I think there's more opportunities as Jim said when we've grown the business to add that in at an even a greater impact.
So we're really happy on those 2 fronts as well.
Next question comes from Kathryn Thompson from Thompson Research.
LLC</strong> This is Wenjun sitting in for Kathryn.
Just one question on the non-res market.
Our numerous industry contacts have reported tangible improvement in volumes this late summer.
Knowing that L&amp;W has greater non-res focus could you give more granularity on end market trends that you see through your distribution business? You mentioned that government and education sector remains weak but if you could give more information on whether -- why other non-res segment you have seen is working and not working today versus 9 to 12 months ago? Sure.
If you break the non-res down the numbers that we're looking at retail the retail segment which is a fairly substantial segment of non-res is projected to be up double-digits 10% to 15%.
Office is 6%.
So positive there.
Hotel which is a smaller segment it's about half the size of the office segment is projected to be 10% to 15%.
Education which is about the size of retail is down mid single-digits.
So that's kind of dampening the retail improvement.
Health care is about half the size of education from an opportunity standpoint that's down mid single-digits.
And then government is the biggest downdraft which is down pretty solid double digits anywhere from 15% to 25%.
But what we're also seeing just from an overall macro standpoint construction keeps -- construction payrolls increased in September by 4% which was the strongest month in -- or total construction payroll since February of this year.
But if you break that down into non-residential of the construction payrolls commercial construction payrolls were up almost 10% which was the best increase of construction payrolls in commercial since December of 2007.
So as we step back from this segment there's some good news here and there's some downdrafts here.
So it's -- that's why we continue the comment maybe you're tired of the comment we keep saying it's choppy.
But we feel it's going to be choppy with some good news in the segment but there are some forward-looking green shoots as I said earlier.
What you have to think about in our business whatever positive you see in the commercial business it's still a 12- to 18-month lag.
So I think it's really important that any numbers that you on look on non-res for USG you have to lag those numbers 12 to 18 months.
I hope that helps.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Have you seen the...
We're -- excuse me I don't mean to interrupt but we still have quite a few in queue.
There's a lot of interest today which is wonderful.
So I'm going to ask maybe if we were going to have a follow-up with Ken Banas from our Investor Relations and you'll be more than happy to follow up with him afterwards.
Next question is from Garik Shmois with Longbow Research.
Just wondering Jim you previously indicated your intention to raise wallboard prices in 2014.
But now that you're starting to see a little bit of slowing in the growth in new residential construction how does that impact do you think your ability to go to market with price increases or if that hasn't changed confidence that all in being able to raise price next year? When we look at the total opportunity Garik for next year we still think the overall wallboard opportunity is going to be increased over 2013.
It's not going to be big increases so there's going to continue to be opportunity increases.
Also we're projecting our capacity utilization is going to improve.
If you look at our capacity utilization we're running just below 60%.
And if that compares to the third quarter of 2012 we were running at 50%.
And you go back to 2011 we were at 43%.
We're very optimistic.
We feel that our pricing strategy for our customers has worked.
We intend and we're having conversations with our customers on 2014 now and we're going to have one price for 2014.
We are not going to have job quotes.
And we are having specific conversations with our customers probably in the next month.
And we're still optimistic on 2014 price improvements.
So to answer your question in the short no we have not changed our strategy.
In fact the strategy is working.
And the reason I say that you can see it in the results but more importantly our customers like our strategy.
It's easier for them.
It takes a lot of paperwork costs out for them and they can log their number in at the beginning of the year and they know that's what it is for the year.
So we're optimistic about 2014.
Next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Matt I was hoping -- Matt can you on the joint -- or not really on the joint venture but once the joint venture closes can you just talk about how you'll operate the capital structure at the corporate level on a go-forward basis sort of what the priorities will be how cash flow will be allocated what you think other opportunities would be from sort of a strategic standpoint et cetera? Yes happy to.
First it will be accounted for as an equity investment.
So it will not be consolidated on our balance sheet.
When we look at the joint venture we're targeting 50% distribution in terms of dividends.
We have the ability to bring back that capital to the U.S.
if we want.
But I think what we're really thinking about is we want to grow that business.
And I think a lot of that capital will end up staying in the joint venture at least initially as we continue to grow the business.
So from an overall corporate capital strategy standpoint the long-term debt will be held at the parent company.
And for the most part it will be serviced through cash flows of Worldwide Ceilings L&amp;W and principally North American Gypsum.
So when we've talked in the past about the importance of delevering the balance sheet that is a huge goal of ours.
And as we look out in the future we don't see any issues in terms of our ability to delever the balance sheet as we've discussed before.
So that's going to continue to be a main objective of ours.
And we're just so excited about having this joint venture.
These things don't come along very often and it was something we felt was very important.
And so we found a way to make it work.
We're really happy.
Thank you for all your interest and questions and I apologize we didn't get through the entire queue.
There was a tremendous amount of interest today.
And obviously this is an extremely exciting time for USG.
We've been through quite a few of these calls and we always said we wanted to get to the other side of the small-d depression and we wanted to get here stronger.
And we're continuing to take steps towards delivering on our plan in generating net income which we're delivering now and positive EPS for the third consecutive quarter.
And I couldn't be more pleased to deliver that news to you.
We believe we've been a more resilient and an agile company.
As Matt said this opportunity came along a year or so ago and we worked really hard and really balanced our strategy with our balance sheet and looking ahead.
And I always said what's the company going to look like in the next trough? We now feel we're very well positioned to grow our business.
We're going to invest by keeping the eye on lowering our breakeven but we're going to grow our business not only in North America but now we can do it internationally as we work to maximize all of our shareholders' value.
So I'd like to thank you for joining us today and your interest in USG.
And we look forward to giving you an update on the business next quarter.
Thanks Jim.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Friday November 8.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you and have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's USG Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and 2013 USG Year-End Results Conference Call.
My name is Vanessa and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Ken Banas Treasurer.
You may begin sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings conference call and live webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumptions of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
With me today to discuss our results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter and year plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the quarter and the year for the corporation and the business segments.
We will then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
As always we would like to ensure that everyone has an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Jim? Thank you Ken and good morning.
We appreciate you joining us this morning.
And over the next few minutes I'd like to give you a brief update of our fourth quarter and full year 2013 and then turn to our outlook for 2014.
2013 was truly a foundational year for USG.
I'm extremely proud to report that the company was profitable for the year generating net income for the first time since 2007.
To put it in perspective this was a time when industry demand was 31 billion feet in 2007 compared to 21 billion feet last year.
As we've talked before we've created our own recovery by changing the leverage in our business and our results are evident that our Plan to Win is getting traction.
I believe that our business is well-positioned for growth as we continue to see demand strengthening in each of our markets.
During the fourth quarter all of our businesses generated operating profit with improved results from a year ago.
We also took important steps towards delevering our balance sheet and forming a very important joint venture and with that we had approximately $24 million of costs on these transactions.
While these actions did have an adverse impact on the quarter they better position our company over the long-term.
Now I'd like to review our business segments.
In our North American business North American Gypsum business we had a very strong quarter.
We generated $58 million more in operating profit compared to last year.
The primary drivers continue to be wallboard price volume and with price increasing 17% and volume improving by 13% year-on-year.
In fact our quarterly wallboard volume was the highest it's been since the fourth quarter of 2008.
North American Gypsum also saw strong growth in our substrates businesses led by Durock with sales increasing 18% and improved profits of 35% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
In our worldwide Ceilings business we had a record fourth quarter.
Our performance was driven by improved margins in both pile and grid as well as strong volume with our grid products.
Our Ceilings business continues to perform well despite the choppiness that we've talked about the last few quarters in the commercial market.
And while I'm very pleased with the fourth quarter performance some of that improvement is related to timing of some certain large jobs that shipped during the quarter.
We believe that this may have an impact on the first quarter but our Ceilings business continues to remain very strong.
In Building Products Distribution segment L&amp;W continues to make progress recording $4 million in operating profit during the fourth quarter an improvement of $14 million versus last year.
Improved margins in volume and wallboard were the key drivers but we're also seeing improvements in other core products that led to a 12% comp store improvement.
Additionally at L&amp;W we had a reduction in our bad debt reserve due to better collections and an improvement in the credit quality of our commercial customers.
Executing our Plan to Win continues to drive our results and I'm confident that we have the right strategy to realize our long-term initiatives.
Our strategy as reviewed with you in the past is comprehensive but I'd like to say it's very concise: Strengthen the core which is improving our results in our North American manufacturing and distribution businesses; diversifying our earnings through geographic extensions and product adjacencies; and differentiating through innovation.
Strengthen diversify and differentiate is our strategy.
Our commitment to strengthening the core is evident in our North American Gypsum and L&amp;W performances.
In 2013 our full year North American Gypsum revenues were comparable to 2008 but our operating profit improved by $500 million.
Through these changes to our wallboard pricing policies effective cost controls growth in our surfaces and substrates businesses and innovative products we have substantially improved the operating leverage of our North American manufacturing business.
We are very well-positioned now to capitalize on the growing demand in all segments Commercial Residential and Repair and Remodel throughout North America.
L&amp;W generated a full year of positive operating profit for the first time in 6 years and did so with $1 billion less in revenue and 100 fewer branches than we had in 2007.
Let me repeat that.
We did it with $1 billion less in revenue and 100 fewer branches.
We have fundamentally changed L&amp;W.
While maintaining our position as the nation's largest specialty dealer we refocused our energy on the commercial channel as we've talked about in the past where we feel adds more value and we have fewer competitors.
We've optimized our branch network and we have been committed to the relentless pursuit of profitable business at L&amp;W.
L&amp;W remains a strategic part of our portfolio because of its nationwide footprint for new product launches supporting the USG growth in price strategies.
And because of their product adjacencies it allows us to really diversify our earnings with approximately half of L&amp;W sales coming from non USG-manufactured products.
Another critical component of strengthening the core is deleveraging our balance sheet.
We took important steps in 2013 including calling $325 million of our convertible securities and improving the funding of our pension plan.
Deleveraging our balance sheet continues to be a top priority and we will evaluate every opportunity to organically pay down debt in 2014.
The second pillar of our plan is to diversify earnings.
And we took a big step forward in 2013 with the announcement of our joint venture with Boral Limited in Asia Australasia and the Middle East.
By bringing together Boral's leading market share and footprint with our world-leading technology we have truly created critical mass for our business outside of North America.
We're very excited about the USG-Boral joint venture not only because it is immediately accretive but it also should soften some of the cyclicality in our business.
To put it in perspective the trading areas of Boral to 12 countries the opportunity right now is 24 billion feet of wallboard demand which is equivalent to what we're seeing in the United States.
So think of it as a United States market has just attached to our portfolio.
However let me assure you that we are not taking our eye off the ball in the recovering North American market as we execute this joint venture.
And while this joint venture has been slightly delayed due to one New Zealand final regulatory approval the USG-Boral teams are working well together in some areas and I'm very pleased with the early technology exchange.
Differentiating through innovation is our third pillar of our strategy.
We've had a long legacy of leading the industry in product innovation and operational excellence.
And our product innovations create competitive advantages and truly differentiate us in the marketplace and most importantly help our customers win.
We continue to focus on developing high-performance systems that drive energy efficiency sustainability and speed of construction to the benefit of our customers.
At USG we're proud of our culture and our track record of innovation.
And differentiating through innovation remains a core component of our Plan to Win.
Now I'd like to provide and turn it over to Matt who's going to talk about our financial results from the quarter and from 2013.
Matt? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
As Jim said I'll recap our full year and fourth quarter results as well as provide some detail into each of our businesses and some of what we're expecting in 2014.
For our full year 2013 our revenue was $3.6 billion an increase of 11% compared to 2012 and we generated full year GAAP net income of $47 million compared with a GAAP net loss of $126 million in 2012.
Our full year fiscal 2013 adjusted net income was $73 million about a $200 million improvement over last year and the first time since 2007 that we had net income for a full year.
Looking at the fourth quarter total revenue was $915 million an increase of 12% compared to a year ago and while we generated a GAAP net loss of $3 million during the fourth quarter adjusted net income was $22 million with the largest adjustment of $16 million for a special noncash pension settlement charge related to early payouts of certain vested retirees.
In addition to improving our adjusted net income by $74 million over the prior fourth quarter we also took actions to further delever our balance sheet which I'll discuss in a few minutes.
Turning to our segment results.
Net sales for North American Gypsum increased by 16% to $590 million during the fourth quarter and operating profit was $75 million compared to $17 million during the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our fourth quarter U.S.
wallboard shipments of 1.38 billion square feet were up 13% from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our average sales price during the fourth quarter of 2013 was $155 per 1 000 square feet compared to $132 during the fourth quarter of 2012.
The biggest contributors to our year-over-year segment improvement in the fourth quarter were: wallboard margin at $30 million; Wallboard volume at $7 million our shipping business GTL at $5 million; and mining for which we had a $9 million asset impairment charge last year.
For 2014 we anticipate that total contributions from GTL will be about $20 million similar to its earnings in 2013.
We also expect that at least 60% of its earnings will be recognized in the second half of the year and the majority of that recognized in the fourth quarter due to how we account for the shipping revenue.
We also anticipate that the results from our mining operations will be flat year-over-year.
In our Worldwide Ceilings segment we had a strong fourth quarter generating $154 million in revenue a 9% increase over last year and $19 million in operating profit compared to $14 million in 2012.
Ceiling tile and grid margins contributed $6 million and volume contributed $2 million on a year-over-year basis.
While we are very pleased with the results we do not see as much of the normal seasonal drop during the fourth quarter due to the timing of certain job-related shipments.
As a result of the strong fourth quarter and the cold and snowy weather in January we expect a smaller seasonal pickup than we would normally see in our first quarter.
We do however expect that the combined results for the fourth and first quarters will be about the same as what we saw last year.
At L&amp;W supply we recorded our third consecutive quarter of positive operating profit earning $4 million on $314 million in revenues an increase of $14 million in operating profit on $32 million in incremental sales compared to 2012.
Wallboard was the biggest driver contributing $7 million to our year-over-year improvement but we also saw gains in ceilings insulation and other products that improved results by $4 million.
Additionally about $5 million of the year-over-year improvement was due to a reduction in our bad debt reserve which is a result of improved customer balance sheets and better collections.
Now I'd like to shift to SG&amp;A spending.
For all of 2013 SG&amp;A was $320 million compared to $304 million last year.
In the fourth quarter of 2013 SG&amp;A expenses were $91 million which includes about $5 million of the special pension settlement charge mentioned earlier.
This compares to $80 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
As I discussed last year we expected SG&amp;A to be higher in the fourth quarter as we made some customer-focused investments in IT and product packaging enhancements to comply with new regulations coupled with an investment in our new brand and Olympic sponsorship to raise our international visibility.
For 2014 we expect SG&amp;A to be in the $330 million to $340 million range with 1/3 of the year-over-year increase due to inflation.
The remaining spend is related to our ongoing investments around our customers focused on IT product branding R&amp;D and targeted growth initiatives.
Even with this year-over-year increase our SG&amp;A expense to revenue ratio will remain below our 20-year average.
Turning to taxes.
For all of 2013 our tax expense was $11 million compared to $12 million in 2012.
For 2014 we expect our total tax expense and cash taxes to fall in the range of $14 million to $20 million.
This includes a potential special onetime tax payment of $8 million to $10 million in the first quarter related to the value of our technology license to the USG-Boral joint venture.
I expect the balance of our taxes which are primarily attributed to foreign earnings to be spread evenly throughout the year.
As a reminder we do not expect to pay any U.S.
federal income taxes in 2014 as we continue to utilize our $2.1 billion net operating loss carryforward.
Also I do not expect that our valuation allowance of almost $1 billion to reverse in 2014 so I do not anticipate recognizing the deferred tax asset on our balance sheet this year.
Turning to product input costs for 2014.
We anticipate inflation in the low single-digit range across all of our products with the principal drivers being paper gas and wages.
With respect to natural gas we're about 70% hedged at this point and we may increase this up to 90% based on how the forward curve moves after the recent cold spell across the country.
We are primarily hedged using collars with the mid-range of those collars about 5% above our 2013 average cost of $3.70 per decatherm.
To give perspective natural gas represents about 15% of our input cost to manufacture wallboard and every change of $1 per decatherm represents about $2.25 change in our wallboard costs.
Looking at capital expenditures.
In 2013 we had $124 million of normal CapEx plus $22 million of funding for Oman India and our joint ventures.
This came in slightly below our projection but we expect that some of this CapEx will carry over into 2014.
So for 2014 we anticipate total CapEx to be around $145 million.
Of that $135 million is expected to be spent as part of the normal course of our business and $10 million is related to finalizing our wallboard facility in Oman.
With respect to our new USG-Boral joint venture I want to remind you that as I said in October we expect net earnings to be between $35 million and $45 million on an annual basis in 2014 before adjusting for foreign exchange.
Please note that my projection was for a full 12 months and actual results for 2014 will be lower due to the projected closing on February 28.
Also given the 50-50 structure of the joint venture it will be reported as an equity method investment but we intend to provide additional details about revenues operating profits and depreciation and amortization when we announce our future results.
As I have previously stated I firmly expect that all future capital expenditures related to our joint venture will be self-funded by the joint venture.
Shifting to liquidity.
As of December 31 2013 we had total liquidity of $1.27 billion compared with total liquidity of $874 million as of December 31 2012.
Our 2013 number includes the $350 million in debt that we raised for our joint venture with Boral and we expect our liquidity to drop by over $500 million due to the expected February 28 funding of our cash payment to Boral.
Based on where we are in the cycle I believe that we have adequate liquidity in an improving demand environment.
As we look at 2014 I expect that consistent with prior years we'll use more cash in the first half of the year compared to the second half due to rebate and incentive payments and normal business requirements as well as the closing of our USG-Boral joint venture this year.
Lastly I want to talk about our debt levels and our absolute commitment to organically delevering the balance sheet.
As of yearend 2013 our total debt plus pension and other post-retirement benefits was $2.6 billion which compares to $2.9 billion at the end of 2012.
We took 2 very important steps towards delevering our balance sheet and optimizing our capital structure in 2013.
First in December we called $325 million of our $400 million convertible securities which were quickly converted into equity reducing our interest burden by approximately $34 million per year.
Second we made considerable progress in improving the funding of our pension plan which I consider debt.
Our unfunded pension liability was reduced from about $400 million a year ago to roughly $115 million at December 2013 a $285 million improvement in the funding of our pension.
We did this in part through continued contributions strong investment performance and rising interest rates.
We contributed approximately $60 million in 2013 and we are now funded at about 92% on a PBO basis.
In the fourth quarter we also took steps to reduce the overall pension liability by offering a special onetime lump sum payment to vested retirees.
In doing this we reduced the overall pension obligation by $80 million which will help dampen its overall volatility and reduce annual pension costs by $2 million to $3 million per year going forward.
We also issued $350 million in senior notes during the year that we will use to fund a portion of our cash payment to Boral.
However in doing so we will acquire an accretive asset that we believe will ultimately help us delever the company and reach investment-grade metrics more rapidly with the inclusion of another source of earnings.
As we look into 2014 we'll continue to take steps to delever the balance sheet.
First is the maturation of the $59 million bullet debt due in August of this year which we plan to retire with cash on the balance sheet.
This will contribute to reduced future interest costs and it is our expectation that our 2014 interest payments will total approximately $183 million $12 million better than last year.
Second we expect to contribute another $60 million to the pension plan with cash from operations to improve its funded status.
We expect our pension expense to be around $40 million to $45 million this year.
And as we are getting more funded we are also taking steps to implement a liability-driven investment plan or LDI for short to reduce volatility and better immunize our plan against interest rates.
I expect that the gap in our unfunded liability will continue to close as we make our annual contribution and as interest rates continue to rise.
And lastly we will continue to evaluate opportunities to reduce our leverage by calling our remaining $75 million of convertible securities as soon as we prudently can.
As we look to 2014 I want to stress that we remain focused and committed to further delevering our balance sheet and taking additional steps towards reaching our target leverage ratio of 1.5 to 2x debt-to-EBITDA.
Delevering is a top strategic priority and we will continue to evaluate every opportunity to organically pay down debt.
On one very final note we intend to file our 10-K by its due date of March 3 in conjunction with the closing of our joint venture with Boral.
As a result our filing will be a few weeks later than we normally file.
With that I'd like to the turn it back to Jim.
Thank you Matt.
What I'd like to do over the next couple of minutes is share our thoughts about the market in 2013 but more importantly our outlook for 2014.
As everyone probably knows in 2013 housing starts came in around 920 000 which was slightly better than what we projected.
This does represent the fourth consecutive year of positive growth in residential.
But housing still remains well below the long-term average of 1.4 million to 1.5 million starts.
For this year in 2014 Blue Chip consensus calls for about 1.1 million starts but we continue to be more conservative and are forecasting slightly below that number.
We do believe though that housing recovery is underway and many of the major metropolitan markets for example Florida and California that were really depressed are improving and we're going to continue to see that improvement throughout 2014.
In the Commercial business we saw low single-digit growth last year and as we move into 2014 there are some positive signs but we're still seeing mixed reviews.
The architectural billing index has been positive 14 of the past 17 months but we have recently seen some softening.
We are hearing from our customers that backlogs are generally getting stronger but there is still inconsistency from market to market.
While we believe the commercial recovery has started but due to the timing of when our product shipped we expect we will continue to see fluctuations in our commercial businesses throughout this year and with a more robust recovery in 2015.
Thus for 2014 our forecast calls for commercial growth still in the mid-single digit range primarily picking up in the back half of this year.
In 2013 our repair and remodel business represented about half of our total sales and we saw an improvement of about 7% in that business.
Looking to 2014 we expect repair and remodel to continue to be a major driver in our business and is going to grow in the mid-single digit range similar to what it did in 2013.
We have the right channel customer partners and the macroeconomic factors indicate favorable demand environment with unemployment declining consumer confidence strengthening the rising of home prices and on the commercial side we're seeing office vacancy rates improving.
We are very optimistic about 2014 and we believe our business is poised to capitalize on the growth in each one of our end-use markets.
We believe that the improving conditions are very durable and that we have built upon the foundation over the last few years and we are positioned to grow the USG of the future.
So what I'd like to do now is turn it over to you and we'd be happy to answer any questions you may have over the next 30 minutes.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just follow up though on your comments about the Ceilings business if you didn't mind.
I think you had said that there were some shipments that sort of benefited the fourth quarter and you thought that there may be a little bit of an adjustment as a result in the first quarter in the negative direction.
I just wanted to see if you could quantify that a little bit? And also maybe put a little bit more color around your comment about how you thought I think fourth and first quarter together would be about the same and I just wanted to make sure I got that right? Sure Stephen.
And thank you for comments.
Our fourth quarter was better than we expected.
We had some jobs that shipped early.
We also -- we have some price increases in our Ceilings business positioned for early February.
So there was -- some customers did pull some shipments into December for that as well.
I think the best metric is really looking as Matt indicated the fourth and first quarter of last year.
If you look at our Ceilings business we typically have a pretty big seasonal drop in the fourth quarter.
We didn't see as much of that this year versus last fourth quarter and the first quarter of last year it bounced back.
So I think the best -- it's not going to be dramatic in the first quarter.
It's just -- we're just trying to manage expectations.
Along with that the weather is not helping us in any of our businesses.
So I would just -- if you look at the seasonality that we had last year we were a little stronger in the fourth quarter which means we think we'll be a little weaker in the first quarter of this year.
And our next question comes from Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
My question is around L&amp;W.
So the margin in L&amp;W showed some really nice improvement during the quarter.
And I was hoping you could maybe go into a little detail to discuss some of the drivers there and how you're thinking about that business going into 2014 and if the current level of profitability is sustainable going into 2014 or if you think there's room for continued margin expansion from here? Yes if you look at L&amp;W's business it was really -- it was driven by the Wallboard business.
Comp store sales were up as I said about 12% total but Wallboard margins they had margin expansion in the quarter which was very very positive.
They also grew their business in the quarter as well.
But the complementary products really were a big driver.
Each one of the areas of complementary products that would be steel insulation ceiling tile grid fasteners all had nice growth in the quarter which is starting to get some traction on our focus on the Commercial segment.
So we're very pleased with having a profitable year.
We still have work to do.
The ROIC is still below what we have set for the business.
But we do expect continued progress at L&amp;W.
We've taken out as I indicated 100 branches.
We've optimized the network and right now it's continuing to grow the business.
From a margin standpoint a profitable business.
We're very focused on the commercial contractor.
One of the things you need to keep in mind is that my comments on the Commercial segment L&amp;W about 2/3 of their business is focused on commercial.
So until you start seeing some really good traction in commercial that will really help the velocity of L&amp;W which we indicated is probably the back half of the year.
So we're pleased where we are now.
We made money.
We have a lot of work to do and I think 2014 will be better than what you saw last year.
And our next question comes from Michael Dahl with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about your comments on leverage.
And if you look at the balance sheet here it seems like 1.5 to 2x is still a couple of years out.
So hoping you can speak to first is it your expectation that that will take several years? And second really if you see opportunities to remain aggressive on offense here how willing are you to extend those target levels? Yes Michael this is Matt Hilzinger.
Yes I think it is going to take several years.
I mean you guys all go do your projections.
But if you think about where we are at $2.6 billion of debt and 1.5x leverage that means we probably have to take somewhere around $1.5 billion of debt off.
And clearly that's going to take more than just a year or 2 so -- but it -- as I said and as Jim said it is a strategic priority for us and we think about it every day.
I can tell you I do and Ken Banas thinks about how we can deleverage this balance sheet every day.
And I pointed out some things that we're going to do around just paying down some debt maturities this year.
We're going to be very focused on improving the fundability and the leverage around the pension plan.
We're going to look at every opportunity to call the rest of the convertible securities.
There are -- we have some debt that's due in 2018 that's callable at the end of next year and early 2015.
I think it's way too early to get into whether we would do that but clearly those are some levers out there that we could take a look at I think largely depends upon the performance of the business and we'd like to see the macros continue to improve in the economy.
And I think that will give us an opportunity to continue to deleverage the balance sheet.
And our next question comes from Josh Chan with Baird &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> I just want to get your thoughts about the L&amp;W footprint.
You mentioned that being down 100 locations from the peak.
And just wondering as you see this recovery ahead of you how do you expect to manage the location count and do you think you have sufficient coverage? Yes thank you Josh.
As I said we're down about 100 branches.
One of the key things when we looked at this recovery we wanted to make sure we didn't exit any markets.
And that was very very important for us because we were looking ahead.
So right now with our current network which is about 150 locations we can take care of all the metropolitan markets that we were in before the recession.
And we still have quite a bit of room on additional volume without adding branches.
We added a couple of branches last year in a couple of key areas which were very minor but we do not see any branch expansion in 2014.
You may see 1 or 2 small ones but we feel that we have enough we've really optimized the overall network and we can get more out of our current footprint at this point and handle the additional volume that we're looking at from a demand standpoint.
We think the overall wallboard demand is going to be about 24 billion feet in 2014 up from about 21 billion.
And we still -- we'll be able to do it with our current footprint.
And our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson with Thompson Research.
LLC</strong> This is Wenjun sitting in for Kathryn.
My question is on the current commercial trends.
You talked a little bit about that in your prepared remarks.
In Q4 our industry contact saw some meaningful improvement in non-res activities.
But could you clarify regional trends that you see and how this has changed from early 2013? And separately if you could provide some color on what you're seeing in L&amp;W in terms of types and sizes of projects commercial projects? We're seeing the -- as I said in my prepared comments the Commercial business is still very choppy and a lot of that has to do with regionality.
We're seeing that the Northeast is very very strong in Commercial business.
The Northern California Silicon Valley is extremely strong and the Dallas-Fort Worth Metropolitan area.
So those are really 3 areas from a commercial geographic segment that we're seeing.
If you look at the overall commercial starts it is very segment-oriented.
We're seeing retail and health care being the leaders in those segments as we go forward.
Office is also -- office remodel is also something that we're seeing some positive trends.
The size of jobs your question on L&amp;W the jobs you still aren't seeing the large commercial jobs but we're seeing more of the medium-sized higher-profit jobs which is really good in our wheelhouses as well.
So we still think to really get some traction in the Commercial business we're 6 to 12 months away from some real velocity here but we're much better than we were a year ago.
The last 3 years have been low to single-digit increases but at least the trends are going the right way but still fairly choppy both geographically and from a segment standpoint.
And your next question is from Dennis McGill with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> I guess my question would be on 2014 if your outlook and kind of a general macroeconomic outlook plays out for both res and non-res construction and knowing what you know about your internal pricing strategies and internal costs do you think that leverage expense leverage in margins across the portfolio would actually be on par with what you generated in '13 better than or worse than? Well Dennis I wouldn't be doing a good job if it was on par or worse.
So we're very focused on margin expansion.
I talked about L&amp;W we have a lot of room to go there from a margin standpoint.
We're very pleased.
Our margins are very strong in the Ceilings business.
So maintaining and slightly growing our margins there are very very important.
And as -- on the Gypsum business obviously it's wallboard cost and price we feel that there's price improvement in the market but most importantly we have some headwinds on the cost side.
So we have some very specific cost initiatives through our manufacturing facilities Matt had talked about some of the inflation that we have.
But we have Lean Six Sigma groups all through our manufacturing operations to manage those costs.
So without giving a projection obviously we want -- we're looking at margin expansion in each category as well as growing the business.
LLC</strong> Sorry Jim I didn't mean in absolute terms on margin but more the incremental margin whether that would accelerate or hold steady? We've averaged the last 3 recessions between $0.35 and $0.55 on operating margins.
And as we spoke last year I mean we came out pretty strong on quarter-by-quarter.
So we -- if you look at the margins the leverage we've had on each quarter it does vary quite a bit.
But to have $0.80 margins going forward I think is unrealistic.
So I would look at our historic leverage which has been $0.35 to $0.55 put in your numbers about how much cost you think we've taken out and I think that gives you an idea of what the average margins will be going forward.
And our next question is from Mike Wood with Macquarie.
From the margin bridge that you provided for North American Gypsum it seems as if the incrementals on the price realized in Wallboard was pretty close to 100% throughout the year and it didn't deteriorate as we got into the back half of the year.
I would've thought that given you had one price increase at the beginning of the year that debt inflation that may have slowed down.
And so was there productivity offsetting that? Or was there inflation subsiding? And can you just give us some color in terms of how we would expect that incrementals on the price that you get to get reflected throughout the year? As you look at quarterly price throughout the year it would -- it varied slightly.
And each quarter we would say it's where we ship and we ship into different parts of the country and there's different customer segments.
But the key is it was pretty flat.
If you look at it quarter-by-quarter it would go up or down a few cents.
And that is really important for our customers.
It gives them certainty on one of their raw materials.
So that is one of the advantages of one price through the year.
They don't have to guess where the price is going.
What you saw this year we ran our plants extremely well I'm so proud of our manufacturing organization as I mentioned in the previous question about Lean Six Sigma but we had probably the best efficiencies we've had in years.
We had some records.
We looked at recovery speed and delay.
We have a very aggressive strategic sourcing group that does a phenomenal job of -- Matt talked about our natural gas and how we hedge our natural gas.
But there's also a lot of commodity input costs that we really manage well.
So what you saw this year is one price for the year basically as we said is around $155 and we really manage that cost line.
That's something that is a core competency for USG.
It's focused on manufacturing costs.
In fact this past year we had the best quality year for our customers in the history of the company.
So we not only ran the plants very efficiently we put a product out the best our customers have ever seen.
And that's the challenge going forward is getting our price improvement and with some of the inflation that we're talking about is how do we continue to offset the inflation.
And most importantly all the hard work we've done the last 5 years is keeping our breakeven at the appropriate levels so that leverage stays strong going forward.
And our next question comes from Garik Shmois with Longbow Research.
Just had a question on the debt reserve in L&amp;W in the fourth quarter.
It was a pretty meaningful benefit for you.
How should we think about that in 2014? Is there going to be a continued benefit as we move through the balance of the year as your customers' balance sheets improve? And if so is it possible to quantify it at all for us just given that the $5 million improvement in 4Q was actually a pretty big number relative to the overall growth of the business? Yes hey Garik this is Matt Hilzinger.
So the adjustment really is a reflection of kind of 2 years of very hard work by the L&amp;W team in improving collections and looking at credit of our customers and extending credit where we absolutely can but really driving improvement in collections.
I think clearly the environment has gotten better right? So our customers' balance sheets have gotten a little bit stronger.
So the whole environment has just improved to the point that we felt that we should reflect kind of a lower bad debt expense.
It's kind of episodic.
It's not something that happens every quarter.
You kind of go through and you take a look at it on a periodic basis we take a look at it annually.
I think we're in a very good spot.
If you take a look at our actual bad debt write-offs at L&amp;W they are extraordinarily low very very low.
So there's not a lot of room more for improvement but we continue to work on our collections.
So I would look at this as more of a onetime and not really roll it into any kind of expectations for '14.
And we have our next question from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Had a quick question you guys flagged bad weather being a headwind.
Obviously you're seeing an uptick on the nat gas side but can you quantify what the impact is going to be from a demand perspective? And are you guys having any operational issues running your facilities with bad weather? We think this year we still have not come off our demand forecast even with the basically 6 weeks of some pretty bad weather throughout most of the United States.
So if you look at the overall demand we feel the opportunity is going to be about 24 billion feet this year from 21 billion of last year.
So along with that we still are running -- capacity utilization has room to go up.
So you may -- if the industry or we were running at 90% 95% capacity utilization that could really impact the demand for the year.
So we feel comfortable with that forecast even sitting here in early February with the cold weather.
On operations we have had some spotty shortages of nat gas in some areas nothing critical.
The key is we just can't ship to a lot of jobs and with the expressways and freeways covered in snow and ice a lot of things are backed up.
So operationally a few issues nothing to speak of.
We have as I said in the earlier question we have a very professional strategic sourcing group that makes sure that we get supply.
We have our natural gas hedged 70% is hedged so we know what our costs are going to be even with the increase in nat gas.
And the key is we need the snow to go away so we can ship it to our customers.
So we feel that the demand will be there and they'll probably looking forward I wouldn't be surprised if we come to early spring that there could be some spot shortages some tightness in some areas because some regionalities we're busier in some regions as I said earlier.
So it's going to -- we still think it's going to be a good year.
Research Division</strong> And just on the spot shortages are you talking about any products specifically or is it wallboard ceilings? I was talking about 2 things.
I was talking about some natural gas shortages earlier which we have handled.
But the spot shortages could be on supply yes.
And our next question is from Trey Grooms with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Just a real quick one on looking at the North American Gypsum segment I mean obviously there's several buckets there.
And I think it looks like that SHEETROCK sales I guess overall are 1/3 of that business or so.
But there's a lot of other moving parts and you guys talked about substrates you talked about with DUROCK and having some success there.
Is there any way that we should be thinking about as we're looking forward and trying to think about those ancillary businesses any way for us to think about how to quantify where and how much and what the size is of these different businesses like joint compound like DUROCK things like that? Is there any more color you can give us on that specifically? Yes if you look at the rest of the U.S.
Gypsum or the North American Gypsum business second largest category and you hit the nail of the head Trey is joint treatment.
And we have a -- our market share in joint treatment is 2x what it is in wallboard so we're covering a lot more wallboard than we ship.
The joint treatment is growing probably relative to what you see in wallboard growth with pretty durable pricing in joint treatment.
Durock Fiberock and substrates probably make up 25% of that.
So the big category if you look at the wallboard the next largest category would be in North American Gypsum would be the we call it surfaces which is not only joint treatment but also plaster which we have a leading market share.
There are still some areas in the country that conventional lathe and plaster are our key products.
So we don't break those out numerically but if you just look at the growth of Gypsum put in a large percentage of the next would be joint treatment and we're covering competitive products as well.
And our next question is from Keith Hughes with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question is on wallboard [indiscernible] pre-buy heading into potential price increases here in 2014.
And any kind of commentary you would be willing to make on prices in wallboard in 2014 would be helpful as well.
If you look at the industry shipments for the quarter there was obviously some pre-buy.
But if you look at our shipments and really compared to last year as well the industry was up greater than our shipments.
We basically have some policies on pre-buying.
We feel that we want to make sure that if a customer is buying 10 loads a week they will get their 10 loads.
But we really try to manage that process and we've done a pretty good job the last couple of years.
So the industry did do some pull forward shipments were up greater than what we ship.
So those numbers are very public and you'll be able to see those.
Along with that as we said earlier we're talking about weather.
So you had some pre-buy and some weather.
We don't comment forward-looking on pricing.
We have a price increase in the market for 2014.
Our pricing strategy remains the same as it has been the last 3 years.
We will give one price for the year and that will be our price for our customers.
Those prices we're a national player they vary by geography by customer segment and that is why we sit down and have individual conversations with our customers.
So we'll be able to report the pricing after the first quarter but our price is up in 2014.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub with Buckingham Research.
The question is you mentioned the potential for some spot shortages on the wallboard side very different experience than what we've had in the last several years.
Are you beginning to think about any adjustments to your production schedules given what looks to be at least in certain markets potentially a real change in the supply-demand dynamic? Well we will not be bringing back any capacity.
What we are looking at there possibly could be a shift to the plant here and there a shift is about 20 people.
If you look at what our costs would be to add a shift is about $1.5 million.
So you really have to think long and hard about adding $1.5 million it has to be a very durable demand.
It can't be just demand has jumped up for 6 weeks and you add a shift and it goes back down the normal levels.
So we would rather run a plant tight and run overtime.
And we want to be doggone sure that the demand is durable and is just not a pent-up demand from the weather that we're seeing right now.
So we are being very diligent on that.
We worked extremely hard over the last 5 years of taking costs out and we want to make sure that we're running our network very efficiently but more -- most importantly we need to take care of our customers.
We've learned in this recession to run our plants 2 or 3 days a week.
And as I said earlier we have some top efficiencies that were on output.
So long answer to your question.
There may be a shift added here or there but we to make sure that the demand in that market is durable.
And our next question comes from Robert Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is actually Desi filling in for Bob.
On the Ceilings business you highlighted that you benefited from a richer product mix.
Is that a trend you expect to continue in the future? And can you give us an idea of what's driving the mix shift? Yes our richer product mix or our high-end products really it's demand-driven.
You see more offices that are LEED 4 offices very big on energy on noise on light people working on their computers.
And those are all high-end ceiling tiles.
A lot of the open office spaces that you're seeing throughout the country sound and noise are very very important.
So it's a high NRC noise reduction coefficient products.
We have been very busy on those products.
We like them because they're high-margins but our Cloquet plant has been sold out.
We made a capital investment 1.5 years ago to expand our capacity at our high-end plants.
And we do foresee that trend continuing.
So we feel that's very positive for the business.
We now have a question from Al Kaschalk with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Jim on the UltraLight products I think you have said that it's 59% of shipments for U.S.
for the Wallboard.
What are you hearing from customers and how can that be further basket [ph] going forward to the pricing and revenue story in that segment? In other words do you think that's a 60% 70% -- sorry 75% of wallboard shipped will be UltraLight? What do you think here going forward? Well we're very pleased with UltraLight.
It is -- our customers continue to demand UltraLight.
And really it's all about the performance.
There's been a lot of talk about how light it is it's 1/3 lighter.
But it's really about the performance.
It doesn't sag the cutability is better and it's the best-performing product in the market.
That actually was one of the products in our USG-Boral joint venture that's very attractive to them because it is in high humidity areas in that part of the world.
If you look at our half-inch UltraLight the percentage is even higher.
Percentage in our half-inch UltraLight is probably around 80% of shipments.
We're expanding our portfolio.
We've expanded it to UltraLight 30 which continues to grow which is -- goes in the commercial market.
So as I said earlier the commercial business is starting to return.
So we anticipate that growing.
And then our UltraLight Firecode which is a one-hour rated product which is the only one in the market we only are shipping that in half the United States and we will be expanding that throughout the United States so we anticipate that to grow as well.
So the number won't be 100% because SHEETROCK Classic is still a great product for us.
Actually SHEETROCK Classic is lighter than most of our competitors' products.
But we probably anticipate that 69% that will -- you'll see that growing each quarter as the portfolio expands throughout actually North America as well.
So what I'd like to do is just wrap up.
I really appreciate all the questions and comments about the year.
This is a very exciting time at USG.
We are making progress as I think you see by the numbers on our Plan to Win and we are very pleased to have generated net income and positive EPS for 2013.
But I want to assure you we still have work to do.
We are positioned to capture the recovery in the United States with our leading customers.
We're going to grow end markets with our new manufacturing footprint with USG-Boral and we're staying extremely focused very focused on our costs and keeping our breakeven at appropriate levels.
But as Matt said and I reiterated we are simultaneously deleveraging our balance sheet.
We're very optimistic about the year ahead and we truly appreciate all the support from our wonderful customers our shareholders and really our dedicated employees throughout the world who have worked extremely hard over the last 5 years to position USG to grow.
Thank you for your interest in our company and we will talk to you next quarter.
Thanks Jim.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Thursday February 13.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the first quarter results conference call.
My name is Adrianne and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I'll now turn the call over to Ken Banas.
Ken Banas you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to USG's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call and Live Webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views assumptions of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
In addition please refer to our earnings press release and presentation slides for disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures used when discussing our results and outlook.
With me today to discuss our results are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the quarter for the corporation and the business segments.
We will then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
[Operator Instructions] Jim? Thank you Ken and good morning.
We appreciate you joining us this morning to talk about our business.
I look forward on giving you an update on the quarter as well as an insight on the markets for the balance of the year.
In the first quarter we improved our results over last year in spite of terrible weather during the quarter.
Weather as you're going to hear throughout our comments this morning had a very significant impact to our business.
Despite the weather and some macroeconomic headwinds we still feel that the market is improving and we remain focused on maximizing the leverage in our business and executing on our Plan to Win.
Before Matt and I cover the highlights for the quarter I'd like to put a couple of things about our business into perspective.
By executing our plan over the last several years that we've shared with you we have fundamentally changed our business.
We've lowered our breakeven from about 26 billion feet of industry opportunity down to around 18 billion feet.
This has directly improved our operating leverage and in 2013 we saw the results as we generated about $450 million of adjusted EBITDA which is above our historical mid-cycle average on about 2/3 of the opportunity.
I want to note that the 2013 results were equal to 1996 which had over 1.5 million housing starts.
And it was better than our results in 2001 versus 2003 in that period where housing starts were between 1.7 million and 1.8 million starts.
So lowering our breakeven has been a significant initiative and impact to our business.
As we return to more normalized demand and with the addition of our joint venture with Boral we clearly expect to outperform our historic average.
Now I'd like to turn to our business units.
In our North American Gypsum segment wallboard results continue to be a key driver of our improving performance.
As a nationwide player that competes in all channels and geographies we have a very broad product and customer mix.
We consider a variety of factors when we make our pricing decisions including our customers' volumes product mix the channel we operate in and our geographies.
During the first quarter our wallboard price improved by over $13 per thousand.
This is the third consecutive year of double-digit dollar increases for our Wallboard business.
Our pricing model that we've discussed with you over the last year or so with a single not-to-exceed price for the year gives us -- gives our customers transparency to their costs while also giving our current customers an opportunity to improve their margins and lower their administrative costs as well.
Overall our wallboard volume improved year-on-year in the quarter but was down sequentially primarily due to the harsh weather that I have talked about.
We have seen some positive trends in April and we think this is a really good green shoot for our business.
Our daily wallboard shipments have improved over 15% from the first quarter and we expect this pace to continue to strengthen throughout the quarter.
The year-on-year improvement and the acceleration this month gives us confidence that the recovery is intact.
Now I'd like to turn to our Worldwide Ceilings business.
Our results were below our expectations and quite frankly as the CEO I haven't been pleased with the results.
Our quarterly performance was impacted by weather and there was some demand pull-forward in the fourth quarter as I mentioned to you on our last call.
The weather issues in the quarter had a substantial impact on our operations where we have 2 ceiling tile plants 2 out of our 3 in Minnesota and Wisconsin and our ability to get product to our customers was very challenging.
Volumes and margins in both tile and grid were lower than our expectations but we do believe this was primarily due to the severe weather.
Our Ceilings business as we've talked about has performed extremely well through the downturn and we've had pricing improvement each year including a recent price increase for both tile and grid in February.
We believe that this business will continue to perform well as the commercial market recovers.
But as we've said in the past in the short term we're going to see continued choppiness in the commercial opportunity.
Now turning to L&amp;W Supply.
At L&amp;W our distribution business we recorded a fourth consecutive quarter of operating profit despite losing several days during the quarter in many of our key markets including the Mid-Atlantic Atlanta and the Carolinas which typically don't have that type of weather in the winter.
As a reference point at L&amp;W this is the first time we've been profitable in the first quarter since 2007.
And in 2007 we shipped twice as much wallboard and had $200 million more in sales a great proof point that the plan is working.
The evidence of our strategy of branch rationalization and our focus on commercial construction where our value proposition really strongly resonates with our customer is really getting some traction.
And I believe that this business will continue to improve throughout 2014 as the commercial opportunity recovers and more velocity runs through our system.
Next I'd like to turn to an exciting part of our business the USG-Boral joint venture.
We're very excited to report that the JV closed the end of February during the first quarter.
The combined teams are working closely together and we are deep into the first phase of our technology upgrades.
The JV sales and marketing team has begun selling adjacent products and we are seeing some early successes in Ceilings in Thailand Joint Treatment in Australia and FIBEROCK in the Middle East.
Now I'd like to take a moment to briefly touch and remind you about our strategy.
As we've said in the past we're very focused on executing the 3 parts of our Plan to Win: strengthening our core diversifying our earnings and differentiating through innovation.
Strengthen diversify and differentiate will be the driver of our performance.
Our commitment to strengthening the core can be seen in our steps towards delevering our balance sheet.
This is a major initiative as our business improves.
During the first quarter we called the remaining $75 million of our 10% convertible notes.
We have now called the full $400 million in converts without risking any limitation on the use of our NOL.
And while this is an important step in strengthening our core business we still plan to reduce our debt by over $1.5 billion as we work towards the target that we've identified our target leverage ratio of 1.5 to 2x debt-to-EBITDA at mid-cycle.
This is an extremely important initiative to lowering our breakeven and strengthening the core of our business.
Diversifying our earnings is our second pillar of our strategy and we took a very important step forward over the quarter with the finalization of USG Boral.
USG Boral Building Products gives us a significant presence in the fastest-growing construction markets in the world.
With improving adoption rate for Western construction practices growing populations and GDP growth in excess of North America the timing is right for us to make this investment.
We're very excited about the potential for this business and we really believe that it will help us dampen some of the cyclicality that we have in our future earnings by 10% to 15%.
The third pillar of our strategy is differentiating through innovation.
We continue to make investments in strengthening our entire portfolio of products including our commercial roofing commercial flooring gypsum mat sheathing and specialty wallboard to deliver the most complete portfolio of products to our customers around the world.
This also includes expected strategic extensions in our UltraLight platform of products this year.
UltraLight currently represents over 60% of our wallboard shipments in the quarter.
And during the first quarter we substantially increased the points of distribution for our UltraLight Mold Tough products which we will expect to continue further adoption as the year unfolds.
Our product innovations contribute to our customer successes and really differentiates USG in the market.
And as we've talked before innovation continues to be a core component of our plan.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Matt and he's going to give greater detail on our financial results from the quarter.
Matt? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll take you through our first quarter results and provide some additional details on each of our business segments.
As Jim said weather clearly had an adverse impact on our results affecting both revenue and our costs.
During the first quarter net sales were $850 million up 4% from the first quarter last year.
First quarter GAAP operating profit was $66 million compared to an operating profit of $49 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Adjusted operating profit for the first quarter this year including our share of the income from our new joint venture with Boral was $69 million compared to adjusted operating profit of $51 million last year.
We recorded GAAP net income of $45 million and positive earnings per diluted share of $0.32 during the first quarter.
On an adjusted basis our net income was $19 million which excludes amongst other items a $27 million gain on deconsolidation for the difference between the fair value and the book value of our contributed entities through our joint venture with Boral.
Diluted EPS on an adjusted basis was $0.14 per share with a fully diluted share count of about 140 million.
Based on our level of adjusted net earnings the recently converted 6.6 million shares associated with our 10% convertible notes were not dilutive in our first quarter adjusted EPS but they should be included in the share count in future quarters.
Before I begin my comments on each of our business units I'd like to point out that although our JV with Boral is accounted under GAAP as income from equity method investment and its results are not consolidated we've included our portion of net income in our adjusted operating profit.
Even though our share of the joint venture is 50% we view this joint venture on equal footing with our business units.
The USG-Boral JV is an important contributor to adjusted operating profit for the benefit of our shareholders so we are going to report the earnings in our adjusted operating profit going forward.
Turning to North American Gypsum.
Sales increased 7% to $544 million for the quarter with operating profit of $65 million compared to $46 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Our wallboard price increase was a primary contributor to our year-on-year improvement adding $16 million.
Despite the bad weather wallboard volumes positively impacted operating profit by $2 million compared to a year ago.
GTL our shipping business contributed $7 million in the quarter due to higher shipping volumes which added $5 million and a $2 million gain on an insurance settlement.
For the year we still expect GTL to contribute about $20 million.
Additionally we had a favorable adjustment on an asset retirement obligation of $7 million in our Canadian mining operations.
Our wallboard cost increased by $2 million over last year primarily related to higher natural gas costs.
While we are 70% hedged on natural gas the cold weather pushed the cost of our collars higher and we also paid higher prices on the 30% of our gas that is unhedged.
For the quarter due to the harsh winter our natural gas cost was $1.23 per decatherm higher than the first quarter of last year but we believe that these higher prices related to the weather are largely behind us.
Before I shift into our realized wallboard price increase I want to make a couple of comments regarding how we think about our wallboard price.
Late last year we conducted an investor perception study and one of the most common pieces of feedback from our investors was the desire for more transparency on wallboard price.
When reporting shipments for purposes of share and capacity the calculation includes all wallboard produced and sold domestically regardless of where it is shipped.
In the case of USG this includes lower-priced sales to our foreign subsidiaries who act as resellers.
While we have consistently used the same methodology to calculate the sales price the historical delta between our average sales price and the sales price to foreign subsidiaries has been relatively small.
However in the past couple of years with our effective cost controls and domestic pricing improvement the difference has become more sizable.
So in an effort to be more transparent to our investors we want to disclose the impact on our average domestic sales price because we expect the difference will grow as prices continue to increase.
During the first quarter our average domestic price before the effect of sales to our foreign subsidiaries was $174.34 compared to a blended average sales price of $166.66 which includes sales at a lower price to our foreign subsidiaries.
On a year-over-year basis the $174 domestic price represents an increase of 10% from our domestic price of $158 during the first quarter of last year.
We do not intend to provide this information prior to 2013 because it has been so small.
However we will be including this information on our press release going forward to illustrate the impact of our sales price to foreign subsidiaries on our average domestic sales prices.
So turning to our average sales price including sales to foreign subsidiaries.
During the first quarter we recorded a $13 price increase with an average sales price of $1.66 -- or $166.66 that's a lot of 6s compared to $153.07 in the first quarter a year ago.
This was our third consecutive year of double-digit dollar improvement.
As you know we do not put a price increase percentage on our letters due to our preference for communicating one-on-one with our customers.
But with a single not-to-exceed price for the year we do not believe that weather had an impact on our price during the quarter.
Our year-over-year pricing improvement continues to work for our customers and is playing an important role on our path to delivering the right return on invested capital to our shareholders.
Our U.S.
Wallboard business shipped approximately 1.15 billion square feet in the quarter.
Despite the weather this was a 4% improvement compared to the first quarter of last year.
It is very important to note that in the weather-affected states we actually saw a decrease of about 2% in our year-over-year shipments while we saw approximately 9% growth in the non-weather-affected states during the first quarter.
Our year-over-year improvement in the non-weather-affected areas and the volume acceleration we've seen in April gives us optimism on the balance of the year.
While the cold weather had an impact on our first quarter volumes at this point we expect to largely recapture the impacted volumes over the balance of the year.
We continue to get questions from the investment community regarding capacity utilization.
Some investors have asked us how we think about adding new capacity so I wanted to take a moment to talk about it.
Although our effective capacity is running in the mid-70% range our physical capacity utilization is about 50%.
So we have sufficient access physical capacity to easily service any uptick in demand.
In fact USG can run well up to the historical averages of about 1.5 million housing starts and 1.3 billion square feet of commercial starts with our current active network of lines and plants before we would have to consider adding physical capacity.
Our shareholders -- as our shareholders would expect we are going to be incredibly financially disciplined in any decision to add further capacity.
We have no need or plans to restart a line or plant any time in the foreseeable future but you may see us add a labor shift or 2 in some of the tighter markets to meet durable demand especially if there is sudden spikes in demand as the weather improves.
Turning to Worldwide Ceilings business.
Our results were also severely impacted by the harsh weather during the first quarter and the pull forward of demand from the fourth quarter.
In the first quarter of this year we recorded operating profit of $14 million on $138 million in sales compared to operating profit of $27 million on $153 million in sales during the first quarter of 2013.
Volumes in both our ceiling tile and grid product lines were softer year-over-year impacting results by $4 million.
And we also had some cost increases including natural gas that impacted our margins by $7 million.
These were partially offset by price improvement which contributed $2 million.
Additionally during the quarter for the first time in about 15 years we saw some natural gas curtailments at our largest tile facility in Cloquet Minnesota.
And the weather also created some challenges in getting raw materials into some of our other plants as well.
Both of these issues impacted our quarterly volumes and efficiencies and we are seeing some of this carry over into the second quarter as there are still some challenges with gas and rail issues which continue to impact our ability to get raw materials.
Nevertheless we expect our costs will normalize as we get through the second quarter.
Our Ceilings business is about 85% levered towards the commercial market and while we expect the choppiness in our results to continue we are bullish on the long-term outlook for commercial.
At L&amp;W Supply net sales were $300 million in the first quarter an increase of 7% year-on-year with same-store sales up 6% which includes the adverse impact of weather.
Our operating profit of $1 million in this year's first quarter compares to an operating loss of $2 million a year ago.
We saw margin expansion across most of our core products with volume and spread improvement on wallboard as the primary contributor adding $3 million.
We also had a favorable bad debt adjustment of $2 million due to our continued improvement in our collections and the strengthening of our customers' balance sheets.
Our cost of goods sold related to our branch delivery and overhead cost was slightly higher during the quarter impacting results by $3 million.
L&amp;W Supply which is 2/3 levered to the commercial market is poised to capitalize its opportunity returns to the commercial market.
We simply need more velocity to drive L&amp;W's profit line.
As Jim said we are very excited to include our new JV with Boral in our operating results.
Please take note that our quarterly results only include March as we finalized the transaction at the end of February.
So for the first quarter of this year we recognized $3 million in earnings which is our share of the joint venture's net income on $89 million of aggregate joint venture sales.
I want to remind you that full-year earnings estimates should be adjusted for 10 months based on the closing date and point out that January and February are summer months in certain parts of the JV territory.
Additionally our guidance is prior to foreign currency adjustments which may have a slight impact on actual results.
We are extremely excited about this joint venture with Boral for all of its growth potential but also because it's immediately cash and earnings accretive NPV positive balance sheet neutral and self-funding with no capital calls expected from USG Corporation.
Lastly regarding our joint venture we intend to show more details on this business than you might expect from an equity method investment but please note that our current slide does not contain historical information because this is a new business for us.
As we get more quarters you'll be able to see more comparative information.
Shifting to liquidity.
As of March 31 we had total liquidity of $618 million compared to $767 million a year ago.
Consistent with prior years we expect that our use of cash will be higher during the first quarter due to lower levels of seasonal demand rebate and incentive payments and year-end accruals.
This year we also used $513 million in cash to fund our upfront payment to Boral.
Based on our expected pace of the recovery I believe that we have adequate liquidity at this point in the cycle.
Lastly I want to reiterate our commitment to organically delevering our balance sheet and talk about our decision to call the remaining $75 million of 10% convertible senior notes in March.
Due to trading activity during the quarter we were in a position to call the remaining convertible debt without jeopardizing our $2.1 billion net operating loss carryforward for tax purposes.
While converting this debt to equity created 6.6 million shares we removed about $7.5 million in interest expense this year.
We have now called the full $400 million in convertible notes reducing our total debt burden and decreasing our annual interest obligation by $40 million.
As Jim said and as I'm committed to delevering our balance sheet is a top strategic priority and we will continue to evaluate every opportunity to organically pay down debt.
At this time I'd like to turn the call back to Jim.
Thank you Matt.
Before we take questions I'd like to take a few minutes just to discuss our views on the overall market.
As you've heard during the first quarter weather was obviously a major impact to our business.
20 of our U.S.
plants lost production.
And across the network we lost more than 100 hours’ worth of total production hours.
Plus our customers' businesses were also impacted which delayed shipments in deferred demand.
However and I want to reiterate this we believe that the short-term weather disruptions in the quarter have not altered the overall recovery in our business.
If you look at the 3 segments first on residential as you all look at the numbers seasonally adjusted housing starts for March were just below 950 million which was lower than last year but sequentially stronger.
We believe that housing starts will improve as the year unfolds and our outlook remains between 1 million and 1.1 million starts.
Longer term we believe that there is pent-up demand for housing and the overall demographics indicate durable strength in the residential recovery.
One of our big markets Repair and Remodel continues to be a key driver for our business.
In the first quarter the Harvard Joint Center for Housing and NAHB both projected that spending on residential R&amp;R will continue to improve in 2014.
In commercial R&amp;R we're seeing signs of strengthening.
Office vacancy rates are improving slightly this year from a high in 2010 of almost 18% to 16% nationally where some major markets like New York City the vacancy rates are below 10%.
Through our partnerships with large customers in the big-box channel and our strong distribution position we're going to benefit from this continued recovery in the commercial Repair and Remodel segment.
In overall commercial construction new commercial the macro factors continue to point to a very modest second half recovery.
The indicators that we all look at ABI have been positive for 16 of the past 20 months.
But while yesterday's report showed a contraction on a national basis if you look at the non-weather-related areas in the South and the West both reported growth.
This is consistent with what we've been seeing in our overall commercial business and with volume that we looked at at our L&amp;W shipments on steel they've been improving slightly in the non-weather-affected areas during the quarter.
So early indication that things are improving slightly but we are going to continue to see a choppy market.
Based on discussions with our commercial contractors really over the last month they remain very optimistic about 2014 as they start to see their backlogs continuing to grow.
So while we see some quarterly disruptions and ongoing choppiness our outlook for the year on commercial still remains in the mid-single-digit range with activity picking up slightly as we get further into the year.
We believe the recovery needs for our end-use markets is intact.
And for the full year in 2014 we're projecting wallboard industry shipments to be around the 23 billion-foot market as we continue to grow USG as the market recovers.
So now what we'd like to do is open up the call to you and we'll be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we have Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> My first I guess and only question is on wallboard pricing.
I appreciate some of the additional detail there.
The 10% increase roughly -- or I guess on an effective basis 9% year-over-year a couple of the other manufacturers announced a 20% increase for the year.
And certainly you don't necessarily get the full realization of that in the marketplace there's always back and forth but you did mention that if I heard you right that you believe that weather did not impact pricing or your ability to achieve price in the marketplace.
So just wanted to get a sense of did you kind of go out with a price increase that was similar to other manufacturers? Was it a little bit less? And would you expect even though you said you don't expect weather to be an effect -- I mean is this the price that you'd expect would be with us for the rest of the year for the rest of 2014? Yes Michael let me just touch on a couple of things.
First as both Matt and I said this is the third consecutive year of a double-digit increase in wallboard price.
And as you know we supply all channels: retail the specialty dealers which focus on both housing and residential and manufactured housing.
We ship in all 50 states.
And it is a local market.
There are different dynamics locally.
Market is different in Seattle than it is in Miami.
We do feel that we have a wonderful value proposition with our customers with the full product line.
And we're quite pleased with getting this increase.
You get a double-digit increase in the midst of what we talked about on weather.
But weather had no impact.
We go to our customers on an individual basis anywhere from probably Thanksgiving to the end of the year that's really before weather hit so we're expecting we have one price for the year it's not to exceed.
And a long answer to your question on is this the number we're as -- if you looked at last year our number bounced around.
It was pretty steady.
It maybe bounced $1 or so.
But the beauty of this pricing policy for our customers is it gives them clarity for their cost for the entire year.
So they can lock that into their models and they can run their business.
And what our customers have told us it makes a lot of sense for them because they can focus on growing their business they know where their costs are and it's really helped them on administrative costs.
So yes this is going to be the range for the year.
It may bounce around because where we ship and some geographies.
But what you see is our basically $166 $167 price.
That's the number you'll probably see as the year unfolds.
And our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie.
I had a question on incremental margins both in the U.S.
Gypsum and the L&amp;W Supply.
On the U.S.
Gypsum if I do the math your price realization looks to be more than the year-over-year profit improvement in U.S.
Gypsum.
So I was wondering what -- if there's anything unusual driving that negative incremental margin in the U.S.
Gypsum business.
And L&amp;W Supply same question in terms of was the pass-through at no incremental margin on the wallboard price just pulling back on that incremental margin in L&amp;W Supply? Let me just touch on that and I'll turn it over -- a little more detail Matt will give you.
As we've talked we've been averaging the last couple cycles between $0.35 and $0.50 of incremental margins.
And if you look at the last 12 months we've done a little better than that but it bounces around quarter-on-quarter.
I'll specifically answer your L&amp;W question and then turn it over to Matt.
If you looked at the waterfall breakdown of the L&amp;W results L&amp;W did get margin improvement on wallboard.
So their spread did improve in the quarter.
Their comp store sales were up but they also got price improvement above what their cost increase were.
So we were pleased with L&amp;W's performance.
And quite frankly in a very difficult market from a weather standpoint when you have a 150 locations I think getting that improvement in the market from L&amp;W was very positive.
But I'll turn it over to Matt to talk about the incrementals that -- you had a question on Gypsum and the overall business.
Yes Mike I'd focus in again on the -- Mike I would focus in on really the impact of weather.
We've gone through it.
It's hard -- this is not science so it's difficult to get an absolute precise impact of what we think the weather had on our cost.
But if you look at for instance gas and then you look at just additional transportation cost to get raw materials into our plants we think that was probably somewhere $10 million or plus between the wallboard side and the ceiling side.
And then you look at -- on the revenue side we actually think that there was a depression in revenues of somewhere call it $10 million to $15 million and that had an impact on operating profit call it between $5 million and $10 million.
So those 2 numbers when you factor those in I think had a pretty significant impact on why our incremental operating profit went down.
And as Jim said I mean typically when we come -- when you come out of a recession you're between 30% 50%.
We've been over 50% over the last couple of years and our anticipation would be is that we would run the business and keep it at the high end of that range.
And I think Jim spent a lot of time talking about our focus on keeping our breakeven low and those are things we're going to continue to do.
So I would -- I don't want to use weather as an excuse but I want to just tell you that I think it had a pretty significant impact on those numbers.
And we have Trey Grooms from Stephens on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> Jim you mentioned in your remarks that you're expecting industry shipments of about 23 billion square feet this year.
I think that's up from about 21 billion last year.
And assuming you guys maintain current share that implies somewhere in the 10% to 12% range for volume growth for the next 3 quarters or so to get up to that.
Should we be expecting -- because I know you talked about an acceleration in April.
Should we be expecting 2Q to get more than their typical share this -- more than its typical share this year given just the timing and the weather and all things combined with your outlook? Yes I think that's definitely going to have to happen Trey.
As I've said we're seeing early -- we're now almost through April.
We're up about 15% on a daily rate 15% 16%.
That needs to continue and yes we're going to need to see some seasonal uptick.
Everything's going to have to -- we had talked last time the range could be 23% and I was a little optimistic maybe north of that.
We think housing's going to return.
Repair and Remodel is very strong for us.
I mean we follow comp store sales of our big customers and we're seeing some nice movement there.
But to get in that 23% range we're going to have to have that second and third quarter which typically are the strong quarters to have some pretty good -- we have to continue to be shipping where we are right now.
But we still haven't -- we haven't given it up.
I don't think we're being overly optimistic.
I think our track record is we've been always cautiously optimistic.
And the volume is there.
It's just it's when it's going to hit.
But we're starting to some early signs.
L&amp;W's shipping construction steel at higher rates now which is typically earlier in the construction cycle steel studs go up first.
So that's a little early indicator.
And one thing that's -- this is the first time that we've heard this since the recession our commercial contractors are starting to see a nice backlog which again we won't see that maybe for 9 to 12 months.
But they're starting to -- they're getting the backlog of their business which we didn't see at this time last year.
So long and the short of it yes we need to have the second quarter have a nice bump followed up by a nice third quarter on volume.
And we're cautiously optimistic that we're going to get some wind at our back.
And we have Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital on line with a question.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you about SG&amp;A SG&amp;A investments that you made in the North American Gypsum business and Ceilings.
And if you could help us think about the trajectory of spending and how that's going to progress through the year.
Is it going to be mostly front-loaded in the first half or do you see it being more consistent throughout the year? Bob this is Matt.
I think I would view it as fairly consistent throughout the year.
I think we have said I think in the last call that we expected our total SG&amp;A for the company to be between $330 million and $340 million for the year.
We still believe that that's the right estimate.
And that's up from what we spent in 2013 as we continue to make some very focused investments that are really focused around the customer.
And there are some things in IT as an example around customer ordering systems and around Sales Force Automation.
And it benefits not just Ceilings but it benefits our other businesses as well.
We continue to work and we're doing some things around customer branding and we've got some new products that are coming out.
So from our standpoint we've kind of defined it internally as good cholesterol bad cholesterol.
We're going to continue to get the bad cholesterol out lowering our breakeven finding efficiencies and making investments where we think it's going to really help the customers and grow the top line and add to profitability.
So I would view this as something that would be consistent with the guidance that I've given in the past.
And it's going to be a little bit lumpy because you're just -- that's the way it is.
But I think I'd stick with the guidance that we've given in the past.
And we have Philip Ng from Jefferies on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> Can you help quantify the headwind for weather in your Ceilings business during the quarter? And do you expect margins demand to return to more normalized levels in 2Q? I mean you guys generally sound more upbeat about non-res.
Yes.
As we talked about we talked about weather a lot and we thought it was important to quantify it.
If you look at the total business and then I'll touch on Ceilings we think the revenue impact on weather was between $30 million and $50 million.
And we think from an operating profit standpoint could anywhere between $10 million and $15 million.
On Ceilings we have a range.
It probably impacted us $5 million to $6 million on operating profit and we got a price increase.
So one of the things that is a key point when we talked about natural gas when we get a $1 increase a decatherm on our natural gas that has a major impact on ceilings.
For example a $1 increase a decatherm on our wallboard cost is just like $1.5 $2 on cost.
$1 a decatherm on ceiling tile is almost $6 per thousand on cost.
So it's almost 3x as much on a cost standpoint.
So the commercial market is still going to be choppy.
We're still very optimistic about our Ceilings business.
But the quarter was tough and we didn't comp even if you throw these numbers in.
And I just want to reiterate it wasn't a surprise to us.
It's kind of where our plants are located.
But we need to reverse this trend and we think -- we know we can do that.
So I would say on the non-res opportunity it's still back half of the year.
There's still a lot of -- we talked about vacancy rates but there's still some headwinds from a macroeconomic standpoint there.
But we are still very pleased with the overall performance of our Ceilings business.
And we have Stephen Kim from Barclays on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> Just want to ask a question getting back to the drywall pricing.
You were kind enough to break out the foreign impact.
I was curious though regionally across the country isn't it true that your drywall prices generally vary from region to region? And so therefore I wanted to go back to this question of whether weather impacted the prices this quarter because obviously weather didn't impact all regions equally.
And so I was curious as to whether the regions which were more impacted by weather whether they generally have a higher price or is it pretty much consistent with the national average? So just to reiterate on the price we feel that weather did not have an impact to where our price landed.
We had all of our price pages to our customers and all of our discussions were basically in most cases done by the end of December.
So really all the bad weather hit as everyone knows when it -- January February.
There really isn't a correlation on how bad the weather and where the price is.
It's really the makeup of the market.
Is it more heavily commercial? Is it heavily residential? Is it a big builder market? Are there large -- is there a big influx of the big-box retailers? It's really the supply and demand dynamics.
Along with that it's how far you have to ship into a region.
If you have to ship longer distances pricing tends to be different.
So there is not a correlation on affected -- an area that was not affected got a higher price.
It's more the customer makeup the channel the competitive situation and balancing price and volume.
And we have Michael Dahl from Crédit Suisse on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the joint venture.
I guess it's now 2 months in post close and you've been looking at the businesses for a couple of months on top of that.
So just wanted to get your thoughts on what are the biggest surprises so far you've seen either positive or negative whether it's on revenue opportunities or just integration of the businesses? Great.
Thank you for the question on USG Boral.
We are extremely excited about this.
Strategically it really positions us to as I said in my prepared comments to minimize some of the cyclicality that's been inherent in our business.
And we think that has anywhere between a 10% and 15% impact on that cyclicality which I think is a very very important point.
The first phase of USG Boral has always been on technology.
This is to get all their plants level set.
We are extremely pleased with the results on the technology side.
We got an early start to do it.
The cooperation between USG and the Boral team has been exceptional.
It's been very welcoming.
The big challenge is a lot of geography.
We have plants in Indonesia South Korea Vietnam Australia.
So we broke up our technology team into kind of SWAT teams.
We prioritized the kind of the low-hanging fruit from a technology standpoint.
We're doing it in phases.
Phase 1 we're going to have completed by the third quarter of this year.
And we think the early indications are very very positive.
It's really focusing on quality.
It's focusing on level-setting the 24 board lines to do it one way.
We've been doing this for 112 years so we kind of have a system that we do this and it kind of works.
And we're kind of -- we're bringing in USG the USG system but it is a kind of -- it's a loose-tight because Boral has a 40% market share in this region.
So they're doing a lot of things really well.
So it's really on the technology side no big surprises.
Actually we reported to the USG Board of Directors we're very pleased with the early results.
Really the challenge I think we're facing now is how fast can we adopt the adjacent products.
We've had some early successes.
We need the USG Boral team now selling the full complementary of products that ceiling tile DUROCK FIBEROCK and Joint Treatment.
And we're looking at market shares on Joint Treatment which are lower than what we expect so we're putting in USG formulas.
And really having the culture sell those adjacent products is really our next challenge.
And it's a lot of training.
We've had the USG Boral team in for training.
We've infused USG sales and marketing experts over in the region that will be part of the JV.
And so really that would be the area that we really need to -- the adoption -- we really have to accelerate the adoption rate.
So the good news is the technology is getting implemented and we're very pleased there.
The area that as you asked what is one of the things that we just have to keep our eye on and where maybe what may keep us up at night is we just have to make sure that adoption rate in 12 countries with the full product portfolio gets into the market ASAP.
And your next question comes from Garik Shmois with Longbow Research.
I have a question on Ceilings.
You highlighted in the deck $7 million in cost inflation.
Jim you mentioned that there were some energy inflation and supply constraints and these are going to continue into the second quarter.
So I guess just a follow-up to a previous question.
Could you help us quantify perhaps what the overhang is going to be from some of these supply constraints into 2Q? And maybe talk about -- you mentioned that you were unpleased with how the business performed in the first quarter.
Anything specifically you can do to tighten it up in the second quarter and beyond? Yes let me just touch on a couple of items and then I'll turn it over to Matt.
From a gas standpoint we got curtailed as Matt said.
It's been a long time since that happened particularly in our Cloquet Minnesota plant and we lost a lot of production there.
So that has ended.
We're-- the supply has opened up.
The snow has started to melt.
We were -- we could not get trucks on raw materials into our plants because of the harsh winter.
We switched it over to rail then the rail hung up.
And those supply lines have started to open up.
So in the second quarter we're going to see some relief on that -- those costs headwinds that we had.
And quite frankly we're still in a fairly fairly choppy commercial market.
So we're -- the overhang on the cost we think is going to start minimizing as the second quarter results show.
And I think we have our supply lines opened up.
Yes Jim I would just add a couple of things.
We did and have expected to just see some normal inflation in '14 over '13.
And so -- but when you get this kind of weather anomaly it's very hard to just pull out exactly what's weather and what's some inflation.
But I would say when you look at the ceilings number and you see the tile and grid cost number of $7 million a really big portion of that is gas.
And as I had mentioned we -- I think last year our total gas cost for the company was around -- right around $3.75 and we expected it to be somewhere around $3.90 to $4 this year.
It peaked at $6.15 and we did have some hedges that I talked about before and we did have some open position but even now the current spots at $4.73.
So it's not like on April 1 everything got back in the kind of a normalize view.
So the positive thing is when you look out into 2015 gas cost right now the forward curve shows it at $4.20.
So I think we are in a supply-demand situation caused by the weather right now.
And to the extent that that clears itself up quicker we'll obviously see that in our P&amp;L a little faster than we normally would.
But I do think we are going to see a little bit of that carry forward just into the second quarter just because it's going to take a while to get this -- the gas back to what we think is a much more reasonable and normalized side.
And then I had also talked a little bit about railcars and getting supplies up to our plants.
With all the weather and the snow it just -- it's been more difficult to get trucks up there.
At the same token a lot of people wanted to use rail not just us and that put pressure on cost to get rail and finding railcars.
And so I think as the snow melt continues and we get trucks back on the road I think we'll get a supply back up and we'll get our costs back in line.
So I -- it's hard to give you an exact number but I think by the end of the second quarter our view is our costs will be back in line with what we would expect them to be.
But we'll see a little bit of it in the second quarter.
And we have Kathryn Thompson from Thompson Research Group on line with a question.
LLC</strong> In light of higher cost and improving demand for ceiling tiles in particular do you think there's room for an additional price increase on top of the February price increase in 2014? And if not could you clarify why it wouldn't be the case? On our Ceilings business I think really through the recession Kathryn we've had pretty good success on price increases both ceiling tile and grid.
So we don't have one price for the year on ceilings and grid.
And we will -- any pricing increase decision will be -- we put those factors in.
We look at demand.
We look at raw material costs.
We look at -- one of the things you -- what drives our Ceilings business really is our grid business.
We talk a lot about tile costs which had a major impact but the question would be what's going to happen with raw steel? If you look at the steel indexes if we see an increase in the steel index which is a forward-looking curve absolutely we're going to beat inflation by raising our grid prices.
So all of those factors come into hand.
And if those all come together and we will -- we want to continue to grow our return on invested capital on ceilings and we would put another price increase in the market absolutely.
LLC</strong> So there's a greater bias to an increase than not? I love increases.
We have Keith Hughes from SunTrust on line with a question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes just final question.
A follow-up on your curtailments that you discussed in the ceiling plants.
How many days were you curtailed on natural gas there? I think it was a handful of days.
I don't know the exact number but it was -- I don't think it was -- I don't think it was a ton.
And I will now turn the call back over to Ken Banas for final remarks.
Well in lieu of Ken this is Jim.
And I'd like to just first of all thank everyone for your questions and really your interest in our company.
One of the things -- and we had quite a few challenges during the quarter but fundamentally the business has really repositioned itself as I've said earlier about lowering our breakeven and growing the business.
But I want to do take this moment.
The USG team had a tremendous amount of challenges this quarter with the weather and curtailments and railcars and all the things we're talking about.
But at the end of the day we were in front of our customers taking care of our customers day in and day out.
In the first quarter what our team has done -- and we've took some very important steps as we talked about deleveraging our balance sheet that is extremely important of lowering our breakeven.
We entered into the USG-Boral joint venture.
And we generated positive operating results in the net income despite all the headwinds in our face.
Our outlook is very favorable.
We believe that the long-term fundamentals still remain solid.
We're well positioned to capitalize as demand continues to improve in each of our end-use markets and we're going to continue to execute the plan that we've talked about to grow USG.
As always we thank you for your time today and your interest in USG.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Thursday May 8.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect.
Welcome to the USG Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call Webcast.
My name is Christine and I will be the operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Ken Banas.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call and Live Webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumptions of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
In addition please refer to our earnings press release and presentation slides for disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures used when discussing our results and outlook.
With me today to discuss our results are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the quarter for the corporation and the business segments.
We will then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
[Operator Instructions] Jim? Thank you and good morning.
We appreciate everyone joining us this morning and I look forward to giving you an update on our business as well as an insight on our overall market.
I'm happy to report that during the second quarter we delivered the strongest net income in the -- since the second quarter of 2007 when we generated the same earnings on $1.4 billion in sales compared to $948 million this quarter.
While demand was not where we expected it has increased compared to last year and we believe it will improve in the second half of this year.
It's important to note that in spite of ongoing choppiness in the macroeconomic environment we continue to improve our performance.
I'm confident in our strategy and believe our business is positioned to benefit from improvements in our end-use markets regardless of the pace of the recovery.
So what I'd like to do now is turn to our business segments.
In our Gypsum segment wallboard volume improved from the first quarter and year-on-year despite softness in the overall opportunity during the quarter.
As a reminder our wallboard shipments typically lag housing starts by 90 to 120 days so the year-on-year increase in starts that we saw in the quarter is not yet evident in our shipments.
Our wallboard pricing policy continues to work for our customers and for us.
Our price during the quarter was relatively flat compared to the first quarter.
The other half of the Gypsum business is our surfaces and substrates business units.
These businesses also saw improvement and combined to contribute $2 million in operating profit led by our DUROCK product line which improved margins by 9%.
In our Ceilings business we had a very strong quarter despite not outperforming last year's record second quarter.
We saw steady improvement in volume each month during the quarter as weather improved and we had price improvement in both tile and grid.
Our costs were up slightly during the quarter from some carryover we had in the first quarter but has now stabilized.
Our Ceilings business is levered to the persistently choppy commercial market.
And while we expect this to continue Ceilings is very well-positioned to benefit as the market improves.
In our Distribution segment we recorded our 10th consecutive quarter of improved year-over-year operating profit.
This was our strongest second quarter since 2008 when wallboard industry shipments were 6.7 billion square feet compared to 5.4 billion shipped in the quarter this year.
L&amp;W continues to make operational improvements and we remain focused on keeping our breakeven low while positioning the business for growth as the commercial opportunity rebounds.
Now turning to USG Boral.
I'm very excited to report our first full quarter of operating results.
The joint venture is off to a wonderful start.
We have already secured several large commercial jobs with our full suite of products: plasterboard as they refer to drywall in that part of the world; ceilings; joint compound; and FIBEROCK.
Our customers in these emerging markets are seeing the value in working with USG Boral that not only supplies a superior plasterboard but one that also provides system integrity with other industry-leading products.
Now let me shift and touch briefly on the USG strategy.
We are extremely focused on our 3 pillars of our Plan to Win: strengthening our core diversifying our earnings and differentiating through innovation.
And I'm going to touch on each one of these.
Our commitment to strengthening the core can be seen in L&amp;W's improved results.
During the downturn we significantly rationalized our footprint by closing over 125 locations.
However we didn't simply focus on branch reductions.
We refocused L&amp;W on the commercial contractor where we add significant value.
We also injected initiatives to better leverage our scale through strategic sourcing and category management in areas like insulation and steel.
We streamlined our operations by elevating the P&amp;L and pricing accountability.
With our new strategy in place we have lowered our breakeven in L&amp;W from about $500 million in quarterly sales before the recession to about $300 million today.
With our improved leverage we expect L&amp;W which has generated low-single-digit margins over the past 20 years to outperform historical operating margins at similar points over the cycle.
As I've said before L&amp;W is a key part of USG's portfolio.
L&amp;W provides a nationwide footprint for USG product launches; supports our pricing policies; has growth in product adjacencies which represent over 50% of L&amp;W sales; and most importantly has 30 000 contractor customers which gives us a better insight into the market.
The second pillar of our strategy is diversify our earnings through product adjacencies and strategic geographic extensions.
Diversifying our earnings will better position USG at all points in the cycle.
USG Boral is obviously a big part of our strategy and we're very excited about the growth potential of this business.
As we mentioned last quarter USG Boral operates in 12 countries that have GDP growth that are expected to outperform the U.S.
market.
They have improving adoption rates around construction practices and we are #1 or #2 in most markets we serve.
The 2 teams at USG and Boral have really gelled well together and quickly have embraced the new technologies and processes that we are putting in.
The technology rollout is progressing better than expected and as a result we are months ahead of schedule.
While the preexisting Boral business performed very well we believe that leveraging USG technologies across all of the products and throughout this emerging region will drive additional revenue for USG in the future.
The third pillar of our strategy is differentiating through innovation.
At USG our focus on differentiating is aimed at inventing value-added technologies that improve our products and systems and most importantly provide our customers with better solutions.
As we continue to expand our UltraLight platform and portfolio we had a national rollout of our new SHEETROCK UltraLight Mold Tough.
UltraLight Mold Tough is contractor-preferred and performs very well in high humidity and coastal growth areas.
We are excited about this new extension and will be a very important product in our new Asian and Australasian markets.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Matt Hilzinger to give you a greater review of our financial results in the quarter.
Matt? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll take you through the changes to our reportable segments and provide some additional details on our consolidated second quarter results and business segment performances.
First I'd like to discuss the changes to our reportable segments.
Due in part to the contribution of our entities from USG International into our USG Boral joint venture we wanted to better align our reportable segments with the structural focus of our operations.
So new to this quarter we have 4 reportable segments: Gypsum Ceilings Distribution and USG Boral Building Products.
We believe that our new segment structure is aligned with how we strategically approach these businesses.
We have also issued an 8-K with recast results this morning back to the beginning of 2013 to illustrate these changes.
I would recommend that you take a look at that 8-K strongly.
Our reportable segments will continue to be structured around our key products and business units.
Our Gypsum segment includes sales of our wallboard surfaces substrates and related building products.
The operating segments within our Gypsum segment are structured geographically and our other operating segment is still only comprised of our shipping business GTL and mining.
Our Ceiling segment is comprised of the sales of ceiling tile grid specialty ceilings and other ceilings-related products with the operating segments structured geographically.
There are no changes to our distribution segment other than a slightly shorter name.
Our fourth segment is USG Boral Building Products.
While for GAAP reporting its results are not consolidated as it's reported as income from equity method investments we view this business on equal ground with our other businesses.
And we will continue to include our portion of the joint venture's net income in our adjusted operating profit.
Now turning to our consolidated results.
During the second quarter net sales were $948 million up 3% from the second quarter of last year.
We recorded GAAP net income of $57 million compared to GAAP net income of $25 million in the second quarter of 2013.
On an adjusted basis our net income was $48 million and we recorded positive earnings per diluted share of $0.32 with a fully diluted share count of about 147 million shares.
As a reminder we have called the full $400 million of convertible notes and the new shares associated with the convertible notes should be included in the share count going forward.
Our adjusted earnings excludes among other items a $12 million gain on the sale of real estate for our formerly closed Clark New Jersey paper mill and our share of a restructuring charge at USG Boral for $2 million which I'll discuss in more detail in a few minutes.
Adjusted operating profit for the second quarter this year including our share of the adjusted income from USG Boral Building Products was $93 million compared to adjusted operating profit of $76 million last year.
Our adjusted EBITDA of $145 million during the quarter was 18% higher than the second quarter of last year.
Now shifting to our quarterly business performances.
In our Gypsum segment sales increased by 6% to $612 million for the quarter with adjusted operating profit of $83 million compared to $68 million in the second quarter of 2013.
Wallboard results were a primary driver of our year-on-year improvement with pricing contributing $18 million and volume adding an additional $2 million.
Our wallboard cost increased by $2 million compared to the second quarter of last year partially related to higher natural gas costs.
As I mentioned on our last earnings call we expected to pay a higher cost on natural gas for most of the quarter with our cost normalizing as the quarter closed.
For the quarter our natural gas cost was about $0.50 per decatherm higher than the second quarter last year.
But as expected our gas costs are now within the range of our annual plan and we expect them to remain there for the balance of the year.
Looking at pricing.
Our quarterly blended wallboard price was flat sequentially at $167.31 per thousand square feet 9% higher than the second quarter last year.
As we have previously stated our price can fluctuate slightly due to regionality mix freight and channel differences.
Last quarter we also introduced our new U.S.
domestic price which excluded lower-priced sales to our foreign subsidiaries.
Based on feedback that we received from our investors during the quarter we are amending this disclosure to exclude all shipments to our customers outside of the U.S.
and not just our sales to our foreign subsidiaries.
While the delta between the 2 methods is small we believe that this disclosure will be more meaningful related to our domestic sales price and we will use this methodology going forward.
With that said our domestic price for the second quarter this year was $174.32 an increase of 9% compared to our domestic price of $159.62 a year ago.
In our U.S.
Wallboard business during the second quarter we shipped 1.3 billion square feet an increase of 3% compared to the prior year.
Our quarterly volumes lagged the industry growth primarily due to customer makeup and geographical exposure to markets that grew more slowly in the second quarter.
Additionally we didn't see the expected uptick in the states that were impacted by weather in the first quarter which grew at the same 3% rate as the non-weather-affected states.
Our market share through 6 months remained flat year-on-year.
It's clear our strategy to drive profitability and return on invested capital is working.
Turning to capacity.
Our wallboard effective capacity utilization rate was 77% during the quarter.
At this time we have the right staffing levels at our plants to meet current and near-term demand.
I also want to take a moment to restate our views on physical capacity.
With our current active network of plants we have just over 4 billion square feet in total excess annual capacity.
In fact we have sufficient excess capacity to run up to and well beyond the historical mid-cycle averages of about 1.5 million housing starts and 1.3 billion square feet of commercial starts without adding additional physical capacity.
As I said last quarter and as our shareholders would expect we will be financially disciplined in any decision to add further physical capacity and we will also be diligent as we evaluate the need for incremental shifts.
Turning to our Ceilings business.
We had a strong second quarter with a terrific snapback from the first quarter.
Adjusted operating profit was $24 million on $130 million in sales this year compared to $26 million on $144 million in sales last year.
But last year's recast sales of $144 million also includes about $12 million in sales associated with our entities that were contributed to the USG Boral JV which makes our comp store sales in Ceilings virtually flat year-on-year.
Pricing improvement for both tile and grid contributed $5 million year-over-year which was offset by $2 million due to softer volume and $3 million in higher cost.
A large portion of our higher Ceilings costs are attributable to some carryover of higher cost for natural gas from the cold winter which we anticipated.
But as we've said I believe these costs are now normalized.
Our Ceilings business is about 85% commercial.
And while we expect an uneven improvement in our results to continue we believe that there is still headroom for margin and volume expansion as the commercial recovery grinds forward.
Moving to Distribution.
Net sales in the second quarter were $344 million with same-store sales up 6%.
Given that Distribution is 75% leveraged to commercial activity we see this as a positive signal that commercial market continues to recover.
In addition we recorded our fifth consecutive quarter of positive operating profit recording $4 million during the second quarter compared to an operating profit of $1 million a year ago.
As Jim said earlier we are very excited to report our first full quarter of operating results for our USG Boral joint venture.
Total sales for USG Boral were $280 million in the second quarter and we generated $23 million in total adjusted operating profit which excludes a $7 million pretax restructuring charge associated with cost reduction initiatives aimed at eliminating redundant positions and processes.
Although there is an upfront charge we do expect to see the benefit of these cost reductions beginning in calendar year 2015 which should help drive improved performance.
Our portion of the JV's adjusted net income was $6 million and included a nonoperational charge of $3 million for weather damage at one of our facilities in Asia.
We do however expect to recoup the full amount of the damages through insurance before the end of the calendar year and we expect our full year results for the JV to be within our prior guidance of adjusted -- for adjusted net income.
Please remember that we closed on the JV at the end of February so you'll need to adjust our guidance to 10 months.
Shifting to liquidity.
As of June 30 we had total liquidity of $637 million compared to $846 million a year ago.
While our current level is lower than last year our cash and liquidity position continues to build and I feel that our liquidity position is acceptable given the investment that we made into USG Boral and where we are in the recovery.
With regards to capital expenditures we gave you an estimate at the beginning of the year for CapEx to be about $145 million.
However as you would expect we manage our CapEx with some flexibility so that we can adjust these investments based on market conditions.
Because the market has lagged our expectations over the first 6 months we are being disciplined with our capital allocation and are adjusting our annual plan for capital expenditures downward by about $15 million.
We remain committed to organically delevering our balance sheet.
We have a $59 million bullet payment due in August of this year which we will pay off with cash on our balance sheet.
I believe that the cash generation capabilities of this business are strong especially as we get further into the cycle and I believe that we will generate more than enough cash to pay down our debt obligations and organically delever the balance sheet as we work towards our target leverage ratio of 1.5 to 2x debt-to-EBITDA at the mid-cycle.
At this time I'll turn the call back to you Jim.
Thank you Matt.
I know there was a lot of information on the segments but hopefully that clarified some of the questions you may have on it.
And obviously we'll be able to answer your questions in a few minutes.
But before we do that I would like to take a couple of minutes and give you our point of view of the market going forward and kind of where we are at this point.
During the second quarter as I mentioned the pace of the industry shipments lagged our expectations.
However we do believe the overall opportunity is going to improve as the year in 2014 unfolds and going to be better obviously than last year but at a slightly slower pace than we expected really early this year.
We project demand to increase in the second half and into 2015 as our end-use markets will continue to improve.
If you look at the individual markets.
First on the residential side we did see some slight signs of improvement as the quarter unfolded.
Each month during the quarter the rate of housing starts increased compared to prior year.
We do remain confident in the residential recovery and believe the overall demographics like population growth and pent-up demand point to a more robust but longer-term recovery in residential.
If you look at repair and remodel which we've talked about in the past is about 50% of our sales and a key contributor to our performance.
We start -- residential R&amp;R in the quarter improved despite normal seasonal softness that we see from a lot of our large home center customers.
We expect a pickup in residential R&amp;R in the third quarter.
This will be driven by positive seasonality in our customer base and continued improvement in the market.
The other side of R&amp;R is commercial R&amp;R which is especially important to both L&amp;W and our Ceilings business.
The macros show signs of modest improvement.
While the commercial R&amp;R continues to deliver positive growth this improvement we're seeing is very uneven.
Turning to new commercial.
We see some very modest second half recovery but with uneven improvement both by commercial segment and geographics.
The Architectural Billing Index continues to be very mixed.
During the quarter 2 out of 3 months were positive.
But if you look at the last 8 months only 4 of those have been positive.
This is one indication of the choppiness in the market but we still believe the commercial business is still going to have some choppiness through the remainder of the year.
The first part of the year the opportunity we saw it as basically flat but I will say we're seeing some slight green shoots in our business on the commercial business -- on the commercial segment.
Notably during the second quarter we saw an 11% 11% sequential increase in our steel sales at L&amp;W.
And this is really an important leading indicator for us because steel is shipped very early in a commercial job and we feel that this indicates improvement for some of the other USG products wallboard particularly ceiling tile which has about an 18-month lag but we're starting to see some slight signs in this market.
While we expect uneven improvement in the commercial opportunity we expect it to continue for at least the balance of the year but we believe the modest strengthening that we'll see there will lead to a better market in 2015 in the commercial segment.
I want to reiterate we remain confident that the overall long-term recovery is intact but at a slower pace of shipments through the 6 months it's going to make it difficult for us to reach our overall wallboard expectations that we set at the beginning of the year for 2014.
We feel that our volume is going to continue to improve on wallboard as the year unfolds and the overall U.S.
wallboard industry we feel is still going to reach an annual run rate -- and I want to reiterate the run rate of 23 billion feet in shipments in the second half of the year.
So with that I'd like to -- that's kind of a recap of the market and where the quarter ended up and our look for the rest of the year.
And I'd like to open up the call for questions for our team.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Robert Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you give us a little bit more granularity on what's going on in the Ceiling business from a volume perspective? It looks like you have some negative volumes in ceilings.
And why there is such a big disparity between wallboard shipments and ceiling trends.
Yes thanks Bob.
Obviously as Matt said on the Ceilings business we're heavily weighted to the commercial business.
80% 85% is either new commercial or commercial repair and remodel.
So that market's been very choppy where the wallboard business obviously has a bigger footprint in residential.
The Ceilings business if you look at volumes from the first quarter both grid and tile volumes were up.
Grid volumes were up almost 15%.
So we did see some great sequential volume from a very -- we had a terrible first quarter because of winter.
So we think the Ceilings business is going to continue to have a great return.
The top line is still going to be a little spotty because of this choppiness we see in the commercial business.
We're focused on the high end of ceilings.
We just put an expansion in our Cloquet Minnesota plant which focuses on high-margin products.
And we feel that with our industry-leading grid we're going to continue to deliver the results that we have through this recession.
They're really unrelated on what we look at the end of the year or the second half of the year because of the lag.
I talked about the steel sales that we're seeing an increase at L&amp;W which gives us a leading indicator that there's some green shoots.
But ceilings won't be hitting those jobs for maybe 18 months because they come in very late in the season.
So we think Bob the second half for wallboard opportunity is going to be better than the first half.
It's going to be better than last year.
And we feel 2015 from an opportunity for wallboard is -- 2015 is going to be better than 2014.
It's a slow grind up but we're very positive.
For every 100 000 housing starts there's about 800 million feet of wallboard opportunity.
And if you look at commercial for every 10% change in commercial is about 1% on demand.
So they're very unrelated but we think what's great about having ceilings and wallboard we package that solution together so we can get an entire USG job.
Turning to ceilings also the USG Boral team is really excited about having ceilings in that portfolio.
This will allow us to continue to grow that portfolio in that part of the world as I said with not only plasterboard but having ceilings along with those commercial jobs.
So we are cautiously optimistic in the second half but the volumes are going to be better.
And I think we're going to end up the year much better than we did in the first half.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I have a question regarding your commentary about the -- about your wallboard sales.
I think you indicated in your prepared remarks that they were -- volumes were up 3% and you sort of gave some geographic and channel mix factors which you think caused you to -- I thought you said underperform the industry.
But then you also said that you felt your market share was pretty flat over the last 6 months.
So I was just wondering if you could comment a little bit more in detail about the different channel segmentation how they performed and your overall comment -- how you feel about market share.
Yes if you look at -- our wallboard volume from the first quarter which we talked about it last -- 3 months ago was weather-related.
Our volume was up from the first quarter about 15%.
We feel that we're in good shape.
It's very similar to what happened last year if you look at where we are versus the industry.
We're very heavily weighted on the segments to the big-box retailers the home improvement.
They typically go into lawn and garden in the second quarter.
They go back into building materials mid-third quarter after Labor Day.
Also Matt had mentioned some of the geographic areas where we have a bigger footprint with our customers.
Those regions did not come back as quickly as -- it wasn't as strong as some of the other regions.
So really if you look at where we were last year it really follows the same trend.
And we're always balancing.
We're balancing price and volume.
And market share we're very comfortable with.
This is about maximizing our profitability with our customers and we're growing with them.
So we're very happy where we are this quarter on wallboard volume.
Our next question comes from Jim Barrett from CL King &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim can you give us some sense -- and I may have missed it the USG Boral JV it sounds like you're making some good progress there.
Can you give us a sense as to what the year-over-year delta has been for revenues and operating income for that business? We -- if you look at it historically they've been growing about 7% on the top line.
And we gave some guidance which as you know we typically don't do when we came -- when we introduced the JV that we feel that our share of the earnings this year will be anywhere between $35 million and $40 million.
And we're on -- as Matt said we're on pace to do that.
We expect about $50 million in synergies within the next 3 years of our technology rollout.
And if you just -- directionally if you want to look at that about 40% of that will come from revenue growth and another say 30% 35% will come from cost savings and then the remainder will come from putting the adjacent products like DUROCK and ceiling tile into the mix.
So Jim we're really excited about the rollout of our technology and putting the USG production systems in.
And just to remind everyone you're talking about 12 countries but you're also looking at 24 25 manufacturing plants.
And our team our USG technical team has just done a remarkable job level setting those plants.
As I said we're months ahead of schedule.
The exception -- the acceptance of the USG system into the Boral plants has been unbelievable.
In fact we were with the teams this week.
And we're really pleased with where we are at this point.
It's very early and -- but I think this is a really important part of the USG portfolio.
We're talking about -- here in the United States commercial business is going to be choppy.
Residential is growing but everyone has a different opinion on where that's going to be.
And you put this fast-growing business and you hook this into the USG portfolio.
This really helps us diversify the earnings and it will really assist us going forward when there's different points to the cycle geographically.
So we're very excited about it Jim.
It's something we've done before.
This isn't new for us the technology rollout.
And they have a really strong market share in that part of the world.
If you look at their overall market share it's about 40%.
So they've been doing things really well and everything we put in there is going to be additive.
So we're very excited.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie.
On L&amp;W supply you've done a good job restructuring the business this cycle.
However given the same-store sales growth you mentioned the 6% plus I would think there'd be a positive mix from the commercial growth that you called out I'm surprised that the incrementals were only 12%.
Can you give us some color in terms of what impacted that and what we should expect longer term in terms of the incremental margins in this business? Yes.
This is Matt Hilzinger.
Look we've been very pleased with what Brendan and his team have been able to do on L&amp;W.
When you think about -- and I think Jim has talked about this in the past.
We've been able to lower the breakeven of that business.
Back in '07 or '08 it took about $500 million of sales a quarter to break even.
We can do it in about $300 million now.
So there's been a substantial improvement in terms of the leverage that that business has.
I think we do need to get more commercial to drive -- we need to get more throughput through those centers in order to really drive profitability.
We really believe that when you look at -- as commercial comes back that we will be able to outperform the historical margin performance of that business at all points in the cycle.
And so we're obviously outperforming that cycle now given the sales that we had and we would expect that to continue as we see commercial come back.
Our next caller is from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> My question is on the regional variances that you talked about.
I think everyone was in agreement in the first quarter that weather was a big overhang on demand and being able to ship and different factors you guys spent a lot of time on in the first quarter.
And I think you said you didn't really see the acceleration in activity particularly in the northern regions in the second quarter.
And just wondering as you talk to customers if you have any thoughts as to why that might be given that it was seemingly a pretty clear impact in the first quarter.
Yes.
It's Matt Hilzinger.
Clearly the Northeast has been a big part of our business.
We have great customers up there but it's just been a little bit slower both on kind of the resi and on the nonresi side.
And we just haven't seen it.
And we were a little surprised that we didn't see the snapback in the weather-affected states.
I think a lot of people were.
But clearly that was something that we were expecting to come back and it just -- it didn't come back as clearly as we thought it would.
But if you take a look at some of the -- even the housing data now each month over the last quarter it's gotten a little better.
And as Jim said we're starting to see some leading indicators in commercial.
And the Northeast continues to be a really strong area for us and we would expect that to bounce back.
So we're going to continue to do the things that we need to do here and control the things that we can control.
And I think we had as Jim said just a great quarter.
It's the most profitable quarter we've had since 2007.
We feel very good about the performance this year.
And just to add on Matt's comments we saw the regional business very strong in Texas California and Florida.
Those were very strong areas.
We have different positions in each one of those areas as we're lined up with our strategic customers.
So those were -- some of our customers in some of the busy areas weren't -- they were not as busy.
They just did not get the work.
And not every one of our customers gets every job.
If you look of the Mid-Atlantic states those were sluggish.
There was a lot of -- a lot of rain affected our business there and our customers' business.
And what's -- this is really the first time that we've looked at the geographics in the United States and there aren't any weak areas.
We have some sluggish areas but if you -- as Matt said if you look at year-on-year and we have to keep this in perspective.
This is not a quarter-by-quarter business.
This is -- we're looking at relative improvement in all categories.
And still a gypsum industry shipment that they are shipping at very -- we're still shipping -- we're talking about a run rate at 23 billion.
That's a run rate.
And we're still shipping at some -- at a very low demand.
So we're crawling back from this.
We're very pleased with the results.
And we're going to still see a lot of regional differences here.
This is a regional business.
And it's really where we're partnered up with customers.
We think we have some of the best customers in the industry.
And some of them right now it's not their season.
So we are very optimistic that we're on the right track and we just need a little more help from overall demand.
LLC</strong> And just to clarify Jim on that last point for California Texas Florida.
Did you say that it was accelerating and it was strong there or that it wasn't? I'm a little confused.
Strong strong.
California Texas Florida strong.
Our next question comes from Eli Hackel from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to touch on ceilings for a second and pricing power in the segment which historically has been very strong.
Do you think pricing power remains as strong as it was? You've put a bunch of price increases in the past couple of years.
Are you getting any more pushback on recent price increases? And then just on the steel just a -- steel volume just a clarification is that 11% dollars or is it volume? And if it's sequentially can you just give what the year-over-year volume change was? Yes.
On -- you slipped 2 questions in there.
I thought that was pretty good.
Those are 2 good questions.
The first on ceilings.
What we really do on -- the key on ceilings is really the grid business.
We look at the overall futures of raw steel and we have a wonderful strategic sourcing group that we have a look on steel 6 to 12 months ahead.
So we have done a pretty good job over the last couple of years of -- where we see the steel -- the overall Steel Index going up is getting our price increase to our customers in the market so we don't have margin compression.
There have been a couple of quarters that we didn't do that good of a job but we're getting pretty good at that.
On ceilings it's really selling the value add of the higher end of the ceilings.
Right now about 35% to 40% of our portfolio is at the higher-end higher-margin higher-performing ceilings which tends to get a higher price in the market.
So a lot of what you'll see is product mix and where you see the price is going up.
So it's -- on ceilings a lot of it has to do with steel and your steel purchases.
Turning to L&amp;W that 11% was dollars.
And that was a year-on-year comparison.
And we're also seeing some sequential increases from the first quarter.
Actually the 11% was from the first quarter.
But we're also seeing year-on-year.
Also on L&amp;W commercial insulation commercial EIFS which is the exterior interior -- exterior insulation finish system a la stucco we're seeing double-digit increases sequentially from the first quarter there as well.
So as I said the commercial market is still choppy.
But what's great about having L&amp;W it gives us some early kind of early signs of what's coming.
And we're starting to see a little bit of green shoots there.
So to summarize ceilings price improvement we still are going to stay ahead of any type of steel increases.
We're going to get value for our high-end products.
And we had as I said in my prepared comments we had price increases in ceiling tile and grid in the second quarter.
Our next question comes from Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Your wallboard prices were up sequentially which is quite encouraging.
But there's been chatter there's capacity coming back online in some of the market -- in California and Texas and price competition has picked up.
Are you seeing any of that in the marketplace? On the pricing it was -- basically yes.
I think what's good about having our one price for the year it didn't really change that much from the first quarter.
As we said in the past it may change a little because of shipping and freight rates.
But we're very happy.
And our customers are very happy with our pricing strategy.
And it clarifies a lot of things for them.
And it has -- it allows them to go out and get additional work.
We are not as Matt said we're still running -- overall capacity utilization is still in the high-50s for us.
Effective capacity is 75-ish.
We have no plans to add capacity.
And we have not heard of any capacity being added in the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But your pricing is pretty stable as what you see right now in the marketplace.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Michael Dahl from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the comments in the prepared remarks about dialing back the CapEx spend for the year.
And wondering if you could give a little more color on what specific projects that would be and how we should think about the impact to operations as a result.
This is Matt Hilzinger.
Yes so you would expect as we just -- as we saw things lag a little bit we've dialed back a little bit on CapEx.
And we didn't point it out but our SG&amp;A number is almost flat with last year so -- or last quarter.
So we feel pretty good about how we're managing kind of capital and expenses of the business.
In fact we feel very good about it.
But on capital there's always some discretionary items that we look at each year.
And there's some projects specifically that we think are good projects but they require a little bit more work on it a little bit more engineering work and some things in the plants that we just felt that was best to defer into next year.
And so there's some deferral on that.
There's also some things that as we looked at that we thought were important at the beginning of the year that we just don't need to do.
There's some IT projects some discretionary things that we've pulled back.
So there's not anything here that we think impacts our ability to continue to invest and grow in the business.
These are just some discretionary things that we think are prudent to kind of pull back.
And some of them we've canceled.
And some of them we deferred.
But as you would expect we're going to manage the capital pretty tightly.
Our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson from Thompson Research.
LLC</strong> This is Wenjun sitting in for Kathryn.
So our survey work has consistently pointed to bottlenecks with logistics that slow volumes so for long-haul trucks to rails.
Have you seen a similar impact to your business? And if yes what are you doing to counterbalance this situation? Can you -- I wasn't sure if you came through as clear as possible your microphone.
Could you please repeat the first part of that? I wasn't sure if I got it and I want to make sure I answer your question accurately.
LLC</strong> Sure sure.
So our survey work has pointed to bottlenecks with logistics which slow up some volume that transport to customers.
So if you have -- my question is if you have seen a similar impact to your business from the logistic part the difficulties? If yes what are you doing to counterbalance this situation? No we have not.
And let me just elaborate on that.
We haven't seen any bottlenecks.
We did see some in the first quarter which I think the entire industry did because of the terrible weather we had.
A lot of the truck traffic had -- was not been able to bring raw materials or ship products.
Then it went to the rail.
The rail was then overburdened because of everyone moving to truck traffic.
But that was a severe winter weather.
We have a very extensive network optimization program.
We have a program that we have contract carriers that are dedicated to supporting our products.
Our typical shipping area is 350 miles and we have no bottlenecks nor see any.
Our next question comes from Al Kaschalk from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Jim you talked quite a bit about the choppiness in commercial.
I was hoping you could give us some insight on maybe some of the puts and takes of where you've seen some improvements or maybe some declines on specific either industry or customers from the beginning of this year to say current.
You did comment about steel and that benefit would be in '15.
But I was hoping that you could maybe bridge from the earlier comments in 2014 to where we stand today that support the growth going forward.
Yes.
Thank you.
On the commercial market it's -- there's been a lot of work I think by everyone looking at housing starts and how low they went.
But it's just -- if you look at the commercial opportunity you had some very significant downdrafts of commercial being down 35% and 40%.
If you look at going forward -- and really the best areas the highest-growth areas that we have seen for commercial have been education retail and office.
Now those are coming from some very low base but those are the areas that we're seeing over the last couple of years but more importantly as we see going forward are going to have a little bit of growth.
If you look at retail that's the largest segment of nonresidential for our business.
Education would be the second-largest and office would be third.
If you look at health facilities very anemic.
Obviously public government is really anemic.
And you're seeing a little bit of growth in hotels.
So again it's -- we look at -- vacancy rates is one thing we look at.
Vacancy rates have improved slightly in the last 12 months.
I think they've come down about 1 point.
You look at jobs.
There's a lot of things.
The architectural index has been spotty.
So it's still a very choppy area.
And just to remind you the overall new commercial business for USG is about 25%.
If you look at the entire portfolio it's about 25% of our business.
25% plus or minus is residential and then 50% is broken down on the repair and remodel.
So those are -- that's kind of -- we still are -- we're still coming from a low base.
We think that the second half in commercial is going to be still single digit.
First half was flat and it's still a very very choppy and uneven market.
Research Division</strong> Did -- have you commented -- sorry just a follow-up on this.
You know what we have a few people in queue.
And I don't mean to cut you off Al but I'm trying to get to everybody here.
And there's a lot of interest today to hear about our wonderful results.
So if we can come back to you that would be great.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow Research.
I'm just wondering if you could provide a bit more context around your comment that you expect the wallboard industry to get to a 23 billion square foot run rate sometime in the second half of the year.
Can you provide a little bit more color? Do you think this could be a third quarter or fourth quarter event? And maybe what kind of housing demand is embedded in this assumption? Yes.
If you look at -- we're looking at this Garik more in the third quarter.
As I said earlier this is where a lot of our large home center customers come back into the market.
They get out of lawn and garden building materials becomes a focus.
We have really -- historically we've looked at from about late August Labor Day through really Thanksgiving is a really busy time.
So we're really focused on the residential repair and remodel.
We also -- we don't have any crazy housing numbers.
I mean we have the lag of some solid year-on-year increases in this quarter.
So we had 3 to 3.5 months on that.
We're still at a housing start number for the year of 1 million and change.
So nothing -- no big change there.
And a little bit of this commercial coming back from flat market in the first quarter or first half up to some single digits in the second half.
But it's really going to be driven by the repair and remodel.
That's what we're working on.
And again I just want to reiterate.
That's a run rate of 23 billion for the industry.
We are not projecting that's where we're going to end up at the year.
Beginning of the year we thought that's where it was going to be.
But we're still in probably at the 22-ish billion -- 22.5 billion end of the year range.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Kind of building on the last question.
Your discussion of the 23 billion run rate would imply some pretty healthy volume increases year-over-year in the second half in wallboard.
My question more is on inventory.
Have you built inventory in expectation of that? Or is that something you could hit with normal production? Yes.
No we can hit it with normal production.
Our plants are running really well.
Our efficiencies are at all-time levels.
And my hat's off to our manufacturing team that has really just run this network like a well-oiled machine.
As you know we're a nationwide player so we have to -- we run our network as one but there are different regional differences.
So no inventory buildup.
We have a great forecasting system with both L&amp;W and our customers.
We're tied in from a forecasting with some of our large retail customers.
So we have a pretty good view of what's coming.
And we really want to balance our working capital as well.
And we do focus on inventory.
So we aren't seeing any build and we think we'll be able to service our customers.
One of the things that we do track is on-time delivery.
And our on-time delivery with our customers has been at historical highs.
And we'll be able to -- we do have some regions that were extremely busy.
I mentioned some of the regions in the earlier question.
The Texas market is very busy.
And our capacity utilization is extremely high there.
But what's great about being a nationwide player is we can balance our network so you don't have to add capacity somewhere.
We can use capacity from other plants.
So no inventory build and we want to balance -- we want to keep an eye on our working capital.
Our last question comes from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
Could you give us a little color on gypsum usage you're seeing in the multifamily versus the single-family on the residential side? Well the multifamily over the last year has really been the shining star there.
And we think -- we do -- we look at housing starts as a whole.
It doesn't really mean a big difference to us.
There's a little bit of less consumption on the multifamily.
But what it also does multifamily helps us with L&amp;W.
L&amp;W has a fairly large footprint when you look at multifamily and high-rise residential construction because there's fewer dealers and distributors that can stock a 30-story condominium building.
So it does use a little less product on wallboard but it could use steel which L&amp;W sells.
It probably has some acoustical tile in the lobbies of the building.
So we look at housing starts as a whole.
As I said earlier for every 100 000 additional housing starts is about 800 million feet of wallboard.
And when we say that multifamily is in that calculation.
Okay.
And so it's close to a 1:1 relationship? Yes it's not anything significant that's going to change your model.
Okay.
We appreciate your questions and I know there were quite a few people that were interested in the results and I appreciate everyone keeping it to one question so we can get through most of the interest that we had this morning.
As we said earlier for the second quarter we had our best operating results in 7 years.
And I think that's a big accomplishment for all the men and women throughout USG and USG Boral.
This has been a phenomenal run that we have.
We still have a lot of work to do.
But just to put it in perspective it's been 7 long years.
And we did this on 2/3 of the market opportunity.
I just want to reiterate that.
Best operating results in 7 years on 2/3 of the opportunity.
And as we've talked in previous calls we've done this in areas -- in focus areas that we can control.
It's continuing as we like to say our best-in-class initiatives in our safety performance our customer satisfaction our innovation and as we've been weaving into the comments today and we will continue to do this is is focusing on lowering our breakeven.
We are very confident that the recovery is intact but we do feel that it will be a longer slower recovery than we've seen in previous cycles.
While we can't control the pace of the recovery we can remain and we will remain focused on maximizing the leverage we've driven into this business and continuing to execute on the 3 pillars we talked about this morning of our strategy.
As always we really appreciate your time and your interest in USG and we thank you for spending the last hour with us.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the USG Third Quarter Results Conference Call.
My name is Daniel and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ken Banas.
Ken you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call and Live Webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumptions of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
In addition please refer to our earnings press release and presentation slides for disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures used when discussing our results and outlook.
With me today to discuss our results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the corporation and the business segments.
We will then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
[Operator Instructions] Jim? Thank you Ken and good morning.
I appreciate everyone calling in at this earlier time of this quarter.
Before I begin my comments on the quarter I first want to provide some thoughts on the announcement this morning that we have reached an agreement in principle to settle the U.S.
antitrust lawsuits regarding wallboard pricing.
It is very disappointing to settle a lawsuit when you have strongly believed that you've done nothing wrong.
However we have to be realistic about the cost of defending this lawsuit for several more years and the potential risk that it may create for USG.
Under the U.S.
antitrust system even a company that is confident that it did nothing wrong faces the risk of triple damages and joint and several liability potentially being liable for damages for hundreds of millions of dollars.
This risk makes settlement as distasteful as it is a responsible choice.
Given these circumstances we've decided that it's in the best interest of the company our employees and our customers as well as our shareholders to settle these lawsuits.
We expect this settlement to be paid within the next 12 months and we've taken the charge in the third quarter.
Despite this we expect this settlement will not divert us from our objective of delevering our balance sheet and working towards investment-grade metrics that we've talked to you about over our planning horizon.
We strongly believe that the best way to continue to build on the recovery is to settle this case and turn our attention to serving our customers and profitably growing our business.
We've always acted with the highest integrity with respect to our pricing and selling policies.
Let me be perfectly clear with you today.
We strongly believe we have done nothing wrong.
Our decisions on price and our pricing policies are made independently and in the best interests of our business and our customers.
Now I'd like to focus on our business.
And quite frankly I'd like to focus on the solid performance we had during the third quarter.
During the third quarter we delivered the strongest adjusted EBITDA since 2006 when quarterly shipments were about 1 billion square feet higher.
Each of our businesses improved adjusted operating profit from a year ago led by our Ceilings business which generated record operating profit; and our USG Boral joint venture which delivered its best quarter since the inception.
We are executing on each of our 3 pillars of our Plan to Win and I'm confident in our strategy.
Although we expect next year to be better than this year the pace of the recovery continues to lag our expectations and we expect the modest pace to continue.
As a result of this modest pace we are permanently closing approximately 650 million square feet of our wallboard capacity because we no longer believe this volume will be needed especially with our current network running at record efficiencies.
Matt will give you some further detail regarding this impairment.
But as you would expect we are constantly evaluating our network as we've talked to you in the past and we are always looking at ways to optimize our cost structure.
Now I'd like to discuss the quarterly performances of each one of our businesses.
In our Gypsum business we generated our 13th consecutive quarter of improved year-over-year results.
The primary driver of the performance continues to be wallboard margin which drove $15 million in incremental profitability.
Wallboard quarterly volume was modest.
But as we projected last quarter the industry did reach a 23 billion foot run rate at times during the quarter.
The other half of the U.S.
Gypsum business also contributed to our improved results.
Our surfaces and our substrate businesses which both have leading market shares and very strong brands generated both top and bottom line growth during the quarter.
Our performance was led by Joint Treatment which improved its margins by 6% primarily related to price and volume improvement but was offset with some higher inflation on raw materials.
Our Ceilings business as I mentioned earlier delivered the strongest quarterly results in the history of the company.
Our improved performance was driven by a combination of product mix and price.
Quarterly volumes were up slightly compared to 2013 which is still a reflection of the choppy recovery that we've been talking about in the commercial market.
However despite being levered to this persistently soft commercial market our Ceilings business continues to drive strong returns on invested capital through high-end performance products margin expansion and a focus on commercial repair and remodel.
And while we expect the choppiness in the commercial market to continue our Ceilings business is well positioned to benefit as this opportunity recovers.
In our Distribution business we generated our sixth consecutive quarter of positive operating results.
Since the downturn as we've talked about in the past we've made major changes in this business structurally lowering our cost refocusing on the commercial contractor and leveraging our scale.
While we are early in the commercial recovery the incremental margins and return on invested capital still remain below our expectations.
While velocity will be the most important driver of future profitability we will continue to leverage our combined capabilities of the business as we grow with the commercial market recovery.
In the third quarter USG Boral had a strong performance and I continue to be very pleased with the progress.
Results were driven by wallboard margins and volume as well as growth in adjacent products like ceiling tile and joint treatment.
The adjacent products focus which represents about 25% of the expected synergies that we've talked about in previous quarters is driving early results and we expect continued growth.
Now I'd like to shift for a few minutes to talk about our strategy.
The 3 pillars of our Plan to Win: strengthen the core diversify our earnings and differentiate through innovation continue to drive our performance.
Our commitment to strengthening the core can be seen in our Ceilings results.
Despite volume that remains well below historic averages and the soft commercial market that we've been talking about we continue to leverage strong operating results in our Ceilings segment.
Let me put in perspective.
We generated 22% operating margins during the third quarter compared to peak operating margins of 10% when we had almost 2x the commercial opportunity.
Although Ceilings is generating record operating results I feel that we will continue to grow the business over the long term.
We've made a major shift towards higher-end performing high-margin products and we've made key investments in this business to capitalize on this trend.
I believe the shift towards premium products coupled with our great customer relationships with customers that purchase both wallboard and ceilings will continue to enable us to improve on our already strong performance of our Ceilings business.
Diversifying our earnings through product adjacencies and geographic expansions is the second pillar and USG Boral is a key component.
During the quarter we completed the first phase of our technology rollout.
It was ahead of schedule and it was under budget.
This phase included the introduction of UltraLight technologies in major markets in Australia South Korea Thailand and Indonesia.
UltraLight represents a major step change compared to the products currently available in these markets and we've priced it as a premium product in each one of these markets.
These high humidity areas have never had a product that doesn't sag until the introduction of UltraLight.
Across the rest of the market we began implementing the USG manufacturing systems and have started introducing our classic technology in these other markets as well.
Not all the markets in the Far East will have UltraLight but our classic technology will serve as a significant upgrade to the current product offering in each one of these markets for our customers.
The third pillar of our strategy is differentiating through innovation.
One example I'd like to highlight for you this morning is our SECUROCK roof board products.
Our innovative roofing panels repurpose the existing technology that we have in Glass-Mat FIBEROCK and DUROCK products to create a new line of products that can be used in flat commercial roofing.
This has enabled us to enter a large market that was previously dominated by a single competitor.
And while we've seen double-digit growth since the introduction of our roofing business we believe that there's significant upside in this business both domestically and internationally.
In fact the commercial roofing business can be a $100 million business for us in the next few years.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Matt who's going to give you some greater detail on the financial results for the quarter.
Matt? Thanks Jim.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'll take you through our third quarter results and provide some additional details to each of our business segments.
During the third quarter net sales were $972 million up 5% from the third quarter of last year.
We recorded a GAAP net loss of $12 million compared to a GAAP net income of $23 million in the third quarter of 2013.
On an adjusted basis our net income was $66 million with earnings per diluted share of $0.44 which compares to adjusted net income of $24 million and earnings per diluted share of $0.22 last year.
This year's adjusted earnings excludes both a $30 million charge associated with the impairment of several of our idled plant assets which I'll discuss in a moment; and the $48 million charge associated with the lawsuit settlement that Jim discussed earlier.
Adjusted operating profit in the third quarter of the year including our share of the adjusted net income from our joint venture USG Boral Building Products was $112 million compared to adjusted operating profit of $76 million last year.
Our adjusted EBITDA including results from USG Boral was $165 million during the quarter our highest quarterly adjusted EBITDA in nearly 8 years and almost 40% higher than the third quarter of last year.
Before I move into my comments on segments I want to discuss a change that we are making to our disclosures going forward.
In an effort to generate value for all our stakeholders of USG we will be changing the way we disclose and discuss wallboard price and volume.
We will continue to have individual conversations with our customers on wallboard pricing decisions.
We will also continue our long-standing practice of not providing commentary on prospective wallboard pricing.
From a disclosure standpoint starting next quarter we will no longer provide specific data on our historical wallboard pricing and volumes but we will continue to provide qualitative commentary as well as the financial impact of the changes in wallboard price and volume in our quarterly earnings calls such as today as well as in our 10-K and 10-Qs as we do for all of our other product categories.
This change will bring our conversation on wallboard in line with all our other disclosures on all other USG products.
While this may provide some degree of frustration in the short term we believe this will generate value over the -- over time.
Now let's turn to our quarterly business performances.
In our Gypsum segment sales increased by 7% to $621 million for the quarter with adjusted operating profit of $90 million compared to $76 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Wallboard results were a primary driver of our year-on-year improvement with pricing contributing $15 million and volume adding an additional $2 million.
Wallboard costs were flat compared to the third quarter of last year.
Our team did a great job offsetting the inflationary pressures that we saw during the third quarter but I know that we won't be able to fully offset inflation every quarter and I expect to see more inflation in virtually every input cost as we enter 2015.
Third quarter results were also positively impacted by better operating profit contribution from our shipping business GTL which added an incremental $5 million primarily attributable to timing.
As I've previously said I expect GTL's annualized earnings of about $20 million to be flat year-over-year so I anticipate GTL's fourth quarter profitability to be lower than the fourth quarter of 2013.
As we turn to pricing I want to reiterate that after this quarter we will no longer provide specific disclosures on our wallboard price and volume.
However during the third quarter of this year our blended wallboard price was just under $165 per thousand square feet.
While wallboard price decreased slightly from the second quarter we have always said that there can be fluctuations due to exports customer and product mix freight and regionality.
Our U.S.
domestic price which excludes sales to foreign customers was effectively flat at $173 or 8% higher than a year ago.
In our U.S.
wallboard business during the third quarter we shipped 1.4 billion square feet an increase of 2% compared to the prior year.
Despite lower quarterly volumes compared to the industry our year-to-date share remains essentially flat.
Also while we reached a 23 billion square foot run rate at times during the quarter it is unclear how seasonality pre-buy and pace will impact the fourth quarter.
Nonetheless we believe that we have the right mix of channel and customers to deliver on our price and volume strategy.
Shifting to capacity.
Our wallboard effective capacity utilization was 82% during the quarter.
And at this time we still feel that we have the right staffing levels at our plants to meet current and near-term demand.
On a nameplate basis our capacity utilization rate was 58% during the quarter.
And as reflected in the $30 million asset impairment charge this quarter we impaired about 650 million square feet of previously idled wallboard capacity.
Since we began idling plants in 2007 we have continuously evaluated USG's capacity needs relative to our long-term demand assumptions.
Although industry and economic factors continue to improve and I believe that the overall economic recovery is very much intact volumes are improving at a slower pace than what was expected.
As a result we have reconsidered the future utilization of both our idled production lines and some preconstruction work on plant sites that began before the downturn.
Since we no longer believe that the additional volume from those previously idled facilities will be needed within our planning horizon we recorded this asset impairment charge.
As we sit today with our current active network of plants we have just over 4 billion square feet of total excess annual capacity.
In fact we have sufficient excess capacity run-up too and will be on the historical mid-cycle averages of about 1.5 million housing starts and 1.3 billion square feet of commercial starts without adding additional capacity.
And while we do not need to add physical capacity for the foreseeable future as our shareholders should expect we constantly analyze our network.
As we develop opportunities for organic growth we may look to address some geographical opportunities in our growing specialty product offering.
Although this could have an impact on capacity any additional refurbishment would be for very specific specialty products.
Turning to our Ceilings business.
As Jim said we generated record operating results during the third quarter.
Our adjusted operating profit of $30 million on the $137 million in sales this year compares to $23 million on $146 million in sales last year.
As shown on Slide 13 in our presentation our quarterly Ceilings revenues are shown as lower than last year due to the contribution of certain USG International ceiling assets into our USG Boral joint venture.
Sales connected to those assets are now included in the JV and not in our new Ceilings segment.
Excluding those sales from the prior year period this year's third quarter sales are actually $4 million higher than the comparable adjusted sales from the third quarter of 2013.
Our year-over-year operating profit improvement was driven by $4 million in both mix and pricing which was partially offset by $2 million in higher cost.
Volumes were flat year-over-year which is a further reflection of the ongoing choppiness in our commercial end markets.
Moving to Distribution.
L&amp;W's net sales in the third quarter were $359 million with same-store sales increasing 8%.
During the quarter we recorded operating profit of $4 million compared to $3 million in the third quarter of last year.
In our USG Boral joint venture we had a terrific quarter.
Total sales were $286 million and we generated $34 million in total adjusted operating profit.
Our 50% portion of the JV's adjusted net income was $12 million.
Through the third quarter our portion of the JV's results remain within the range of our annualized adjusted net income guidance of $35 million to $45 million.
As a reminder USG Boral will only have 10 months of results this year due to the closing and commencement of the joint venture at the end of February.
Moving to the broader category of SG&amp;A expenses for the company.
Our third quarter expenses were $76 million compared to $8 million in last year's third quarter.
And on a year-to-date basis we are flat to last year.
Like last year's fourth quarter I expect our SG&amp;A to be higher due to project timing but I also expect our SG&amp;A expenses to be below our original guidance of $330 million to $340 million for the year.
This year we have found ways to offset inflation while still investing in organic growth innovative research and strategic IT investments.
Managing our cost has been and will continue to be of critical importance.
Lastly shifting to liquidity.
As of September 30 we had total liquidity of $631 million.
This month we renegotiated our asset-based revolving credit facility for another 5 years.
The new $450 million facility combines our $40 million Canadian and $400 million U.S.
facilities into 1 single facility that will save us about $2 million per year because of our improved credit position and current market pricing.
During the quarter we made a $59 million bullet payment using cash from our balance sheet.
I believe that our total liquidity position is adequate for this point in the recovery and I am confident that our liquidity position will continue to build.
With regard to the $48 million legal settlement we expect to pay this out of normal funds from operations.
I want to reiterate that we remain committed to organically delevering the balance sheet as we continue to work towards our target lever ratio of 1.5x to 2x debt to EBITDA at the mid-cycle.
I'd now like to turn this back to Jim.
Thank you Matt.
I'd like to take a couple of minutes before we go into Q&amp;A to discuss our view of the market.
As we mentioned earlier we believe the long-term recovery in our end use market remains intact although at a modest pace.
We mentioned last quarter we still expect the second half of this year to be stronger than the first half and we still believe that.
We also firmly believe that 2015 will be better than 2014 for the overall business.
Overall though it will be a longer slower recovery but our strategy is built to position our business for success with an elongated recovery.
Looking at the individual segments.
Starting with residential we saw signs of improvement both with our shipments and the macros each month during the third quarter.
Although we believe the residential recovery will be modest over the next few years the long-term demographics still indicate that there's pent-up demand for housing and we are optimistic that we will see continued residential growth over the next several years.
The repair and remodel market continues to be a key driver of our business.
In the residential R&amp;R market the macros are mostly positive during the quarter and we saw seasonal strengthening in our customer mix.
In commercial repair and remodel which is especially important to L&amp;W and our Ceilings business there's mixed data and the recovery continues to be very uneven.
New commercial construction demand as we've talked many times still remains choppy.
The ABI was positive during the quarter but has been mixed throughout the year.
And the Dodge Momentum Index which is a 12-month leading indicator of construction spending for commercial has shown some signs of improvement but the pace has fluctuated throughout the year.
In the USG side of the commercial business the data has also been mixed.
We talked about the Ceilings business with volumes being flat or up slightly.
And our steel sales of L&amp;W were up slightly which is a leading indicator to the recovery.
L&amp;W's wallboard business grew by 8% which as you know L&amp;W is heavily weighted to the commercial business but we believe this is a catch-up of some commercial jobs that were delayed earlier this year because of the bad weather.
While we continue to see that there's contractor backlogs we see some strengthening.
The macro data in our business still indicate choppiness in the commercial market.
Although the recovery in each one of our end markets continues to improve the pace has moderated especially with new construction.
However I still believe we will approach historic mid-cycle in each of our end markets in our planning horizon.
And while I think we'll have a slower longer recovery the trend remains positive and we are optimistic about our 2015 performance.
So with that I'd like to open it up for questions and operator it is back to you.
[Operator Instructions] And our very first question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie Capital.
You reported strong growth in the USG Interiors and the domestic business this quarter much better than we've seen from some of your peers.
Can you just help us understand the market growth rate you'd mentioned the flat to slightly up? I wasn't sure of the time period you were referring to just given the fact that you have very different comparisons in the fourth quarter compared to this quarter.
Yes.
We're really pleased with the Ceilings results.
And really the driver of that performance during the quarter was our focus on the higher-end high-performance products which have a higher margin.
Volumes are still flat up slightly and what we were talking about is third quarter versus third quarter of last year.
We did see some inflation in the business.
We have focused our Ceilings business really over the last 3 years on the commercial repair and remodel which has been a stronger market than new commercial.
So it's been kind of a combination of the high-performance products.
We invested in our Cloquet plants so we have additional capacity that we didn't have last year with our high-end products so that helped us during the quarter and a focus on the commercial repair and remodel.
Really the key is if you look at the overall commercial business we're still at some very historic lows.
So we're extremely pleased with the results of Ceilings.
But really this is a balance of volume and margin and this isn't a big top line growth at this point.
But we are optimistic about the future when the market returns.
And just for my follow-up can you clarify the capacity you're closing? Was that active or idled previously? That was idled capacity and we can follow up -- we're going to have some more disclosures on that.
And what we'd like to do we have a lot of people in queue here.
So I just want to reiterate we're trying to keep this to 1 question.
But yes that's idled capacity.
The next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a question regarding the settlement of the litigation.
I was curious if you could talk about it.
Was there anything specific about that particular case where -- which would make it difficult for example for persons in another location to bring up sort of a similar suit against you? Were there certain aspects of that case that were quite unique to that particular situation? As I stated earlier this was a very difficult decision for us.
Again to reiterate we did not violate the law and we did nothing wrong.
We made the decision to settle really solely based this on the significant financial risk of the U.S.
antitrust litigation.
As we mentioned you have the risk of triple damages you have joint and several liability you have defense cost and not to mention the consumption of management time and the distraction.
And our business is going really really well and these factors made the settlement really a responsible choice for the company and our shareholders.
So there wasn't 1 specific reason to do this.
We put it all into the -- into our decision-making process.
But again it was a tough decision for us because quite frankly we did nothing wrong.
So at this point what we'd like to do is put this behind us and move forward.
We had an excellent quarter operationally and I'd like to get the focus really back on the business and looking forward.
Our following question comes from Michael Dahl from Crédit Suisse.
This is Patrick Murray on for Mike.
I appreciate that you want to turn the focus back to the business in going forward.
But just kind of following up on Steve's does this settlement -- does this absolve you or indemnify you from future claims around this? And then tying into that if it impacts how you think about pricing -- any of your pricing strategies.
I know that you said that you're going to have a change in disclosure.
I'm not sure if that's directly related or not but any color on either of those would be great.
Yes.
Thank you.
That's a great question.
We're bringing our wallboard disclosures in line with the way we discuss all of our products.
If you -- using the example of joint treatment we talked about in the quarter of price volume and cost wallboard is less than 1/2 of the Gypsum segment's total sales and we feel it's appropriate to really provide consistent disclosures across all products.
One thing we have talked about we're far more than a wallboard company and we believe our past disclosures did put an emphasis on 1 part of our business.
So this had nothing to do with the lawsuit.
We feel that this is the best way to talk about the company as a whole.
And as we've said we're going to -- this would be the last quarter we'll be disclosing price and we'll be talking about the Gypsum segment as a margin which -- we'll talk about volume price and cost.
Our following question comes from Trey Grooms from Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Fairly nice margins on the Ceilings business.
Do you guys -- you mentioned mix and price focus on higher-margin sales.
I mean do you see this as a sustainable kind of margin here going forward? Or is there any reason why this mix and price situation would change any time soon? Trey we've had that question a couple of times over the last few years and I think everyone has been waiting for the Ceilings business to lag behind.
We've been -- if you look at what we've been through over 5 years the Ceilings business has really been the shining star.
The return on invested capital has been wonderful and even through this terrible commercial market.
So we redirected the Ceilings business a few years ago to commercial repair and remodel.
We got our best distribution in the market.
We feel that we have distributors that sell both wallboard and ceilings.
And what's great about our ceilings distributors they typically buy all the other USG products.
We've invested as I mentioned earlier in higher-end products.
We were sold out of our -- some of our high-end products at Cloquet and we made 1 investment last year which gave us some additional volume.
So it is a myriad of things that has taken effect over the last few years.
We just haven't had the top line growth.
We feel with a little wind at our back this is going to continue to be a nice business for us.
From a return standpoint the incrementals are very good and I don't see any reason why we won't continue the trend of our Ceilings business.
It's a great business for us and we're very optimistic about the future.
Our following question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow Research.
I have a question on Distribution.
You mentioned that you're disappointed in the incremental margins and the ROIC at this point in the cycle in that business.
Just wondering if you can maybe outline some actions that you can take from this point forward to improve on those metrics.
Or is it really just a function of waiting for velocity to tick up and then the flow-through will then follow? Yes it's a great question.
The -- there's been a lot of heavy lifting over the last couple of years.
If you recall the key was getting L&amp;W profitable which we've now had 6 consecutive quarters but the returns just aren't where they should be.
Our focus is really structurally lowering cost.
We've taken out 100 locations plus we've refocused to the commercial contractor which -- you have to think the residential recovery started way before any type of commercial recovery.
So there has been some areas of the market that we just don't play in.
So really the key to L&amp;W the hard work has been done.
Now we need some velocity.
We need some top-line velocity.
And that commercial business if you kind of trend where you think commercial is headed you can -- L&amp;W kind of follows in line with that.
If you look historically L&amp;W tends to -- when the market retracts tends to retract later.
Our manufacturing business tends to have an impact sooner than our Distribution business and it tends to lag on a recovery particularly this recovery when commercial is the #3 segment of recovery.
So a short answer to a very long long answer is it's velocity trend it with the commercial recovery.
A lot of the hard work has been done.
Some of those initiatives still have to go across 150 locations.
But we're really focused on mid and peak earnings.
If you look historically L&amp;W's mid-cycle returns have been around 5% peak returns.
We're just under 10%.
And with the cost reductions that we've taken over the last 3 to 5 years we're expecting those mid and peak returns to be better than it was historically.
Our following question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> I just had a question on wallboard capacity.
With these plants being permanently taken out of the network even with those that are idled it seems like you could probably almost double production from here but that's at the macro level.
And just wondering if -- as you look over the recovery in the next few years it would seem like you wouldn't have to bring any brick-and-mortar to market for quite a long time.
But maybe you could just elaborate if that's the right assumption or if there's geographic variances that might alter that.
Hey Dennis this is Matt Hilzinger.
I think you got it right.
And we've said for the last year 1.5 years that we really do have enough capacity.
In fact our total operating capacity right now is about 9.3 billion square feet.
We used to have about 2 billion square feet of idled capacity.
About 650 million of that got permanently closed.
So we've got a little bit of what I would say high-cost idled capacity still out there.
But again when we look out over the planning horizon we're very positive that things are going to continue to improve.
But there's still quite a bit of runway before we'd ever have to think about adding physical capacity.
And as I said in my remarks though I -- there may be some specialty products as Jim has talked about extensively all of our innovation and things to grow the business.
We've got some specialty products that are now out in the market and they're doing well and there may be a need at some point to do some additional manufacturing capacity around specialty products.
But when you're thinking about kind of wallboard and overall capacity we're set for the foreseeable future.
Our following question comes from Jim Barrett from CL King &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Matt this is related to the last question.
When we look forward over your planning cycle you did mention added capacity possibly in specialty products.
How should we think of capital expenditures relative to your current run rate for depreciation depletion and amortization? Yes.
Jim it's -- we manage our capital in kind of a total view.
We've clearly gotten some maintenance capital and we've got growth capital.
And we've said that's typically going to be somewhere between call it $130 million and $170 million.
This year we're at the lower end of that at the $130 million and we're still able to make a significant number of capital investments.
So I would think about this in terms of kind of that range and I think our annualized depreciation number is somewhere around $150 million.
But look we're going to continue to be prudent about how we spend our dollars.
Every dollar that we spend in capital has to provide a return and drive return on invested capital.
And so that's kind of the first thing.
And then the second is as we generate excess -- I'd say excess cash kind of free cash flow that's going to go to repaying down debt.
I mean we're absolutely committed to continuing to delever the company.
And so that's how I -- that's how we think about it Jim.
Our following question comes from Robert Wetenhall from RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is actually Collin filling in for Bob.
So you commented that the recovery in the end markets have lagged your expectations.
I was wondering if you could give us some more color surrounding your commercial end markets.
Like do you see certain sectors stronger or weaker than others? Yes.
The -- when we talk about lagging our expectations what we're referring to was how we looked at the market at the beginning of the year.
We thought the year was going to be a little stronger than it was.
What we're seeing with the commercial business the individual segments you see the hotel segment continues to be one of the bright spots in the recovery also office construction.
It's very regional.
We'd like to refer to it as the golden horseshoe.
Commercial is very strong for example in -- geographically in San Francisco Los Angeles.
You go through Texas and it's very very spotty.
So it's still very -- each segment is still high-single digits down to flat.
So it's a very choppy market.
So there aren't really any shining stars underneath this.
We feel that it's still a choppy recovery.
If you look at the overall commercial business it's probably still down 40% from the mean.
So we have a ways to go and we're focused really a lot on commercial repair and remodel to -- for both our L&amp;W business and our Ceilings business because new commercial is still at some historically low levels.
Our following question comes from Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> As you pointed out the recovery has been a bit more muted than you would've expected.
Is there an opportunity to revisit your footprint more broadly and to throttle your SG&amp;A next year whether it's on the wallboard side or at L&amp;W? That's a great question.
We actually look at our footprint almost every month.
Every -- as we were talking about we just permanently idled about 640 to 650 million feet of capacity.
We look at running our network at very high rates.
Our efficiencies quite frankly right now we're running at historic highs.
So that is something that we run through our network optimization.
So we feel that the current footprint we have considering the idle capacity works for us.
We do have some areas that we have some voids in that we're keeping an eye on that we would like to be some places out West we have to ship into.
But throttling back our footprint is not something that we feel is appropriate because we -- 2015 and 2016 we think the opportunities are going to be better.
We aren't talking about big double-digit growth in wallboard demand.
But as we said in our prepared comments next year is going to be a stronger year than this year.
As Matt said we're running our effective capacity in the high -- mid-80s so we're running our plants really well.
Turning to L&amp;W we've taken the footprint down to what we think is the appropriate level 100-plus locations.
We did not exit any markets.
A couple of secondary markets we have to ship into but we feel that the current footprint is appropriate considering what we see in our planning period that we think there's going to be some modest growth in the business.
Our following question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to revisit 1 comment in the prepared text about market share in wallboard.
In the last couple of quarters you've been below the industry numbers that came out.
I believe you think you're still maintaining shares.
If you could give us any more detail on that that would be helpful.
Yes.
As we've talked really in the last few years our strategy is balancing price and share.
And we don't look as much quarter-to-quarter we look at the trend lines and these trend lines that we have on -- have been really consistent over the last couple of years.
As Matt said our share through this year is pretty constant.
And we feel -- if you look at quarter-by-quarter it's a difference of probably 25 million 30 million feet which is a couple of truckloads a day difference.
So we don't really get obsessed about is it -- are we trending behind the industry per a quarter or so.
So we look at the overall trend.
There's some regional differences too.
Some of the regions where we have a larger customer concentration the region wasn't as strong as some other regions.
So we feel comfortable where we are and our strategy of balancing price and volume will continue.
Our following question comes from Eli Hackel from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk USG Boral for a second.
It seems to be performing well.
I know it's still a little early.
But have you looked at the synergy targets? You finished the technology ahead of schedule under cost.
Is there any upside potential on the synergy there? And I know a competitor introduced a lightweight product in the market.
Any comment on that would be great.
Yes.
We're really pleased with where we are.
We're ahead of schedule on rolling out technology.
And put in perspective just to put our basic technology and it was 25 manufacturing plants with a lot of geography.
So I'd like to do a shout-out to our technology team that put a lot of miles on and went into the plants and just did a phenomenal job putting the USG systems in.
And then with some of the plants we put the UltraLight technology in as well.
If you talk about directionally where -- when we started the JV we thought from the synergies it would be about 40% would come from revenue growth about 1/3 would come from cost savings or so and then another 25% would come from adjacent products.
And actually we're very pleased with what we're doing with adjacent products.
The Boral organization has a very vast sales organization with critical mass and now they have ceiling tile and a lot of the products that they didn't have in their product offering.
The -- we did have a competitor in Australia introduce a so-called Mitoo [ph].
The product does not perform from a sag perspective.
And quite frankly it's kind of a knockoff of what we sell here in the United States.
And we feel that we have -- actually we have a better product.
It does not sag.
And really in that part of the world it's not as much about weight.
It's more about performance and sag.
And you think about Indonesia Thailand some of the high humidity areas they put plasterboard.
Most of the plasterboard is put on the ceiling.
A lot of the plasterboard is 16 foot in length and you can imagine putting that in a high humidity area where the windows are open because the -- that's the construction practices in a lot of areas there that it's almost impossible if it doesn't sag.
What's great about the NexGen product which we market NexGen in that part of the world out of UltraLight it doesn't sag.
So it's really about sag versus weight but we're getting both and it's -- we feel it's a great compliment when someone tries to copy what you're doing.
Our following question comes from Todd Vencil from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> You've talked about looking at wallboard pricing.
You've talked about the idea Matt in particular that pricing for wallboard tends to move back and forth like a battlefront.
But along that front there's always little skirmishes going on.
I'm just wondering -- looking a little deeper into the competitive environment have you seen any shift in the number of the ferocity of the skirmishes that are going on? Or has the competitive environment really been sort of where you expected it to be? We're always in a competitive environment.
And our philosophy has been we support our customers' growth and the market is -- the market dynamics are always very competitive not only in wallboard but all the products.
And we believe in a very -- that's good for business and we haven't seen any more or less but we think that we sit down with our customers we have a value proposition and that's the reason they buy from our -- from USG.
It's the full line.
It isn't just wallboard.
They're buying Joint Treatment and DUROCK and we feel going to our customers with a full basket of products really provides a value proposition that makes them more successful.
Our following question comes from Kathryn Thompson from Thompson Research.
LLC</strong> Questions on domestic ceiling tiles.
There's been a relatively new entrant over the past year small brand ROCKWOOL [ph] into the U.S.
market and feedback from the field is -- listen they're not big in terms of volumes but they do seem to be causing some noise in terms of pricing.
What if any impact are you seeing to ROCKWOOL's [ph] entry into the ceiling tiles market specifically to pricing in 2014? Yes Kathryn.
Yes we have a new entrant in the market.
In fact there are -- we have quite a few smaller competitors in the Ceilings market that we don't talk about.
We have metal ceiling competitors there's wood competitors.
This individual competitor comes in at the high end which I had mentioned in my prepared comments.
That's kind of the trend in the market.
Some of the issues that we see it's being shipped in from Europe which long term doesn't work.
We've heard rumors that there's going to be a manufacturing plant that will be built which is 18 months away.
I think the biggest issue that we see with that particular competitor is lack of distribution.
Ceilings business really is made with distribution.
It's a break ball [ph] product.
You typically don't ship a full truckload of ceiling -- 1 type of ceiling products.
There's all different types of mixes colors and performance products.
So distribution is really essential in the Ceilings business.
Our philosophy is having the best distributors in each market really is the key to you growing your Ceilings business.
So that's really the weakness we see.
It's really not a price issue.
We're -- it's operating at the high end.
And we have a lot of competitors that come in at that very specialty end and we're very optimistic about the future.
We don't -- we always take new competition very seriously but this isn't something that we are very concerned about.
We have our last question from Sean Wondrack from Deutsche Bank.
As you look forward being that this is the last quarter you'll be discussing pricing in 2015 it seems that your ability to take price has sort of slowed a little bit.
I think you're up about 10% year-over-year right now.
Broad stroke would you expect mid-single digit growth next year or flattish pricing next year as we look ahead? As we've talked over the years we never comment on prospective pricing in 2015.
This is -- we typically will sit down with our customers starting here in the next couple of weeks and sit down and talk to them about pricing.
As Matt said in his prepared comments we expect inflation in all product categories in 2015.
And our job as a management team is to offset inflation and improve margins.
So we don't give a view on 2015 pricing but let me assure you that we look at inflation across all product lines and it's our job to continue to grow the bottom line for the company.
Thank you for those questions.
And I just like to wrap up with a couple of comments.
During the third quarter as we mentioned each one of our business units improved its results and it's been a long time over the last 5 years that we've been able to say that as a company.
In our Ceilings business we generated a record operating profit.
L&amp;W as I said is trending behind but did generate its sixth consecutive quarter of positive operating results and the Gypsum segment had the strongest quarterly wallboard volume since 2008.
All of these were accomplished when there's been 2/3 of the historic average market opportunity.
So think of that Ceilings business record quarter L&amp;W positive results strongest wallboard volume during the quarter since '08 and this was done on 2/3 of the opportunity.
I think that's really critical to take note of.
We're very proud of the progress we've made and we've done it with integrity in which we operate every single day.
As the recovery slowly grinds forward we're going to stay focused.
As we've talked about managing our cost we're very very focused on deleveraging our balance sheet that's one of our top priorities and also seeking organic growth opportunities as we continue to grow and build USG.
As always we appreciate your time today particularly at the earlier hour and we really appreciate your interest in USG.
Thank you.
Good morning.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Thursday November 6.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Well thank you to my speakers and thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and 2014 Results Conference Call.
My name is Lorraine and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Ken Banas.
Mr.
Banas you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call and live webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumption of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
In addition please refer to our earnings press release and presentation slides for disclosures and reconciliations on non-GAAP measures used when discussing our results and outlook.
With me today to discuss our results and outlook are: Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Matt will then review the financial results for the corporation and the business segments.
We will then open up the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
[Operator Instructions] Jim? Thank you Ken and good morning.
We appreciate your interest in USG this morning.
Today what I'd like to do is discuss the fourth quarter and the full year 2014 and then give you an outlook of how we see the upcoming year of 2015.
We continued to make progress on our plan in 2014.
Adjusted net income of $168 million increased by almost 2.5x from 1 year ago.
We recorded the strongest adjusted EBITDA since 2006 of over $550 million.
To put that in perspective that's when housing starts were 1.8 million.
We also finalized our joint venture with Boral and generated operating results that met or exceeded our expectations in that joint venture.
We made continued progress in deleveraging our balance sheet and I know that's something that's very important to our investors.
And we maintained a very high standards for our quality and safety.
In fact we had one of the best safety years in the history of our company.
These are some of the accomplishments that -- I like to say our Plan to Win is working.
During the fourth quarter despite the slow recovery we delivered strong results in our core businesses and we are well positioned for growth in 2015.
The recovery though is more elongated than we were anticipating yet I'm confident that 2015 is going to be stronger than 2014.
And we believe that the recovery will continue to improve all of our end-use markets through this year.
Now I'd like to take a couple minutes and touch on each one of our business segments.
First in our Gypsum business.
We had a good quarter generating $72 million in adjusted operating profit.
The primary drivers of our performance continued to be wallboard price and volume.
Despite less prebuying activity in the overall industry than we had last year the fourth quarter of 2014 was the strongest volume that we had since the third quarter of 2008.
We also had strong earnings growth in our surfaces business led by our industry-leading Joint Treatment.
During the quarter we did incur several charges totaling $75 million which was associated with our shipping business which is known as GTL.
We took these charges due to our key trading partners ceasing operations in December all as a result of the dramatic drop that we saw in iron ore prices.
We had been actively examining strategic alternatives for these noncore assets including the possibility of selling our ships.
Turning to our Ceilings business.
We generated another quarter of solid results with $18 million of adjusted operating profit.
Although we did not comp the record fourth quarter from last year where we had some demand pull forward I'm really pleased with the performance of this business.
We continue to see mix shift towards higher-performing higher-margin products coupled with price improvement.
And we expect these trends in the Ceilings business to continue in 2015.
The Ceilings business continues to perform well even though the improvement in commercial opportunity has not fully materialized.
After a very slow first quarter in 2014 the Ceilings business delivered record profits within the year.
And I feel there's more opportunity for growth when the commercial market starts to get some real traction.
Turning to our Distribution business.
Adjusted operating profit was $7 million for the quarter which was flat with the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the year we generated $100 million in incremental sales and doubled our annual adjusted operating profit relative to 2013.
But I'll tell you I still expect better performance in this segment.
Despite the softness in the commercial market this business must deliver better results for USG Corp.
During the fourth quarter we did reorganize the L&amp;W business to be more focused on the customer and to drive opportunities to improve profitability.
L&amp;W is a key part of the portfolio and is positioned for solid growth as the commercial market improves.
Now I'd like to turn to USG Boral.
USG Boral had another great quarter with business -- the business contributing $14 million in net earnings.
The launch of next-generation SHEETROCK or it's called in that part of the world NexGen we launched it in Australia Korea and Thailand and it is all on track.
The conversion rates are reaching more than 10% in some of these markets with just a few months after the launch and we are selling NexGen at a price premium.
We're also beginning to see sales growth in our adjacent products led by our USG Technology Joint Compounds.
I'm really proud of the early performance in these emerging markets and we will continue to grow as we roll out additional USG technologies and products.
Our employees focus on advancing our Plan to Win every day and it's our focus -- it's that focus that enables us to improve the results in 2014 and feel good about our position for 2015.
As I've mentioned in previous calls our Plan to Win consists of 3 pillars to build the USG of the future: strengthening the core diversifying our earnings and differentiating through innovation.
Our commitment to strengthening the core is evident in our Gypsum results.
The annual segment revenue was comparable to 2007 but we had more than double the operating profit on 1/2 the volume.
By improving our value proposition in the market and implementing effective cost controls we have substantially improved the operating leverage in the Gypsum business without sacrificing safety quality or service to our customers.
Diversifying our earnings is the second pillar of our Plan to Win and we took a major step forward with the formation of our joint venture with Boral.
USG Boral delivered results at the higher end of our projections.
And I'm confident we will continue to see growth in this business.
USG Boral is a leader in that region.
And that region is currently the second-largest plasterboard market in the world with demand growing in mid to high single digits in 2015.
We believe this investment will help enable us to dampen future cyclicality of USG by at least 10% to 15%.
By bringing together Boral's expansive footprint with our world-leading technologies we expect to drive approximately $50 million in synergies over the next 3 years.
While we have plenty of work to do I'm very pleased with the early progress and I expect the business to be paying cash dividends later this year.
Differentiating through innovation is our third pillar of our strategy.
Our innovation creates a competitive advantage and differentiates USG in the market.
We continue to focus on developing high-performance systems that drive energy efficiency sustainability and the speed of construction to benefit our customers and contribute to better-performing and healthier buildings.
One example of our recent innovation is our new DUROCK EcoCap self-leveling underlayment.
This flooring product is an eco-friendly self-drying cement-based product that is both quick-setting and environmentally sustainable because of a high recycle content.
We're proud of the product innovations that we delivered to the marketplace over the last few years.
And like EcoCap this enables our customers to be successful every day.
At this time I'd like to turn our call over to Matt who's going to provide some comments on the results and a financial outlook for the year.
Matt? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
Today I'll recap our fourth quarter and full year results as well as provide some detail into each of our businesses and lay out some of our expectations for 2015.
For the full year of 2014 our revenue was $3.7 billion an increase of over 4% compared to 2013.
We generated full year GAAP net income of $37 million compared to $47 million in 2013.
On an unadjusted basis we more than doubled our net income from $73 million to $168 million.
The improvement in our results was driven by 3 key dimensions in our business including ongoing pricing improvement across substantially all of our products stronger demand and effective cost management.
Looking at the fourth quarter total revenues were $954 million an increase of 4% compared to a year ago.
We generated a GAAP net loss of $53 million during the fourth quarter due primarily to 2 sets of charges: first $75 million of charges related to our noncore shipping business known as GTL; and second a $13 million charge related to permanently settling our United Kingdom pension plan remaining from our sale of Europe.
Excluding these 2 adjustments our adjusted net income was $35 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to $22 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The 2 largest contributors to our improved year-over-year adjusted earnings were: wallboard which added $17 million of profit improvement; and our USG Boral joint venture which added $14 million in the quarter.
Let me take a moment to speak about GTL our noncore shipping business.
I think that a bit of historical context is important.
For those that followed us during the great -- during the depth of the Great Recession we had 2 ships that were no longer needed to transport Gypsum up and down North America's Eastern seaboard.
At the time we were incurring substantial operating costs to hold the ships and so we looked for opportunities to mitigate their holding costs.
Back then there were virtually no options other than repositioning the ships to West Africa to transport iron ore to help cover our costs and bide our time.
And in doing so we not only covered the operating cost of the ships but we also generated about $55 million in profit over the past 3 years.
Fast-forward to our fourth quarter of this year.
Falling iron ore prices caused our trading partner to cease operations in December.
As a result we have taken 2 charges amounting to $75 million.
One of the charges amounts to a noncash asset impairment charge of $60 million related to the value of the ships.
The second a cash-based charge of $15 million which relates to both a contract for a third ocean vessel leased buyer shipping business that is no longer being utilized and an uncollectible receivable owed to our shipping business by its key trading partner.
In addition due to our trading partner ceasing operations in the fourth quarter GTL's operating profit run rate was $9 million lower in the fourth quarter of 2014 than it was in the fourth quarter of 2013.
You may recall that GTL's profit in 2013 was weighted very heavily to the back end of the year.
As Jim mentioned earlier I want to reiterate that these ships are noncore assets and that we have been pursuing strategic alternatives including evaluating the possibility of selling the ships.
As we evaluate our alternatives our outlook for GTL in 2015 is just not certain.
As such we estimate that results from this noncore business in 2015 may range from nearly breakeven to a $15 million operating loss depending upon the duration and volumes under a short-term contract that we recently signed in December with a new trading partner.
Let me remind you that we earned $23 million from GTL in 2014 and $20 million in 2013.
My last comment on GTL.
Recall that our shipping business is recorded in our "Gypsum Other" operating segment along with our mining operations.
For 2015 we anticipate that the results in our mining operations will be flat year-over-year.
Now turning to our core businesses.
Regarding our Gypsum segment net sales for Gypsum increased by 6% to $625 million over the fourth quarter of last year and adjusted operating profit was $72 million compared to $82 million a year ago.
As a reminder we are no longer providing the average realized selling price of wallboard or square feet of wallboard shipments but rather we are giving you the operating profit impact of those variables consistent with our other product disclosures.
Please note that in the presentation we have added a revenue breakdown and color surrounding our gross margin volatility and comparative gross margin strength by Gypsum product line to supplement our disclosures in this area.
With that said wallboard price and volume contributed $13 million and $5 million of profit improvement in the fourth quarter respectively while cost was only slightly higher.
Our surfaces and substrates business also contributed $5 million of incremental profit improvement in the fourth quarter of 2014.
These positive improvements however were more than offset by lower profitability in GTL our noncore shipping business and unfavorable mark-to-market adjustments on our natural gas hedges plus some other costs primarily associated with gross and customer investments.
Regarding capacity utilization our nameplate capacity utilization was 56% for all of 2014 compared to 55% in 2013 and our effective capacity utilization during the fourth quarter was 87%.
As I've said over the last several quarters we have sufficient physical capacity to run up to and beyond the historical mean of demand in each of our end markets.
As demand continues to improve further into the year it is very likely that we will add back a ship or 2 in some of our higher-demand markets.
And as we have done in the past we will continue to match our investments in the business with the demand environment and what it will support.
In our Ceiling segment we had a solid fourth quarter generating $121 million in revenue and $18 million in operating profit compared to last year's $125 million in revenue and $21 million in operating profit after adjusting out the businesses that we contributed to USG Boral in the first quarter of 2014.
While we saw strength in the fourth quarter pricing with tile and grid adding $3 million of incremental operating profit volumes retreated as we saw less demand pull-forward in the recent fourth quarter and some currency headwinds in Canada and Mexico compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
Turning to our distribution segment.
During the fourth quarter we earned $7 million of adjusted operating profit on $342 million in revenues with adjusted operating profit flat to a year ago.
From a product standpoint we saw sales improvement across virtually all of our products distributed by L&amp;W led by wallboard with improved profit of $2 million compared to a year ago.
Turning to USG Boral.
During the fourth quarter total sales were $272 million and the JV generated $38 million in total adjusted operating profit.
Our half of the JV's net income was $14 million for the quarter which includes an insurance recovery from facility damage costs incurred earlier in the year.
In 10 months of operations USG Boral generated $35 million in adjusted earnings for USG which was in the top end of our full year guidance we've previously noted.
I am very pleased with the progress we're making in this business.
As we look to USG Boral in 2015 we expect to improve our -- on our 2014 performance.
Over the past 7 years the compounded annual growth rate for volume in the JV's expansive territory has been about 7%.
And we believe that through further adoption of Western construction practices and the implementation of USG technologies that we can maintain a similar pace over the foreseeable future.
Additionally we expect to begin receiving cash distributions from this business later this year which we plan to hold in anticipation of making 2 potential EBITDA earn-out payments to Boral totaling $75 million over the next 2 to 4 years.
Now I'd like to shift to SG&amp;A spending.
For the full year of 2014 SG&amp;A was $339 million.
And in the fourth quarter SG&amp;A expenses of $109 million were higher than the $91 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Let me highlight that included in this year's fourth quarter's SG&amp;A spending is $7 million of commission expenses moved for reporting purposes from sales to SG&amp;A and thus is neutral to the operating profit line.
Additionally in this year's fourth quarter we expensed $13 million to permanently get out of our United kingdom pension liability.
Adjusting for these items our SG&amp;A increased just $3 million for the year or less than 1% on increased sales of over $150 million on a year-over-year basis and our normalized SG&amp;A of $330 million for the year came in at the low end of our original guidance for 2014.
As we look to 2015 we expect SG&amp;A to be up slightly from 2014 and be in the range of $340 million to $350 million for all of USG primarily related to some additional investments around growth in customers plus some higher pension costs.
And please note that this range takes into account the annual sales commission expenses that I just mentioned.
We anticipate that our SG&amp;A-to-revenue ratio will continue to remain well below our 20-year average.
As I've said in the past we will make the necessary investments in our business to position USG for growth while managing our costs and working to offset inflation.
Turning to product input costs for 2015.
We anticipate inflation in the low single-digit range across all of our products and in most of our input costs including wages synthetic gypsum paper and freight.
And while we continually work to offset inflation through cost-reduction initiatives we will seek pricing improvement where possible to offset these cost increases.
With respect to natural gas we are approximately 75% hedged as we moved in -- as we move into 2015.
Our hedge position today is higher than our hedge position was heading into 2014 and our hedge rate will help dampen cost volatility in 2015.
With that said a quarter of our total gas costs will float with the market and it is possible that a warmer winter could result in lower natural gas prices in the first quarter.
We do expect our all-in annual natural gas cost to be flat with 2014's average of $4.15 per dekatherm.
As a reminder natural gas represents about 15% of our input costs to manufacture wallboard and every change of $1 per dekatherm represents about $2.25 change in our wallboard cost on an annual basis.
Turning to transportation for 2015 while we have all seen sharp declines in the price of oil in recent quarters we do not expect this to translate into significant freight savings for USG's manufacturing business in 2015.
Despite a lower oil cost the lack of long-haul drivers continues to put pressure on our transportation costs and we expect to see some modest inflation in freight in 2015.
With that said it is possible that lower oil prices could be a tailwind for L&amp;W Supply.
But keep in mind that fuel represents less than 10% of our total delivered cost.
Turning to taxes for 2015.
We expect our tax expense and cash taxes for all of USG Corporation to fall in the $6 million to $10 million range consistent with 2014.
These taxes are primarily attributable to foreign earnings and we expect them to be spread fairly evenly throughout the year.
Once again in the U.S.
we will not be a cash taxpayer in 2015 as we continue to utilize our $2 billion net operating loss carryforward.
At this time it is not our expectation that the valuation allowance will reverse in 2015.
As I have previously stated I will communicate more details regarding the impact of the valuation allowance reversal at least 2 to 3 quarters before when we expect that to occur.
Regarding capital expenditures for 2015.
We expect 2015 CapEx to be around $100 million compared to the $132 million we spent in 2014.
We think it's important to stay prudent in our spending.
It is also possible that if we see the recovery accelerate as we move through 2015 we may modestly increase our CapEx spend particularly around some new growth opportunities.
I want to reiterate that we expect all capital expenditures related to the USG Boral JV to be self-funded through the joint venture's cash flows and any distributions will be first used to fund the potential earn-out payments.
Shifting to liquidity.
As of December 31 2014 we had total liquidity of $673 million compared with total liquidity of $1.27 billion as of December 31 2013.
As a reminder our 2013 liquidity includes the $513 million of cash that we used to fund our joint venture with Boral in February of this year.
Based on where we are in the cycle I believe that we have an adequate cash position and improving demand environment and that we will continue to generate free cash throughout 2015.
Consistent with prior years we expect to use more cash in the first half of the year compared to the second half due to rebate payments and normal first quarter business requirements.
Lastly I want to talk about our debt and our commitment to organically delever the balance sheet.
In 2014 we took some important steps towards delevering our balance sheet and optimizing our capital structure.
In March we called the remaining $75 million of convertible notes saving approximately $8 million in interest per year.
In August we paid off a $59 million bullet loan with cash from the balance sheet reducing interest by an additional $6 million per year.
We also contributed $60 million to our pension plans.
And in October we renegotiated our asset-based revolving credit facility to a new 5-year deal generating about $2 million in savings per year.
As of year-end 2014 our total debt plus pension and other postretirement benefits was about $2.7 billion about the same as it was at the end of 2013.
And as I just discussed we reduced our total all-in debt by about $200 million during 2014 but this reduction was offset by increases in our pension liabilities driven by both the new mortality assumptions now required to be used in the actuarial calculations and the declining interest rate environment.
With that said though we did strengthen our debt-to-EBITDA ratio to less than 5x in 2014 compared to about 6x at the end of 2013 because of the improvement in our adjusted EBITDA.
As we have previously stated our target leverage ratio is 1.5x to 2x debt-to-EBITDA at the midcycle.
And to achieve this target we will strive for improvements in both the numerator and the denominator of this ratio.
As we look towards 2015 we do not have any major debt milestones that must be addressed.
However we remain committed to further delevering our balance sheet.
And we may look to lower our interest expense by opportunistically refinancing some of our higher-cost debt allowing us to put a layer of long-term low-cost capital in the business.
Please note that for all of 2015 it is our expectation that our total interest payment will be about $167 million compared to $175 million in 2014 without consideration of any potential refinancing.
Additionally in 2015 we expect to make cash contributions to our pension plans of around $65 million with pension expense of around $70 million.
On a PBO basis we are about 80% funded with a current unfunded pension liability of approximately $350 million compared to a liability of about $155 million at the end of 2013 with the increase driven by the new mortality assumptions and the declining interest rate environment that I mentioned earlier.
We expect that the gap in our pension liability will close as we make our annual contributions.
We are committed to paying down our debt organically.
We have a $500 million bullet loan that is due in 2016 that is clearly in our sights to pay off.
We have another $500 million due in 2018 that we also have in our sights to pay off.
Plus we have approximately $600 million of debt that is due in 2020 and 2021 that is callable beginning in 2016.
And this callable debt gives us the optionality of repaying our debt faster pending the continued strength of the recovery in our end markets.
As we begin 2015 I remain confident that we will generate sufficient cash to organically delever within our planning horizon and that we will achieve our target leverage ratio over that same time frame.
And at this time I'd like to turn it back to Jim.
Thank you Matt.
Before we begin our Q&amp;A session I'd like to share our thoughts about our end-use markets in 2014 and our outlook for this year in 2015.
2014 housing starts came in at the low end of our range closing the year right around 1 million starts but this does represent the fifth consecutive year of positive growth in residential but still remains well below the 50-year average of 1.5 million starts.
The outlook for 2015 is brighter with household formations dramatically improving in the recent months and the Blue Chip consensus is projecting housing starts of about 1.2 million for the full year.
Our projections for housing in 2015 are slightly more conservative and we feel it's going to fall in the range of 1 million to 1.2 million somewhere in that range.
In new commercial we saw low single-digit growth in 2014 with the improvement primarily coming in the second half of the year and it was very regional.
We see this positive commercial trend continuing into 2015 and picking up momentum as we get further into the year.
We strongly believe that the commercial opportunity will improve in 2015.
While we are expecting a strengthening commercial market in mid single-digit growth this year some uneven improvement by segment and geography is certainly possible in commercial.
The repair and remodel market which includes both residential and commercial repair and remodel continues to be a key component of our business.
Repair and remodel represents approximately 50% of our sales and we saw growth in 2014 in the low single-digit range.
We believe we have the right customer partnerships.
And the macroeconomics continue to support growth in repair and remodel with unemployment declining existing housing sales improving and consumer confidence rising.
Looking at 2015 we are expecting R&amp;R to grow in the low to mid single-digit range.
And finally looking at USG Boral.
As Matt said we've wrapped up the first 10 months of operations which saw strong results and positioned the business for a very bright future.
This year in 2015 with USG Boral we expect to see growth in our 12 multinational geographies in the mid to high single-digit range.
This is the part of the business that has the strongest growth opportunity for us in 2015.
So with that I'd like to open up the call for questions.
And as Ken mentioned at the beginning of the call we'd like to keep all the questions to 1 so everyone has a chance to ask questions that are in queue.
So I'll turn it over to the operator.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Yes I wanted to ask about the Wallboard segment.
If you could talk a little bit more about first of all the trends that you're seeing there in commercial.
You sort of talked about some optimism but you also talked about some pull-forward in Ceilings.
So I wanted to ask you first about the commercial market.
If you could give a little bit more clarity about -- did you see some in drywall? Did you see a little less in Ceilings? And then also if you could be more specific about what the drywall volume was in 4Q '14.
Thank you Kim.
A couple of things.
The -- we were really pleased with wallboard volume in the fourth quarter.
As I mentioned it was the strongest quarter we had I think since third quarter of 2008.
If you look at wallboard we shipped about 5.3 billion feet for the year.
When you look at commercial and we don't really break out the commercial opportunity by Wallboard or Ceilings I mean that they both go into a commercial building it was very regional.
We saw some growth in the back half of the year.
And where we're really seeing the growth of 3 areas in commercial are educational retail and office.
Those are the -- really the big drivers of our business.
The big difference in commercial between SHEETROCK and Ceilings is Ceilings' lag is about 18 months.
So when you see a commercial start the Ceilings -- you won't see ceilings shipping for 18 months where wallboard is probably 9 to 12 months.
So that's the big difference.
There's a longer lag on the Ceilings business on commercial.
So it's still a uneven market on commercial.
If you look at the overall United States it's very strong on the West Coast.
And you kind of go through the country where the Gulf Coast areas and up the East Coast has been very very strong but it's still coming from some very low areas.
So the wallboard volume was strong in the fourth quarter.
We had a great volume year comparatively.
And really the key to our business isn't really commercial.
Half of our business is repair and remodel.
So that's something we're really watching as well is the growth in repair and remodel along with commercial.
And our next question comes from Michael Dahl from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to make sure I understood the comments on the likely performance for the GTL business.
Were you saying that excluding further charges it's breakeven to a loss of $15 million? And if so isn't that a scenario where it's better to just kind of shut it down immediately rather than continue any further operations? Michael this is Matt Hilzinger.
Yes you've got it right.
So we've earned in 2014 about call it $20 million to $23 million that we just earned -- those earnings are going to be gone for 2015.
And the operating cost of the ships can be up to $15 million.
And so depending upon how we manage a short-term contract we may mitigate some of that $15 million.
So we're just saying it's somewhere between minus $15 million and breakeven for 2015.
And as we think about 2016 we want to neutralize this right? And as Jim has said as I reiterated these are noncore assets.
And these are things that I can't get into the specifics of things that we're looking at but clearly they're noncore.
And one of the things that we said that we were going to explore is selling the ships and we're headed down that path.
And we're going to look at some other alternatives as well.
But the idea is that this is noncore and we're going to focus on those things that really make long-term money for us.
So I hope that's helpful.
And our next question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to dig into your commercial comments a little more.
On the positive outlook for '15 is that a commentary on Wallboard Ceilings or both? That would be the commentary on commercial starts which they would include both Wallboard and Ceilings but there is a different lag.
So a commercial start today we would not be putting ceilings in for 18 months because that's one of the last things that -- you think about a commercial building a commercial office building for example Ceilings go in at the back part of the construction cycle because it's a finished product.
They put in the steel studs.
SHEETROCK comes next carpet furniture and typically ceilings are shipped last.
So when you look at the commercial opportunity it does include both.
But you have to lag gypsum and ceilings at different time frames.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How about the renovation? I think it's what people are really interested in.
What's your view on commercial renovation for '15? We're very -- R&amp;R we feel very very positive.
That's as I said commercial and residential R&amp;R are approximately 1/2 of our business.
And that's been -- quite frankly commercial repair and remodel has been pretty robust the last 24 months and that's been a big driver of our Ceilings business.
It hasn't been really new commercial.
It's been commercial repair and remodel.
That's a big segment for L&amp;W Supply.
And we think that's growing into the mid single-digit growth for 2015.
So that is more robust we feel than new commercial.
And our next question comes from Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> When I look at your Gypsum segment even after your -- if I look at your North American Gypsum segment even if you strip out the GTL charges and what it could've earned last year it seems like there was no significant margin compression.
Can you talk about what's driving that? And will some of those costs linger in 2015 as well? Yes this is Matt Hilzinger.
Actually if you take a look at -- in the segments if you take a look at Gypsum United States you'll see that the actual operating profit numerically is down from the prior year.
But if you -- you've got to go back and take out a couple of adjustments that we had in the third quarter: one was the lawsuit and the other was the impairment.
And I think what you'll see is you'll actually see that that business continues to improve both volume-wise and price-wise.
And so I think you've got to peel apart some of the numbers a little bit more than -- and I understand this is kind of a complicated quarter.
There's a lot of ins and there's a lot of outs.
And the other thing I would consider is the $9 million change in operating profit for GTL.
So last year GTL in the fourth quarter made $12 million.
This quarter they made $4 million.
So if you pull that out I think you'll get to some numbers that I think actually show some strong volume and profit improvement.
And our next question comes from Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim I was hoping you and Matt could just really talk about how you think about positioning both Ceilings and the Gypsum business in the current volume environment to get better profitability and kind of how you're thinking about incremental margins in 2015.
Bob what we're looking it's really -- we're going to run the same play particularly for Gypsum and Ceilings where we're going to continue to get a value proposition in the markets price improvement and where we have price improvement in every product category.
We're very focused on continuing our cost reductions.
We have a very robust Lean Six Sigma program both for Ceilings Gypsum and including L&amp;W.
We have some new products we want to introduce.
And we feel that also there's going to be -- we're starting to see some wind at our back on volume.
I mean if you look at volumes the last really 4 quarters we're starting to see a little bit of improvement in commercial as I said.
It's been a very -- we've used the term choppy.
We also say right now that we're feeling a little better about commercial which will help our Ceilings business.
We've been sold out Bob on our high-end Ceilings business for the last 1.5 years which is our high-margin business.
The market's trending towards the high-end Ceilings business.
And if you recall we made some capital investments at 2 of our ceilings plants at Cloquet and Greenville which will give us some additional capacity all focused on that high end.
So Ceilings business it's price improvement going to the higher-end Ceilings getting a little volume at our back.
The Gypsum business is continuing to provide value.
And with our new product introduction we're very pleased with our 5/8 UltraLight Firecode which is growing in the market at a price premium.
And we're growing with some of our large customers.
We think we've partnered up with the right customers in the business.
So there's not one answer to this.
We're -- we have about 4 or 5 different plays we're running.
But I feel really confident about 2015.
It's going to be a better year than '14 and we're starting to see a little bit of traction in some of these markets that have been pretty soft.
Our next question comes from Tim Wojs from Baird.
Research Division</strong> I just -- I guess I had a clarification and then a question.
So if I look at the U.S.
Gypsum business I think adjusted EBIT was $63 million this quarter.
And I think the year-ago was either $59 million or $60 million so that's a $3 million or $4 million EBIT increase on what looks like a $50 million revenue increase.
I'm just curious what exactly are the puts and takes just specifically with those numbers? And then on Canada just given FX how should we think of the Canadian businesses in 2015? Just kind of a global comparison on the Gypsum business if you look there's 2 major charges that we had as Matt said.
We had $48 million for the litigation and $38 million.
If you recall we impaired idled assets or closed -- impaired some assets to the tune of about 650 million feet of wallboard capacity in the third quarter.
So that's basically $78 million $80 million that came out of the Gypsum business.
So if you look at the Wallboard business we grew the business.
We got price improvement during the year.
Our Surfaces and Substrates business was good.
And we added incremental profit in the business.
So operationally I mean there's a lot of puts and takes in there and a lot of ins and outs.
But operationally this is -- the Gypsum business our core business is humming.
The efficiencies are at record levels.
We had as I said earlier we had best safety performance in the history of the company.
And this is a core business that I would not be concerned about.
We're very optimistic about it.
It's clicking along and we're starting to get some wind at our back.
Research Division</strong> And I guess my question was just a little bit more on the year-over-year impact but then -- and then also just Canada.
The Canadian business was affected a couple million dollars by foreign exchange.
The business in Canada has been relatively steady over the last couple years.
They took a step backwards a little bit last year but the Canadian business is a business that we're very optimistic on.
We actually just -- we received a vendor of the year from a large customer the Home Depot in Canada.
And the Canadian business is something that I would not be concerned about.
And our next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to circle back to the prior question because I think the answer that was provided was more focused on charges taken in the third quarter.
And if you look at the margins and the profit again just wanted to go back.
I know that there was in the Wallboard business for the quarter $7 million negative impact from natural gas hedges.
It seemed like that was perhaps an issue of profitability with the U.S.
Gypsum margins.
But just wanted to know if there was anything else that was negatively impacting that margin that might persist into '15? And similarly the year-over-year decline in U.S.
Ceilings margins also was a little surprising.
And wondered if you had any other comments around that particularly as it pertains to going into '15.
I'll handle Ceilings and then I'll let Matt give you a little more color on the Gypsum business.
The Ceilings business really if you recall Michael last year last fourth quarter 2013 was a record profit quarter for us.
And there was quite a bit of volume pulled into the fourth quarter of 2014 from -- 2013 excuse me from 2014.
So the fourth quarter of last year for Ceilings business 2013 was really inflated by inventory pull-through by some of our customers.
So you peel that out and there was a little bit of FX we talked about that did affect the Ceilings business.
Quarter-on-quarter was basically flat.
I mean it was like 20 21 to 20 basically flat so nothing inherent in the Ceilings business.
If you recall we started out the year 2014 very -- on a very tough first quarter.
We had weather but we had a lot of that volume that was pulled into December for the Ceilings business.
We had a record third quarter in Ceilings in 2014.
And if you pull out some of the things that I just mentioned for the fourth quarter of '14 there wasn't really a big pullback a little bit of volume that you saw on the waterfall chart that Matt showed you but that had a lot to do with a grid being pulled into the December shipment.
So Ceilings business to answer your question nothing inherent.
It's just the comparisons versus big quarters or inventory pull-through.
And on the Gypsum business Matt can kind of take you through some of the ins and outs of the quarterly comparison.
Yes Michael yes so let me -- in the deck in the roll forward I think there's 3 items that I'd just highlight.
One is and you had mentioned it was the hedging.
So that hurt us by about $7 million.
And look I mean we aren't exactly sure.
I don't think there's anybody in the world that really knows what is going to happen with natural gas.
As I said in my comments I would expect natural gas to be flat next year '15 as it was with '14.
And I think there's actually a little bit of an opportunity if the weather stays warm and inventories stay high that we could beat that number and have that flow-through.
But clearly natural gas hedging is an item that I wouldn't expect to repeat next year.
But again it's largely dependent upon the -- on the markets.
And you'll see the Canada and Mexico line in there a minus 4.
There's actually a couple of million dollars of FX foreign exchange loss that's embedded in that.
Again my view is that's more onetime.
But we've seen currencies get devalued across the world.
And Canada being a big raw materials provider I think there still could be some pressure on FX as it relates to Canada in particular.
But again it's hard to predict exactly what's going to happen on FX.
And just to give you an example one of the things that we've done here on our foreign exchange is if you take a look at foreign exchange across the whole company whether it's in the Boral territories or Mexico or Canada or some of our remaining joint ventures in Europe a 10% valuation change in the U.S.
dollar compared to all the other currencies represents about a $10 million swing on our P&amp;L.
So it's not huge for us.
But clearly you're seeing it come up and be reflected in the Gypsum margins.
And then the last item I'd point out is you'll see IP investments in other costs.
There are some myriad of costs that we incurred this year in the third and particularly in the fourth quarter that I just don't expect that will reoccur.
So it was timing of buying some things and goods and services and so that may be $4 million or $5 million that we wouldn't expect to see reoccur.
So if you add that up you're probably around $10 million to $12 million $13 million of items in there that I don't think we'll expect to see next year.
But as -- there could be other items.
But I think that's pretty helpful.
I hope that's pretty helpful for you.
And our next question comes from Trey Grooms from Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Jim you gave some color on how you see some of your end markets shaking out this year and I appreciate that.
But just as a point of clarity given your kind of end-market mix for wallboard how does that translate into wallboard volume specifically for you guys this year given that mix? And kind of back of the envelope Matt tells me kind of mid to high single digits.
But just a point of clarity on that to make sure I'm on the right track.
Yes Trey we're -- 50% of our business is repair and remodel.
And that's -- we're saying that's mid single digits.
25% of our business is new res so you kind of put your number on that.
We think -- you're directionally correct.
We don't give a projection on where the market's going to be but we do feel 2015 is going to be stronger than '14.
And I think with our larger footprint in repair and remodel that gives us kind of a -- L&amp;W's heavily weighted on commercial 2/3 of their business on commercial.
So if you look at the L&amp;W results you can kind of mirror where you think commercial is going to be.
And on the Gypsum results more heavily weighted on the repair and remodel.
So kind of put your models where you think R&amp;R and Commercial is going to be and L&amp;W's 2/3 and the Gypsum business is more heavily weighted to residential and -- or excuse me repair and remodel.
Research Division</strong> Just again on that clarity there on the repair remodel for wallboard on the Gypsum business is that repair remodel pretty evenly split between res and nonres? Yes it is.
51/49 yes it bounces between that year-to-year but yes that's pretty correct.
You're right on.
And our next question comes from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
I just wanted to go back.
I think you had said that you were anticipating price improvement in every category.
And I think that was for everything or was that specific to the Ceilings business? And just as a kind of a follow-on or related to that assuming it was for everything can you give us an update on how the Gypsum pricing initiative is feeling at this stage versus where it would've been feeling at this stage last year? Yes.
We expect to get price improvement 2015 in all of our product categories.
As Matt says we have some inflation that is starting to creep into the system and the key is we want to more than offset inflation in each one of our product categories.
So either we have announcements or plan to have announcements with each one of our product categories both ceilings wallboard surfaces and substrates.
And it really gets down to the value proposition of how our customers view us as well.
So we want to make sure that we service our customers and continue to give them product innovations.
So there is value with what they pay us for our products.
If you look at -- you specifically ask about wallboard.
That is included in price improvement.
We have a price increase that has been put into the market effective January 1.
And the price for wallboard will go from January 1 to the end of October of this year.
We have time for 1 more question.
And our last question will come from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> The first question -- it's kind of 2 parts but one of the -- the first one is quick.
Matt what are the ships on the books at now following the impairment? And then the second part would be as you think about CapEx I think you said it was going to be $100 million which is down pretty materially from the last couple of years yet you have a good outlook on the markets new products kind of excited about the business and it was depressed through the downturn so a little surprising to see that pull back.
But just wondering if you can maybe walk through where you're cutting and how you think about CapEx at these levels? Dennis I think it's a 2-part question but since we're at the end of it we'll give you that one.
Let me talk about the CapEx and then I'll turn it over to Matt to wrap up.
If you look at CapEx early in the recession we took it down to $50 million.
And if you look at the last few years we were up $130 million $140 million $150 million.
I like to look at the average.
We feel that CapEx needs to be close to depreciation which is around the $140 million range.
So we may bounce year-on-year up and down there but if you look at CapEx it's going to be averaging through this -- going forward $140 million.
The key really is and this is really important to our investors we really have our sights set on the balance sheet.
And as Matt said earlier that $500 million at the end of 2016 we're very focused on paying that organically.
We're very optimistic about what's happening as the market -- in the market as we said.
But we're still very -- we're cautiously optimistic.
So we can dial CapEx up when we need to.
We have some great growth projects that we invested in the last couple years.
I mentioned earlier that we invested in our Ceilings business $50 million $60 million there for -- on that high-end Ceilings.
We're going to do some investments on our specialty wallboard lines to increase our product portfolio there.
So we are not short-sheeting any growth initiatives.
But on the other side of that is we're really focused on the balance sheet of having the best opportunity to organically pay that $500 million off in 2016.
Yes Dennis this is Matt.
On the net book value I'd prefer not to give you a specific number as we're in the -- right in the middle of looking at strategic options.
And if we sell the ships we want to get the best price we can.
And we just don't want to give any kind of indication as to what we think what we wrote those ships at.
I will say this we've got about a $20 million mortgage on those ships.
Our intent if we were to sell them would be to pay that mortgage off.
And to the extent there is a balance of cash left we would put that in the pool of funds to continue our delevering activities.
But I want to temper expectations about the value of the ships that we would pay the mortgage off and we'd probably have some left over to do some other things with in terms of delevering.
But I think we're in good shape.
I think we're headed in the right direction there.
Thank you.
I really appreciate everyone's questions and interest in USG.
And as -- hopefully you agree that 2014 was a very exciting year for us and I'm proud of the progress that we've made.
But obviously our work is certainly not done.
As we look into 2015 I'm confident we're going to see continued growth in each one of our markets.
And as the opportunity continues to improve we remain focused as I just mentioned on -- deleveraging our balance sheet is critical managing our cost.
And also along with that is seeking organic growth opportunities as we grow USG.
So thank you for your interest and we'll talk to you in 3 months.
Thanks Jim.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Wednesday February 18.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the USG First Quarter Results Conference Call.
My name is Cynthia and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to your host Ryan Flanagan.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call and live webcast.
We will be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under Securities Laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumption of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
These statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
In addition please refer to our earnings press release and presentation slides for disclosures and reconciliations on non-GAAP measures used when discussing our results and outlook.
With me today to discuss our results and outlook are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of the businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the corporation and the business segments.
We will then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
We'd like to ensure everyone has an opportunity to ask questions so as always when we get to the Q&amp;A session callers are asked to limit themselves to just one question.
Jim? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Ryan and good morning.
I appreciate everyone joining us this morning.
What we're going to do is spend the next hour talking about the first quarter results and our outlook for 2015.
But before we do that I'd like to touch on a few key points.
As most of you know USG is a leading building products manufacturer and distributor in North America with a new growth engine in our joint venture with Boral in Asia and Australasia.
Our strategy rests on three pillars to build the USG of the future: strengthen the core diversify our earnings and differentiate through innovation.
We're strengthening the core by improving the performance of our North American manufacturing and distribution businesses that will provide free cash flow to de-lever our balance sheet.
We're diversifying our earnings by expanding our global footprint through our USG Boral business.
And we're continuing to differentiate through innovation by introducing products that help our customers succeed.
We have the number one or two share in our core products and markets.
And our value proposition does command a price premium in almost all of our products.
And that's due to our innovation our commitment to quality and our strong customer service.
We're currently in the early to middle innings of what we think will be a longer growth cycle than in the past.
With 25% of our business levered to the commercial recovery that hasn't fully hit its stride we're really excited about the growth we see in our future.
We're going to continue to focus on margin expansion and use that growing cash flow to de-lever our balance sheet and invest to expand our business.
Now turning to the first quarter we took some very important steps to move our plan to win forward.
I'd like to touch on a couple of highlights.
First we made $43 million in adjusted net income.
We had operating profit expansion in every segment.
We reduced our SG&amp;A spending.
We have a deal in place to sell GTL our shipping business and USG Boral results improved over last year so I'd like to say we're off to a good start in 2015.
We achieved our fourth consecutive year of wallboard price improvement that outpaced inflation.
Now I know there's a lot of considerable attention paid to wallboard price and I want to assure you we're working every day in a very competitive environment to maximize our margins.
We grew our volume.
We held our costs firm and achieved price improvement which created higher margins.
As we look at continued improvement in demand I want to remind you that in past recoveries margin on wallboard accelerates as capacity rates improve.
If you recall from our discussion last quarter our 2015 wallboard not-to-exceed price is effective through October 31 of this year.
We have fine-tuned our strategy and believe having a conversation with our customers about a price increase in the fall – which as many of you know is the strongest demand time of the year – will enable us to better capture pricing for the value and help reduce some of the pre-buy activities we've seen in past years.
We have not yet determined what that price amount will be but there's numerous factors we're going to look at as we get later on in the year.
Demand inflation regionality weather effective capacity utilization will all influence our position on our pricing as the year unfolds.
Finally in the light of this extended recovery we made some adjustments to our spending.
We have scaled back our 2015 SG&amp;A spending projections by $20 million which is lower than it was last year in 2014.
I want to assure you we're still investing in growth with this plan.
But our management team is very focused on cost management to drive improved results for you our shareholders.
Now let's turn to each of our segments and talk about the first quarter.
Our Gypsum segment generated $68 million of adjusted operating profit in the first quarter.
There are two great stories coming out of the Gypsum segment.
First is US Wallboard.
I've already touched on the pricing improvement of wallboard during the quarter but pricing is not the end of the story.
Just as important as our price increase is what we'd (6:35) able to do on the cost front.
Our plan efficiencies are at all-time high.
Our strategic sourcing efforts and we did have a tailwind from natural gas did help us offset inflationary pressures from other input costs but we worked on price and cost during the quarter.
Along with pricing costs volume was strong with about a 9% increase in our shipments during the quarter.
The second story in Gypsum is our performance of our Surfaces and our Substrate businesses.
Investors who follow us closely already know this but we're much more than a wallboard company.
Our Surfaces and Substrate businesses are led by market-leading brands and products like our Sheetrock brand joint treatment and Durock cement board.
These businesses diversify the earnings within the Gypsum segment and they dampen the volatility of our wallboard business throughout the entire cycle.
In the first quarter we really saw these businesses shine by contributing $5 million of incremental operating profit.
This improvement came from our Sheetrock joint treatment Durock also Levelrock flooring and our Securock sheathing.
And we did this with a combination of price improvement we lowered our costs and we grew the business.
We also expect continued strength in these businesses throughout this year in 2015.
Now turning to our Ceilings business.
We earned $21 million in the first quarter an increase of $6 million over last year.
We implemented a price increase in our tile products during the first quarter realized stronger volume and incurred lower costs compared to last year when we saw significant spikes in natural gas costs.
We continue to see our customers' preferences shifting towards premium high-performance tile and away from the commodity tile line.
It was this premium tile line which has higher margins that accounted for the majority of our volume improvement in the quarter.
Our Distribution business L&amp;W Supply saw a $3 million improvement in operating profit in the quarter.
Revenue was up 11%; wallboard volume increased 15%; and we had strong store sales improving 10%.
We are seeing early signs of improvement in Distribution but I want to assure you: it's still not at the level of profit generation that I expect from the business.
But an improving commercial market the cost reductions that we currently and will continue to take and key operating initiatives will all contribute to growing L&amp;W's bottom line.
Finally we completed our first year in the USG Boral joint venture during the quarter.
USG Boral was a key part of our strategy and will be a significant catalyst of our growth going forward.
During the quarter UltraLight or Next Gen as we refer to it in that part of the world reached conversion rates of over 25% for ceiling applications in Australia with a price premium.
We look for continued strength at USG Boral through high-growth regions adoption rate improvement and complementary product expansion like ceilings and joint treatment.
Now I'd like to spend a few more minutes discussing our plan to win.
While all three pillars of our plan are key to our success I'd really like to dig a little deeper in strengthening our core businesses which is North American manufacturing and distribution.
Our focus on strengthening the core of our business we do that every day and we've been doing that for the last five years.
We do it when we capture price improvement that reflects the full value proposition of our products.
We do it when our Lean Six Sigma program takes costs out of our manufacturing processes and when we focus on spending and investment levels.
These efforts are evident this quarter and it's because of the results of our two major businesses U.S.
Gypsum and our Ceilings business in the United States.
In our U.S.
Gypsum business margins improved to 13.8% or 270 basis points.
Along with that our Ceilings business in the U.S.
improved to 17.1% an increase of 630 basis points.
So both companies had margin expansion during the quarter.
We're also lowering the break-even in these businesses.
We're doing it by improving our price; stronger volume and cost control all contributed to this margin lift at both U.S.
Gypsum and USG Ceilings.
These two businesses are going to generate the significant share of cash that we use to de-lever our balance sheet.
And as you all know a strong balance sheet strengthens our core of our entire portfolio and is going to position us throughout the next cycle.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Matt and he's going to dig into some of the financial results for the quarter.
Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
So let's start right off with our first quarter results.
Our net sales were up 7% from the first quarter of 2014 and our operating profit increased by $10 million.
But most importantly on an adjusted basis operating profit increased $15 million from $69 million to $84 million.
We recorded GAAP net income of $24 million compared to $45 million last year; and again on an adjusted basis net income more than doubled from $19 million to $43 million with adjusted EPS rising $0.15.
The only difference between our adjusted net income and our GAAP net income this quarter relates to the refinancing costs on our $350 million of 8.375 senior notes.
Lastly our adjusted EBITDA which includes the results from USG Boral increased 15% to $132 million.
So now let's turn over and move into some of the details.
In our Gypsum business we saw $3 million of adjusted operating profit improvement but this $3 million doesn't tell the whole story.
This $3 million of operating profit improvement is off a base that includes $8 million of prior-year earnings in GTL our non-core shipping business which we are exiting; and $7 million of benefit related to last year's reversal of an asset retirement obligation in our mining operations.
So excluding those contributions to prior-year operating profit the real takeaways from Gypsum this quarter are an $18 million of improved operating profit 250 basis points of operating margin improvement to 12% and a 42% incremental operating leverage in the business.
In addition to the price improvement that Jim talked about we saw greater efficiencies and about a 9% increase in wallboard shipments that drove the lion's share of our improvement.
In addition we saw price increases in virtually every product we sold.
Our Surfaces and Substrate business improved because of price efficiencies and volumes.
Let me take a moment and discuss GTL our shipping business.
Let me remind everybody: USG has owned and operated ships for over 100 years.
They've been an integral part of our business.
And as I said last quarter we have been reviewing our strategic options around the ships.
We've considered a number of paths and in the end we concluded that these assets were non-core and selling them just made the most sense.
So we went through a comprehensive process and as a result we have entered into agreements to sell the ships.
And there are four things that I'd really like you to take away today.
First we have agreements in place to sell the ships for around $42 million which are subject to the final inspections and customary closing conditions.
Second we expect to close very shortly.
Third our net cash is roughly $10 million after paying off the mortgages and finishing our operation.
And lastly our net loss on full year earnings will be about $5 million after netting our $6 million gain on sale all of which is going to be wrapped up in the second quarter.
So I'm pleased with the agreements and I look forward to getting these things closed.
And for clarification going forward starting in the second quarter we will exclude all of GTL's results from our adjusted operating profit from both 2014 and 2015 so that our quarterly comparisons going forward won't be distorted.
Moving to Ceilings sales increased $5 million to $123 million after adjusting the prior-year sales of entities contributed to the USG Boral joint venture in February of last year.
Adjusted operating profit increased by 40% over last year from $15 million to $21 million.
And the U.S.
territory was clearly the driving force behind this performance with 630 basis points of operating margin improvement to 16.5%.
Now to be fair our first quarter performance did benefit from better weather conditions compared to last year which helped lift volumes and lower cost a bit.
And we did have a modest price increase this February that helped the quarter too.
Now let's quickly touch on distribution where we saw roughly an 11% increase in sales driven primarily by improved commercial and multi-family residential.
Our adjusted operating profit increased by $3 million and our delivery costs as a percentage of sales were flat to last year.
Moving to our USG Boral joint venture sales for the total JV were $228 million in the first quarter of 2015 and the whole joint venture generated $23 million of income – of operating profit with $8 million as our portion of equity income.
Please remember that last year's results only had one month so straight comparisons really aren't meaningful.
There's also some seasonality that I'd like to highlight.
The first quarter is typically the lightest quarter of the year.
And even within the quarter January and February are typically slower than March due to the Chinese New Year holiday and there's some other holidays in there as well.
Frankly that's an important data point when you look at our first quarter performance versus March of last year because the results in the first quarter of 2015 might look flat to down at first blush but – if you simply extrapolate March from last year.
However if you take a look at it on an apples-to-apples basis March of 2015 was a stronger month than March of 2014 for the joint venture.
So the takeaway is that the business is doing well and we're very pleased with where it's headed.
As it relates I would also like to point out that we continue to be on track to realize the full $50 million of synergies over the course of the next three years.
And as it relates to cash from the JV we've been targeting and do target dividends equal to 50% of earnings which are to be paid semi-annually.
And I'm pleased to report that the JV will pay its very first dividend in May of this year to USG to the tune of $18 million.
And just to remind everybody we plan to use our dividends to fund the potential earn-out payments to Boral which could amount to $75 million over the next four years.
Before I turn it back to Jim I want to comment on our SG&amp;A reductions and walk through a few other pieces of our financial outlook for 2015.
As Jim said we are scaling back our SG&amp;A spending for 2015.
We've taken $20 million out of forecasted SG&amp;A spending for the year and our revised guidance puts us at about $325 million for this year.
Thinking about our spending pattern for the year you'll likely see SG&amp;A in Q2 and Q3 slightly higher than what you saw in 2014 but with much less spending in the fourth quarter of 2015 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
And as Jim said it's important for everyone to know that we are absolutely committed to investing in our businesses and our people.
But we need to invest in a manner that reflects the pace of this recovery and not get ahead of ourselves given where we are in this cycle.
I'd like to raise a news topic for everybody which is related to our income tax outlook.
And this is actually good news because it's based on positive earnings growth.
I have told you that we would give you a heads-up when we reach that window of time before we reverse our valuation allowance.
So this is my heads-up to you.
Based on our forecasted profitability in the U.S.
we may release all or a portion of our $1 billion domestic tax valuation allowance by the end of 2015.
When we release the valuation allowance otherwise known as the VA we'll realize a significant non-cash income tax benefit in our GAAP results.
But most importantly as we move forward we'll record income tax expense but we'll pay no U.S.
federal tax until we fully absorb our $1.9 billion net operating loss.
So this does not impact cash only the P&amp;L.
From an income tax expense standpoint we anticipate our annual global effective tax rate will be between 29% and 31%.
There will be no impact to the results of USG Boral because they're recorded net of tax and there is no impact to Canada or Mexico either.
And just to remind everybody until we release the VA we expect our tax expense to amount to roughly $2 million a quarter.
Just a quick note on foreign currency because I know that's on everybody's mind.
For the first quarter we saw roughly a $1 million FX headwind in Canada and a $1 million headwind in USG Boral.
For the balance of the year we think FX could unfavorably impact our earnings by $6 million on an all-in basis if rates do not move any further.
And let me give you a quick FX sensitivity for Canada and USG Boral in case rates do move further.
Taking into consideration hedges that we have in place as of March 31 for Canada our net exposure to a 5% change in the Canadian-U.S.
dollar exchange rate is approximately $4 million for 2015.
And then looking at the USG Boral JV for 2015 a 5% change in the underlying current season the JV versus the U.S.
dollar could impact our equity method income by $3 million a year as well.
A final point on our outlook: we are absolutely committed to organically de-levering our balance sheet.
We have some upcoming debt payments.
And in particular our $500 million bullet that is due late next year which is clearly in our sights.
And we also have additional debt that we will also pay down as we march towards our leverage target ratio of 1.5 to 2 times debt-to-EBITDA at the mid-cycle.
So with that I'll turn things back to you Jim.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Matt.
Before we open it up to questions I'd like to share a few thoughts on our market outlook for this year in 2015.
Our first quarter results reinforce our view on the positive direction of each of our key markets.
On new residential we continue to believe in 1.1 million housing starts for 2015 which represents about a 10% growth and this is inclusive of any headwinds that we see in some of the oil and gas regions of the Southwest.
If housing starts come in north of 1.1 million we're well positioned to manage the upside and as you know we always have a contingency plan for any headwinds that we may encounter.
While this is a more evenly paced residential recovery here in the United States it's different than in past recoveries.
But we do believe that a stronger extended recovery will enable us to generate more value versus a quick peak followed by a trough market.
Now moving to new commercial.
The continued improvement of the U.S.
economy and labor market is supporting an increase in non-residential construction.
Commercial starts are projected to increase 9% in 2015.
Now as a reminder our products lag commercial starts by about 12 to 18 months and not all starts impact our business the same way.
Saying that we believe we're going to see steady improvement in commercial this year with growth rates for our products in the mid-single digit rate.
Now turning to repair and remodel.
When we look at this end-market for this year we consider the data on existing home sales commercial renovation projects and U.S.
home prices we expect to see mid-single digit growth this year.
This is in line with some outside experts like the Harvard Joint Center for Housing and their leading indicator for remodeling activity.
Last but certainly not least I'd like to discuss our market opportunity in the 12 USG Boral countries.
As you know we have the number one or two position in the markets that USG Boral serves.
This is a great growth potential – or excuse me – there's great growth potential in these markets and we're seeing it from urbanization and adoption of Western construction practices and both of these play into the sweet spot of USG Boral products and systems.
As Matt just mentioned currency is currently a headwind but we still see mid- to high-single digit growth expected in these regions.
Also $50 million of synergies is going to be realized over the next few years.
In capturing price premiums in this market there's a lot for us to be excited about in the USG Boral countries.
So with that I'd like to open up the call for question.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
And our first question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
You may begin.
Good morning.
It's actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
My question is related to Ceilings.
I was hoping you could give us some more color in terms of what you're seeing in terms of your Ceilings volumes from a regional perspective.
And then as you think about some of the trends that you're seeing between a higher-end ceiling versus the lower price points and how much mix helped the business for the quarter.
And then also if you could talk about the different commercial end markets that you're selling to on the Ceiling side and where you're seeing relative strength.
And then on the new construction front versus repair and model as well if you could give us a little bit of color in terms of what you're seeing there that would be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So that was about five questions so I'm going to try to wrap that into one but thank you for your questions.
We're really happy with our Ceilings results.
And the growth in volume in the quarter was really on the premium.
You hit the nail on the head on our premium products our high-end products.
And we're seeing much more specifications on the high-end with open-office spaces.
Light reflectance is very important; the noise reduction is extremely important because you don't have a lot of closed office spaces now; and those are our high-NRC or noise-reduction-coefficient ceilings.
The good news is we invested on the last couple of years at a couple of our plants one being Cloquet Minnesota to expand our high-end premium line.
So the growth you saw in the first quarter was on our high-end ceilings and what – the good news about it – those are high-margin products as well.
So the trend is continuing that way and that's one reason why we put some capital over the last couple of years there.
In parts of the country I like to say there's kind of the golden horseshoe of commercial construction starting with the Silicon Valley out west working its way through California and the Southwest.
And up probably into the D.C.
area where it tends to slow.
So we're seeing nice growth there.
Our contractors are starting to report good backlogs which is good for the commercial opportunity.
But our ceilings not only go into new commercial they're very big in remodel and office space.
What we're looking at from an opportunity in the commercial markets the office construction is the strongest part of the commercial recovery.
That is a double-digit growth 10% 11% opportunity improvement in office.
Education is the next area is followed by retail so those are really the three top areas that are the subsets in the commercial recovery which again it's coming from a very low base but we're starting to see some nice green shoots in that segment.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Robert Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
You may begin.
Hey good morning everyone and congrats on a very very solid quarter.
Also congrats on some...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Bob.
...congrats on getting rid of the boats.
That's got to feel good.
Wanted to ask you you had 270 basis points of operating margin expansion in U.S.
Gypsum and you had really strong margin growth of 630 basis points in Ceilings.
And I just kind of want to understand what's driving the huge margin expansion you're seeing in a relatively low volume environment.
Is it sustainable? And if you're getting this better mix shift in Ceilings in particular that you called out what should we be thinking about going forward for margin profile for these businesses? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well thanks Bob.
I appreciate your comments and the margin expansion in both Gypsum and Ceilings we're very focused on and it's really all three.
We got price improvement ahead of inflation in both wallboard and ceiling tile.
We really focused on plant efficiencies and costs and that's something we don't talk a lot about but our wallboard plants are running at all-time highs.
We look at recovery speed and delay.
And also we got some volume lift.
We had a 9% volume lift in wallboard and we think this year the market is going to be relatively strong compared to last year from an opportunity standpoint.
So it's really all three: price volume and cost.
And we're going to continue to press on each one of those.
If you look at past recoveries on the wallboard business as capacity utilization increases that gives us some opportunity for margin expansion.
And on Ceilings the trend really is on the high end.
You're starting to see less of the – as we call it – commodity tile being used even in homes.
So that's one reason why we invested the last couple of years in our plants because we were actually sold out of our high-end ceiling tile products.
Along with that is our strategic sourcing efforts on grid.
We really watch where the world prices are on steel.
And we want to make sure we continue to get margin expansion on our leading grid business too.
So there's not one lever we're pulling here Bob.
It's where we're controlling the controllables.
And we're very focused on costs and efficiencies getting that value proposition from our products to get margin expansion.
And we think the market finally on the commercial side is going to give us a little help.
Got it.
If I could just sneak one in.
Matt Hilzinger mentioned he's lowering SG&amp;A spend by $20 million.
How much harder can you push the cost control story? I wasn't expecting this that you're growing revenues and growing the business but you're still taking cost out.
Are you taking meat out? Are you getting close to the bone? And that's it.
Thanks very much and good luck.
Bob that's something that we've been doing for 113 years at USG.
We're very focused on cost not only at the plants of running it efficiently but running it safely.
We feel that we can use a weed-and-feed scenario where we feed growth projects but there's other areas that we want to continue to have more efficient ways to do things.
And one of the – one of our big initiatives is Lean Six Sigma.
And we think we can be more efficient and take costs out and grow the business.
So it's a little bit of an ambidextrous strategy but we feel that we can continue to keep our breakeven low and grow our business with products and new innovation.
And that would equate to great margin expansion of your question earlier.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
And our next question comes from Michael Wood from Macquarie Group.
You may begin.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Congratulations on the results.
Could you just give a little more color on the wallboard cost reduction year-over-year whether or not you think that may be sustainable throughout the year? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We did get some headwinds or some help with natural gas.
That's something that helped us year-on-year.
But we also had inflation and other input costs in wallboards.
So we have a very focused approach on strategic sourcing.
We look at all of our commodity costs and we're very – we run a very lean organization.
We believe in automation is very important in our manufacturing processes.
So cost containment at our plant is extremely important.
And running our plants – and we've learned to run our plants at still some fairly low capacity utilization rates.
So as capacity utilization improves which we think it's going to that's also going to help our efficiencies there.
So it's running the plants with as much automation as we can doing it safely strategic sourcing.
And then with the – hopefully increase of capacity utilization with demand increases all will help maintain our positive cost management.
And this is Matt Hilzinger if I could just add onto that.
So the $2 million that you saw in the cost improvement quarter-after-quarter as Jim said it really came from efficiencies to higher volumes.
So we expect to continue as Jim said around the volume piece so we'd expect to get some benefit there.
And then we did get a pretty big tailwind in the first quarter for natural gas.
And we would expect some tailwind in the later quarter but not quite as great as what we saw in the first quarter.
You may recall just last year with the polar vortex it was – natural gas was pretty expensive.
So I think the tailwind in the first quarter for natural gas was probably higher than what you'd see through the balance of the year.
So I think as Jim said we're going to continue to drive and manage our costs but I think that delta is something that was driven primarily by kind of natural gas this quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for the color.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes from Suntrust.
You may begin.
Thank you.
You had some great wallboard volumes in the quarter you and the industry.
So my question is talking to your distributors is this being characterized as a pre-buy? Was the volume even throughout the quarter or is this the demand they're seeing? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
The volume we saw in the quarter was not a pre-buy.
That would have been in the fourth.
You'd have seen that in the fourth quarter of this year.
You saw – parts of the country were very very strong so this was a good solid increase.
Now there – we did have some tough weather last year but if you recall January and February were still really tough in the Northeast this year.
So probably 20% of that volume increase you could take away because of weather last year on a comparison but even backing out 20% of the 9% 10% growth it was good organic growth.
And we think this year from a volume perspective is going to be better than last year.
So we're starting to see each one of the segments with commercial always being lagging.
We've been talking in the past about commercial being choppy and we're starting to see some good slow growth in commercial which is going to help overall demand.
Is this kind of pace sustainable for the year? Or this kind of growth rate? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We don't give – the overall projections if you look at what we shipped last year as an overall industry there's various industry reports that show that the growth this year is anywhere going to be between 5% and 10% depending on what report you look at.
So you're directionally correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow Research.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Congratulations.
I just wanted to follow up on the wallboard volume question looking specifically at distribution your volumes were up 15% and it outpaced your selling volumes about 9%.
I'm just wondering if you could talk maybe a little bit more on why distribution volumes outpaced your wallboard manufacturing volumes by that extent.
Was there some regional variance? Was there some market share opportunities that you're taking advantage of? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's a great question and you touched on one area.
We're in a very regional business that L&amp;W Supply.
We always talk about it as one but it is a very local regional business.
And just to remind everyone L&amp;W we really don't have a footprint in New England.
So New England got hammered with weather.
So we think that had an impact on our – we were basically this year where the weather wasn't as bad compared to 2004 (sic) [2104] (39:06).
So it was a regional.
Also we're starting to see as you know L&amp;W is linked a lot with the commercial business and we're starting to see tighter production schedules.
Our large commercial contractors are starting to see shortages in skilled labor.
So getting the product on time on the job safely is really important for us at L&amp;W Supply.
So our contractors tend to go to the reliable distributors and we feel that we've done a great job with our current customers in the region.
So it's really doing a great job in a tight-skill market for our commercial contractors and it's a regional situation because we aren't in New England.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
You may begin.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much guys.
Wanted to ask about the Gypsum business.
The way we run the numbers it looked like you realized a price increase year-on-year of about 2%.
And I was wondering if you could give some color around maybe the puts and takes around the price growth that you saw? I'm thinking in terms of regions was there any regional impact differences I should say and maybe customer mix and that kind of thing? Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Stephen.
Just to kind of – let me step back a little bit on our wallboard price and frame a couple of things up.
As we said and I mentioned many times about our value proposition that we have going to the market we innovate and you've heard a lot about innovation things like UltraLight innovation all the way through to architectural specifications to the job site.
We're very vertically integrated.
We make and deliver it but there's a lot of work that happens specifying our products and particularly getting a wallboard into our customers' hands.
And if you wrap it up we're number one or number two in each one of these positions.
Our Gypsum portfolio is more than wallboard.
As I mentioned our Substrates and Surfaces are big.
Our Ceilings L&amp;W.
So I like to say we go from the lab to the lobby of a building.
And quite frankly it's a value proposition that's kind of hard to match in the industry.
But when we look at price improvement we're in a very competitive market and we do get a premium in every – most if not every market we serve on wallboard.
So if you look at the – if you do a channel check of what a customer would pay for USG versus Brand X we do get a price premium.
We look at – we also – and that's just not on UltraLight as well.
This is a price premium on – just regular Sheetrock classic.
What we've been looking at is how could we grow our margins Stephen and we want to continue to beat inflation and most importantly expand our margin.
So we're in a very competitive market.
There are some regions and segments we got more price increase than others but I'm pleased to report that we did get price improvement if you look nationwide.
So we're going to continue to focus on beating inflation.
If you look from a historical standpoint as capacity utilization improves and demand improves we hope to get margin expansion not only through price but also cost containment as I said earlier.
So we're – as the CEO I always would prefer and really push our people to get more price improvement.
Am I ever happy on a certain amount? No.
I mean even the last few years I'd like to get more and more.
But we beat inflation.
We've controlled our costs and we think we're still in those mid innings of the recovery.
So we're optimistic about continuing to outpace the inflation.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So I guess just to paraphrase or to clarify there really wasn't any particular region or customer type that was meaningfully different in terms of the price contribution this quarter right? That's what you're saying? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's nothing real meaningful – some were up more or less.
It is a regional business.
We got stronger price improvement in certain areas where demand is stronger.
But there wasn't any big outliers.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much for that.
And our next question comes from Phil Ng from Jefferies.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Did time of the wallboard price increase come through a little later this year? So would you see more contribution in 2Q or is this a pretty good run rate for the rest of the year? And I guess longer term do you expect any dislocation in your business due to the way how you're implementing your price increases here for 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
What we expect this year Philip is basically the steady price throughout the year is similar to what you've seen the last few years.
So there may be a little variation as we see.
We ship product into Canada.
There's different segments but you're not going to see a bounce around up as we go into the quarter.
We do have a not-to-exceed price.
So it does give us an opportunity to – if we have quoted a customer one price and it ended up at a different level we have a not-to-exceed so it does give us some flexibility.
But again that's been in our pricing policies the last four years.
So that should be basically in your models what you see now.
As we look at 2016 as I said in my prepared comments our pricing this year goes to the end of October.
We think that's a very positive approach for us.
We're fine-tuning the strategy that we feel has worked really well for our customers and ourselves.
And we'll be having those discussions sometime late summer with our customers to talk about 2016.
Okay.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
And our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
You may begin.
Hi.
Good morning guys and thanks.
I just wanted to ask on the distribution business if you were to look over the last year or even the last two years about 10% of the revenue growth is dropping down to profit.
Is that your expectation of the business sort of on a run rate basis? And if not how do you think about either improving that or how that might trend in the near-term? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The way – if you look at the historic returns of L&amp;W mid-cycle returns are around 4% to 5% for the business.
And we've done a lot of work as I mentioned.
We flattened the organization.
We have some very focused operational proprietary operational initiatives.
And we're very focused on the commercial business which if you look at previous cycles we were more heavily weighted on residential.
So historic mid-cycles around 5% for the business.
If you would believe the initiatives we put in I would hope we would have something greater than that.
I'm sorry Jim when you're talking return you're saying the margin? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Trey Grooms from Stephens.
You may begin.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hey guys.
This is Drew Lipke actually on for Trey.
Sticking on the L&amp;W piece when you look at that from a strategic perspective longer-term we're seeing a lot of consolidation in the distribution end market.
What's kind of the longer-term outlook for you guys strategically with that piece of the business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> As I mentioned our core business is North American manufacturing and distribution.
We think having L&amp;W gives us a strategic advantage from a vertical integration.
It gives us lens to 30 000 contractors plus the opportunity to get profit for the corporation on products that we don't manufacture.
Just to – if you recall more than half of the products that L&amp;W sells and distributes are non-USG products.
We're the largest distributor of ceiling tile and grid commercial insulation steel studs.
In fact one of the early indicators we're seeing of an early recovery in commercial is our steel stud business is extremely strong which is very early in the cycle.
So we believe that getting the returns is very important.
As I said in the previous call we're very focused on getting the returns not only to mid-cycle returns but improving on those.
And we think it gives us a strategic advantage in the market.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson from Thompson Research.
You may begin.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions today.
For U.S.
interiors how much did volume and price contribute to earnings in the quarter? And just for wallboard could you reconfirm what you said earlier in your prepared comments you were at full capacity utilization.
But could you clarify that capacity utilization and just reconfirm that you have no desire to reopen idled capacity.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me touch on the idle capacity Kathryn and I'll turn it over to Matt so that he can tick and tie some of those numbers but we feel that as I said if there's an upside to the 1.1 million housing starts we still have room at our current facilities to take care of those needs.
At this point there is absolutely no intention or decision to have idle capacity.
Anything we've idled is old capacity it's inefficient capacity and having very efficient operations is extremely important from a cost perspective.
So we feel with the volume that we see over the next 24 months that can be handled with some staffing.
Staffing would be the first thing we would do and that's about a three- to six-month process to staff a plant which is the most inexpensive way to do it.
But you have to make sure that the demand is durable.
The next would be a line that would done at a current facility.
And the third would be idle capacity which right now is not our plans.
Hey Kathryn.
This is Matt Hilzinger.
Just responding to your question on Ceilings.
As Jim said earlier in his prepared remarks we had a very good quarter in Ceilings.
Margins improved to over 17% on the EBIT line so about 430 basis points and it came from both price and we had a tile increase in February that came through that helped us.
We made some progress on the cost side in part by volumes but in large part due to a lot of the cost measures that Jim had outlined and then we had a little bit of volume.
And I would – we had about $2 million worth of volume.
And as Jim said we've seen some resurgence back in the commercial market.
And I think that's what's really driving that.
So when you look at the margin and you look at price on tiles we have had and as Jim said we've seen a continued increase in the higher margin products.
And that's generally about a third of our business.
And not to get into details for all sorts of reasons but we've seen a reasonable shift in that part of the business over the last two years.
And from a capacity standpoint I think we're positioned pretty well to be able to put more of that product out in the marketplace.
And I think we will – we feel very good about where Ceilings is going particularly based on what they've done here in the first quarter.
Great.
Thank you very much.
And our next question comes from Todd Vencil from Sterne Agee Corp.
You may begin.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Just a couple of follow-ups on things that you've already touched on.
One is: you talked about the input cost particularly on the (52:23) on wallboard and also ceilings.
Can you unpack the cost of your inputs and talk about maybe what other inputs were up a little bit in the quarter and kind of how that balances maybe some numbers on what the benefit was from (52:39) versus maybe higher costs on some other parts of the mix.
And then – could you – you mentioned that your steel stud business has been very strong.
Can you talk about how much volumes there are up? Thanks.
Hey Todd.
This is Matt Hilzinger.
So on the cost side on wallboard just to remind everybody I would think of it as kind of six components.
So you've got waste paper at 20% gypsum rock which is 15% all the other raw materials is 15%.
Energy is 15%.
Labor is 15% and then fixed is about 20%.
So if you think about those we clearly benefit from the volume going through the fixed component.
We saw increases in labor so we had a wage increase in – during the – at the beginning of the year.
And we've seen gypsum particularly synthetic gypsum increase year-over-year as well as some of the other raw materials.
Waste paper is up a little bit but we're generally seeing inflation in most areas.
On natural gas we did see – as I said in my comments we did see natural gas come down a little bit from what we saw in the first quarter.
So last year full-year all in our cost for natural gas was about $4.15.
And I think at the end of the – or the beginning of the first quarter on our last call we said hey we would expect that to be about flat.
Well we've actually seen natural gas come down right? I mean the forward curve right now is about $2.80.
We're about 75% hedged.
So I would say that on 15% of the input cost we could see a little bit of a tailwind.
Whether that will offset all of the inflation we have in the other components I think that's an open question right? I mean that's something that we're going to obviously watch and manage as best we can but we would expect to see some tailwind on gas if the forward and the spot remain relatively low.
So I think we saw a bigger tailwind in the first quarter than what we saw in the – than what we'll see in the second third and fourth quarter.
But as you know natural gas moves around and we'll see a little bit of fluctuation.
So I thought maybe I'd turn it over and let Jim address your question on steel studs to give you a sense of what's going on there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
I'd mentioned the results at our Distribution business on steel and if you look at just logically with the building – as buildings are being constructed the studs go in much earlier.
As I've said and you've seen our lag on commercial construction for most of our products is 12 to 18 months 18 months with ceilings which goes in last.
12 months is typically wallboard and steel studs may be even sooner than that when you build – when you fit out a tenant improvement.
So that's kind of a leading indicator that we're starting to see some green shoots in commercial which we believe is very positive not only for L&amp;W but for the rest of our portfolio.
And we saw a nice 10% 11% increase in steel studs and this is not from a dollar this is a unit standpoint so we took out any type of inflation or deflation in the price and that's just from a unit basis.
So that's just one metric of many.
And we're still cautiously optimistic on commercial but I think we're past thinking about it as being choppy.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> That's great.
Good color.
Thanks a lot.
And we have time for one last question.
And our last question comes from Mike Dahl from Credit Suisse.
You may begin.
Hi.
Thanks.
Just wanted to go back to a previous question and just on the whole idea of staffing versus the idling capacity and asking specifically about the SG&amp;A changes.
In the previous SG&amp;A expectations was there contemplation that you'd be adding a shift at some point in 2015 and is that the main – one of the main drivers of the decrease now that maybe you've shifted that out to 2016.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
Adding a shift would not end up in SG&amp;A.
So the SG&amp;A is really basically overhead costs that we see.
The corporate office IT.
So that was programs that we paused or stopped.
So that was true.
SG&amp;A reduction had nothing to do with stopping at our plants.
Yeah.
I would add on the SG&amp;A side Mike it's really – it was a combination of a lot of things.
Right? I mean we looked at our IT.
We bought some IT.
We actually looked at doing some things more internally versus external.
Right? External consultants cost a lot of money.
So we've looked at internalizing some of this.
We've been very judicial on head count where head count matters – where we need to have it; we've scaled back a little bit in our marketing.
We're scaled back a little bit in our travel.
Right? I mean we need to travel in a thoughtful way to go see our customers and our vendors.
But we've scaled that back.
So there's been an overall general belt tightening.
It's been very thoughtful and very very focused.
And those areas of the business that we still believe that there is an opportunity whether it's R&amp;D or new products we're going to make the investments there.
So this is not – we aren't starving the business.
We're making the investments where it makes sense.
So I hope that's helpful.
Okay.
That is helpful.
Thank you.
Then a quick second question.
And sorry if I missed this but...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> We have to wrap this up Mike.
I apologize because we still had some people in queue that did not get their questions answered.
So we would like to wrap up on the one question.
And we do appreciate your interest and I apologize to the folks that were in queue that did not get in and we hopefully will be able to answer all your questions in the future.
But with that I'd just like to wrap up and just say we appreciate your interest in USG.
And as you can probably tell with Matt and my comments that we're pretty optimistic about 2015.
We're a company that's looking at improved demand in all of our end markets.
And these end markets though are still below historical averages.
We're positioning ourselves to organically pay down our debt and that's really important.
We're very focused on our balance sheet and we want to have a strong balance sheet getting into the next cycle.
We're laser-focused on our core operations and hopefully that came through in some of the comments we had earlier and through the Q&amp;A.
And we're working hard.
As Matt just said we're focused on SG&amp;A and head count and cost containment.
But we're working very hard to bring new and innovative products to market.
And we have some really cool things that we're going to be talking about here very soon.
And we're going to continue to bring products to our customers that make them more successful.
I'm really proud of what we've accomplished so far.
But quite frankly I'm more excited about what we have ahead.
So I appreciate your interest and questions.
And we'll look forward to catching up with you next quarter.
Thanks Jim.
A tape replay of this call will be available until Thursday May 7.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 USG Corporation Earnings Call.
My name is Christine and I will be the operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Ryan Flanagan.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call and live webcast.
We will be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under Securities Laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumption of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
These statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
In addition please refer to our earnings press release and presentation slides for disclosures and reconciliations on non-GAAP measures used when discussing our results and outlook.
With me today to discuss the second quarter are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into businesses.
Matt will then review the financial results for the corporation and the business segments.
We'll then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
We'd like to ensure everyone has an opportunity to ask questions so as always when we get to the Q&amp;A session callers are asked to limit themselves to one question.
Jim? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Ryan and good morning.
Let me start by saying we had a very strong quarter and half way through the year we're really seeing momentum build in all of our businesses.
We had the best adjusted net income since the fourth quarter of 2006.
The fourth quarter of 2006 think of that that's when they were over 1.6 million homes being built.
We had growth and expanded our margins in all of our businesses and our USG Boral joint venture continues to grow.
I'm looking forward to reviewing these wonderful results and taking your questions but first I'd like to take a minute and touch on our strategy.
USG has a history of leading the building products industry.
Our Gypsum Ceilings and Distribution businesses now coupled with USG Boral in Asia and Australasia are successfully building on our history by executing our plan to win.
By strengthening the core of our North American manufacturing and distribution businesses diversifying our earnings base through USG Boral and differentiating through world-class innovation.
We at USG are building a stronger and leaner company.
The story on USG today in 2015 is both positive and I'd like to say straightforward.
We expect demand improvement coupled with expanding operating margins which you're going to see in the current results.
And going forward we will generate the levels of free cash flow to support our debt paydown strategy and continue to reinvest and grow our business.
Now let's turn to some details of the quarter.
In our Gypsum segment all three of our businesses wallboard surfaces and substrates contributed to achieving the best adjusted operating margin since 2006.
In wallboard increased volume lower nat gas costs and cost reductions through our Lean Six Sigma programs drove margin expansion in $14 million of improved profitability.
Surfaces and substrates which are critical components of our Gypsum segment these are products like our leading market share joint treatment and our growth product commercial roof board they provide a full portfolio of products for our customers.
These important products and sales of these brands drove $9 million of incremental profit and the volume of our Securock commercial roof board hit record levels during the quarter.
Moving to Ceilings.
We saw margin expansion improving to just over 19%.
Ceilings earned $25 million in adjusted operating profit; improvements came from pricing and cost for ceiling tile that drove performance over a very strong 2014 comp second quarter.
Now to L&amp;W Supply.
We continue to see improving trends with operating margins more than doubling in the quarter.
Comp store sales increased 5% and wallboard volume was up 7%.
Adjusted operating profit of $9 million is the highest in over seven years.
While I'm very pleased that we're moving in the right direction at L&amp;W we still aren't to our expected ROIC targets and we still have some work ahead of us but we're making progress.
USG Boral turned in another strong quarter with adjusted operating margin breaking to 13%.
We continue to see conversion of our standard plasterboard to our UltraLight or in that part of the world NextGen board during the quarter.
Adjacent product volume grew led by joint treatment with Australia being the strongest market growing at 10% per adjacent products.
Realizing synergies in our combined business has been a major focus and we are tracking ahead of schedule and I'm very pleased with those results.
In fact 16 months into the joint venture we now estimate that USG Boral has realized 20% of the targeted $50 million that we've talked about in past calls.
Before Matt takes a detailed look into our second quarter results I'd like to update you on our plan to win.
Last quarter if you recall I reviewed our advancements in part of our plan to win on strengthening our core as we continue to make progress in North American manufacturing and distribution and you see those in the results.
Today I'd like to review how we differentiate through innovation and specifically come back to our substrates business.
While wallboard and surfaces primarily are installed in the interior of either a residential or commercial building many of our substrates products are used in the exterior envelope of a commercial building.
Last month we partnered with Tremco which is part of RPM International out of Ohio and we announced a new exterior air and water barrier system with the product that we call Securock ExoAir 430.
This innovation answers the challenges that our customers have been having with existing systems and bringing them a better solution.
With this new product the air barrier system is pre-applied during the manufacturing process compared to being sprayed on the job site.
This makes it easier to install with less material waste and provides a better system for our customer and the owner of the building.
As you've seen in our UltraLight portfolio products ease of installation is key for our customers particularly commercial construction where labor rates are extremely high and USG premium products help reduce those labor costs.
We're in an introduction phase of this system but the customer response has been great and I'm very excited about rolling this product out throughout the country.
Product innovations in growth businesses like substrates give us a larger share of wallet in that commercial business that helps diversify our earnings.
Before I turn it over to Matt to talk more about the details I want to cover one of additional topic.
There was a hearing last week to approve the settlement of our antitrust class actions and given that no one came to the hearing to object we are very optimistic that the settlement will be approved.
In addition we've become aware that a federal grand jury is investigating domestic wallboard manufacturers including U.S.
Gypsum over what appears to be the same issues raised in these class actions.
We're fully cooperating obviously with this investigation.
And as we've said in the past and this is very important we establish our pricing and selling practices independently and are in full compliance with the law.
We do not expect this investigation to have a significant incremental impact on our financial results.
So with that I'd like to turn it over to Matt who will dig into the financial results for the quarter and I'll come back with some comments before Q&amp;A.
Matt? Thanks Jim.
And good morning everyone.
I'll kick things off by walking through our consolidated results for the second quarter.
Our GAAP net sales were up 2% to $970 million and our GAAP net income was $79 million with diluted earnings per share of $0.54.
Before discussing our adjusted results I'll offer a brief reminder that beginning with this quarter our current and prior period results exclude the results from GTL our shipping operation that we exited in April earlier this year.
In addition we do not expect any continuing financial impact of GTL going forward.
So in order to compare our sales and earnings on an apples-to-apples basis in this quarter and all quarters going forward our adjusted sales and earnings numbers exclude all GTL activity.
So with that said adjusted sales for the second quarter improved over 4% and we saw margins expand across all of our businesses.
Our adjusted operating profit improved by almost 40% and our adjusted net income of $78 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.53 were up 80% over the prior year.
And we generated $169 million in adjusted EBITDA our highest since the fourth quarter of 2006 and almost 25% higher than the second quarter of last year.
So let's move to our segment discussions and I'll start with Gypsum.
During the second quarter we saw a significant margin expansion and operating leverage with $20 million of improved adjusted operating profit to $97 million.
Adjusted operating margins improved by 270 basis points over last year to 15.7% due to a combination of improved volumes higher prices and lower costs plus we're seeing very solid growth in our non-wallboard surfaces and substrate divisions which I'll discuss in a moment.
Let me give you a little bit more detail regarding our U.S.
operations.
In our U.S.
wallboard division volumes for the second quarter were up 5% slightly above the industry and price was stable from our first quarter of this year.
We also continue to see lower costs which contributed $7 million in improved operating profit in the quarter.
Lower natural gas represented about half of that favorability with the other piece coming from a combination of our operational efficiency efforts or raw material costs including waste paper.
I'm very pleased to note that our surfaces and substrate divisions added $9 million of operating profit over last year across a broad platform of new and existing products including increased volumes and pricing in Fiberock and Securock roofing products plus improved volumes of joint compound coupled with better pricing and lower costs due to efficiencies.
I'd also like to highlight that we're providing new incremental disclosures on our surfaces and substrates division starting this quarter so you can better see the value that these businesses drive.
Specifically we will now quantify their sales volumes and their relative EBITDA contributions.
As you can see in our slide presentation surfaces and substrates is a substantial part of our portfolio with about 47% of U.S.
Gypsum's revenues.
They had strong top line growth of 8% to generate $207 million in sales during the quarter and they represent approximately 30% of the EBITDA generated by the U.S.
Gypsum company or about $35 million.
The margins on surfaces and substrates are a bit lower than wallboard but they are really fairly stable over the cycle.
So I'm pleased with how these businesses are performing and their potential for the future.
Moving to Ceilings.
Our operating margins for the second quarter expanded by 60 basis points to over 19% generating $25 million of adjusted operating profit.
During the quarter we continued to see some mix shift to higher margin products with premium tile products now representing roughly a third of our tile portfolio.
Improved pricing was led by our tile products with the majority of the increase driven by mix shift.
And as we just saw in the Gypsum segment lower natural gas cost combined with our continuing Lean Six Sigma efforts drove costs lower and expanded our margins.
Turning to Distribution L&amp;W earned $9 million in adjusted operating profit a $5 million improvement over the second quarter of last year.
We saw increased volumes in wallboard and our other core products and we were able to capitalize on those increased volumes this quarter.
Same-store sales were up 5% led by wallboard volumes of 7% and delivery costs on a percentage of sales basis were flat.
And as Jim said we certainly have more work to do but real progress is being made.
Moving to our last business segment our USG Boral JV adjusted operating profit for the total JV was $35 million up $12 million from a year ago with operating margins expanding to about 13.3%.
Please note that the 510 basis point improvement and operating margin is really closer to 290 basis points when you adjust for the roughly $6 million in facility damage costs incurred in last year's second quarter.
Even so that's really terrific growth.
USG's share of the JV's net income amounted to $13 million in the second quarter of this year a $7 million improvement.
Almost all of which was driven by the JV's strong operational improvements that Jim mentioned earlier.
Regarding dividends from the JV we did receive our first dividend from the JV in May amounting to $18 million.
This is the first of many dividends that we expect to get as we are targeting to pay out at least 50% of the JV's earnings going forward.
As I said in the past the JV is expected to be completely self funding including capital needs and the potential earn-out payments to Boral.
So as of now the dividends are being held overseas to fund the expected earn-out payments to Boral.
I'll shift gears and now share a few thoughts on our financial outlook for the year.
On the SG&amp;A front last quarter I said that we were scaling back our SG&amp;A spending for 2015 by at least $20 million to $325 million for the full year.
This quarter I can reiterate that we are fully committed to meeting or beating the $325 million target for the year.
Regarding the second quarter total SG&amp;A spend was in line with our expectations at $79 million.
As I mentioned on our last call the spending pattern for this year is expected to be different than last year with slightly higher spend in the second and third quarters with significantly less spend in the fourth quarter.
Regarding taxes I want to reiterate that based on our forecasted profitability in the U.S.
we are still projecting that we will release nearly all our portion of our $1 billion domestic valuation allowance by the end of 2015.
And in fact we may see a portion of that release coming as early as next quarter.
Again this is actually very good news as it's based on positive earnings growth.
As a reminder when we release all or a portion of our valuation allowance we'll realize a massive non-cash income tax benefit connected with the reversal of the reserves.
And then beginning in 2016 we'll start to record income tax expense on the P&amp;L for substantially all of our U.S.
earnings.
But what's really important here is that we will not let me repeat we will not pay cash taxes until we fully utilize our $1.9 billion of net operating losses and other carryover benefits.
So simply put this does not impact cash only the P&amp;L.
From an income tax expense standpoint we anticipate our annual global effective tax rate will be between 29% and 31%.
There will also be no impact to the results of USG Boral which are recorded net of tax.
And there is no new impact to Canada and Mexico as we already record tax expense on those countries.
For the remainder of 2015 and until we release the valuation allowance expect that our tax expense to amount to roughly $2 million a quarter.
Let me address foreign exchange exposure as well.
Across the whole USG portfolio including USG Boral FX headwinds amounted to about $7 million for the quarter and about $12 million on a year-to-date basis.
About half of the $12 million is for Canada and the remaining half is split equally between Mexico and the JV.
Looking at the back half or the second half of this year we think there is additional exposure of about $3 million to $5 million assuming rates stay stable for the balance of the year and taking into consideration the hedges that we already have in place.
A final point on outlook we are absolutely committed to organically delevering our balance sheet.
We have some upcoming debt payments and in particular our $500 million bullet that is due in November of next year which is clearly in our sites.
We have additional debt that we will also pay down as we march towards our leverage target of 1.5 times to 2 times debt to EBITDA at the mid-cycle.
And with that I'll turn things back to Jim.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Matt.
Before we go into Q&amp;A I'd like to briefly discuss what we see in our end markets and share some of our insights of what we expect for the balance of this year and going forward.
Let me start out with new residential and probably a lot of this isn't new news to you I think we're looking at the same numbers.
But our forecast is for the year 1.1 million starts.
As you know some of the low seasonally adjusted starts earlier in the year were skewed by weather but we do see positive signs.
We see demand increasing for first-time homebuyers which has been really a key area with first-time homebuyers increasing to over 30% 32% of sales and that's up from 27% a year ago.
We're also seeing strong job growth which has helped return homebuilder confidence to the highest levels in nearly a decade.
Now in new commercial we're expecting mid to single digit growth for 2015 with USG's primary sectors of growth would be education which is the largest sector under the commercial umbrella followed by office and retail.
Another encouraging sign that we saw yesterday and many of you probably did is the ABI reading that hit its highest level since mid-2007 which is another encouraging sign that commercial is starting to show some life.
We're well below historical levels in commercial but we feel that we're in the early stages of recovery and this is very important sector in our business.
Repair and remodel which to remind you is about 50% of USG's business and we see continued growth in 2015 and beyond.
Existing home sales drives R&amp;R spending as buyers typically remodel their homes of first 12 months to 24 months after a purchase and our products typically are involved in that remodel project.
In addition commercial repair and remodel employment levels continue to improve as you've all seen.
And one really important thing that we're starting to see is office vacancy rates have dropped to 13.5% which is actually the lowest level since 2008.
So all in both residential and commercial repair and remodel we expect low to mid single digit growth in 2015.
With USG Boral – and Matt touched on the great progress we're making there and we're very enthusiastic about that partnership.
We're forecasting mid to high single digit growth and we expect continued margin expansion.
As I mentioned earlier the value proposition of our NextGen plasterboard relative to standard board has been a key part of this growth and improving our margins but also level setting all those manufacturing plants with the USG manufacturing way has really helped USG Boral lower manufacturing costs as well.
As commercial buildings in that part of the world are being designed more and more with western construction practices the demand for USG Boral products including the adjacent products that are very very important ceiling tile grid and Fiberock are going to add to that growth.
So all in all we're very optimistic about the year.
I think we've had a really good quarter.
We're excited about the opportunities that we've shared with you today.
And with that I'd like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
And congratulations on a very strong quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Bob.
I just wanted to ask you I haven't heard you this enthusiastic I don't remember.
And thanks for the color on the end market demand that's really helpful.
Can you help me understand how you see among your three businesses the recovery like engaging each of those businesses.
And I'm just trying to understand from your perspective what are you most excited about right now in the portfolio? And how do you think the recovery unfolds? Does the Gypsum business engage first followed by L&amp;W? How should we thinking about the trajectory of that? Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay Bob.
Thank you.
Yes actually I'm very excited.
You look at the quarter we had it's the best quarter since 2006 which we basically had 1.6 million housing starts and that was a whole different environment.
I think one of the keys has been lowering the breakeven and all the cost reduction and hard work that this organization has done over the last few years that just shows the amount of leverage we have.
Actually what I'm most excited about is seeing commercial coming back.
We've taken the term choppy out.
We've used that term choppy.
Commercial is very very important for L&amp;W Supply.
We've repositioned L&amp;W; as I said we aren't where we need to be but we're making progress.
It's very important for our Ceilings business and quite frankly it's important for our Gypsum wallboard business.
So that's been the lagging factor.
If you look at commercial I talked about ABI consumer confidence is up 17% year-on-year and vacancy rates which I think are very very important.
One other thing we're seeing in commercial if you look around the high-rise construction a lot of the high-rise construction today falls in the residential numbers but they're mostly rentals or high-rise rentals which L&amp;W plays a key part in with steel studs commercial insulation and commercial products.
Now on the other side of that there's not ceilings in those high-rise rentals.
So you have to kind of look at those high-rise residential units almost like a commercial unit.
So all-in-all I'm really excited about seeing some life in commercial.
It has a big impact on our businesses.
And we think residential is going to continue to grow.
So we're going to continue to take costs out introduce new products and hopefully deliver the results that we've done this quarter as we go forward.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Congrats on the strong quarter.
Based on the hedges you guys have in place do you expect to see a comparable amount of benefit from lower natural gas? And with waste paper prices rising do you expect incrementals you've seen in Gypsum in 2Q to be sustainable in the back half? Hey Phil.
It's Matt Hilzinger.
Why don't I take that.
As Jim said we continue to do everything we can to lower the breakeven.
And we saw some good cost momentum in the first quarter.
I think in the Gypsum business we saved like $2 million year-over-year and now in this quarter it's about $7 million.
And I would split half of that in natural gas.
I'd put a little bit in – some benefits that we've gotten around raw materials and then I think we're getting the efficiencies.
If you think about 20% fixed cost and 15% conversion we're going to leverage somewhere between 30% and 35% as volume goes through and all the cost efficiencies that were going.
So in the second half of the year what I would think is look we're going to continue to get some leverage on the fixed costs and get our improvements.
I think we're going to have some tailwinds on natural gas not as big as we saw in the first half.
This quarter in particular we benefited from kind of a very low spot rate.
So 25% of our natural gas was unhedged.
We took advantage of a very low spot rate.
That's moved up from about $2.30 to about $2.80 to $2.90.
I think we'll still get a little bit of a tailwind in the second half but we're still seeing some inflation.
We're seeing inflation in synthetic gypsum we're seeing inflation in labor.
We've had that and we're seeing some inflation in some of our special ingredients.
So all in all what I would think about as you think about the second half is I think you'd probably see costs maybe go up a little bit in the second half compared to last year maybe flat best case.
But I think there are some good tailwinds and look we're doing everything we possibly can in this company to manage costs.
And so that's what we're trying to do.
Very helpful.
Can you just provide some color on how the hedges are set up in the back half and going into next year? Yeah.
Very similar to the way they were set up in the first half.
Se we're about 75% hedged.
So our all-in hedged price right now is around $3.80.
If we continue to have spot prices of call it $2.80 $2.90 I think that will translate into maybe $1 million to $2 million a quarter on natural gas benefit.
So not quite as much as we saw this quarter but I think we'll get a little bit of a benefit.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Very helpful.
Yep.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Congratulations.
Just a question on surfaces and substrates and you're offering bit more disclosure on that and we appreciate it.
It looks like you did 60% incremental margins in that business this quarter.
Recognized that over the course of the cycle it's less volatile from a margin standpoint relative to wallboard but that 60% figure is pretty impressive you called out a couple of items that contributed to the profit growth.
But I'm just wondering as we're starting to see that business inflect is there any sort of additional guidance you could point us towards incremental margins in that business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We really appreciate the – looking at the U.S.
Gypsum business in a different way and that's one reason Garik that we wanted to unpack that a little bit for you.
And one of the key areas is we have competitive situations that we want to keep proprietary.
These are industry leading products.
We have loyalty from our applicators.
We have a very strong market share.
Most of those products have a market share that's 2x over wallboard and as you say less volatile margins.
So we're going to crawl before we walk there.
We wanted to open up the envelope a little bit so you can understand the Gypsum margins.
I think sometimes U.S.
Gypsum gets compared to other companies that don't have these products.
And I think the key here is you have strong market share loyal brands and the volatility of the margins.
If you go back to three years or four years ago they were rock stars in the portfolio because Gypsum margins were lower.
So you can go back 15 years or 20 years and those margins really stay relatively in a small span.
So we want to give you this first round and we just want to make sure that things that we provide aren't proprietary – that we want to keep proprietary that give us a competitive advantage in the market.
Okay.
There's nothing in that business that would suggest a breakout form the kind of the historical margin standard deviation though? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
The surfaces business is – that is joint treatment that's the green lid – we're continuing to expand.
We've probably introduced more new products in surfaces and substrates in the last year which we really don't talk about.
A lot of line extensions.
It's really taking costs out.
These are very – for example joint treatment are very regional products.
So if you're in the desert you have to have a different formula than if you're along the coast.
So we're always expanding the formula.
Breakout products and really the area that I'm most excited about is substrates.
It's a growth business.
The commercial roof deck business our market share is fairly low but we've been growing at double-digit rates.
And when you look at the amount of commercial roofs that need to be repaired and replaced the average age of a commercial building is 40 years old.
So if you say breakout I mean that substrates group is really an exciting group of – when we talk about surfaces and substrates that we're continuing to introduce new products.
The one that I talked about it with Tremco is very early.
We don't know how big that's going to be but that could be something that gets attention.
So joint treatment very stable growth leading market share is continuing new products but substrates is a part of it that – I don't know if I'm going to call it breakout but it's a very exciting growth initiative in the U.S.
Gypsum segment.
And Jim let me add.
This is Matt.
If you look at the $9 million that came through on surfaces and substrates about half of that was volume and the other half was split equally between kind of price increases that we've gotten and efficiency so we've reduced costs.
So we've expanded margins in that business but we're also getting very good volume.
As I said we've gotten about 8% top-line growth.
So...
Great.
Thanks for that.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tim Wojs from Baird.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Hey guys.
Nice job on the cost side.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Tim.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I guess just a question on Gypsum volumes.
Some other people in the industry have talked about a little bit of impact on the commercial construction side that may have delayed some construction activity timelines.
I'm just curious if that's something that you guys saw in any sort of regions across the country? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Obviously Texas Houston got a ton of rain and that's slowed up a lot of commercial buildings in that Texas Oklahoma areas so absolutely.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And I guess is there any way to think about – does that kind of help in as you get into the back half of the year? Is that kind of something that winds up kind of shifting demand a little bit in the 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Our projections for the year really haven't changed.
I think it's just – it may be a quarter shift here and there but things get delayed and it will be just a little bit of catch-up in the quarter.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
On L&amp;W you cited the flat delivery cost as percentage of sales I'm just wondering if you can comment on what you could do further and improve that margin profile and whether or not there has been any products folded into that segment recently to help accelerate the growth.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Mike this is Jim.
From your question on the products L&amp;W we really focus on seven core products.
We aren't really big in lumber.
That's why we don't play in the resi side.
Steel studs commercial insulation largest distributor of ceiling tile and grid in the country.
So we want to be the best at the seven core products.
So no nothing gets folded in I mean fasteners and things of that nature but the seven core products are something we want to stay very focused on.
On delivery that is a real focus area for us.
We have really three areas; we're looking at logistics we're looking at inventory and we're looking at branch rationalization.
So on the logistics it's things like truck turnaround loading trucks faster safer.
So that's all the key to how long it takes us to – can we get an extra turn-in.
If you get an extra turn-in at a branch that really helps the profitability.
So we are all over that.
We have a Lean Six Sigma team that's focused on that and that's really key to the profitability of how efficient and safely that you can deliver products.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Dahl from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
This is actually Matt Bouley on for Mike.
Thank you for taking my question.
Just going back to the non-res environment just given some of that improving data and thinking about your $325 million SG&amp;A target for the year what would happen to SG&amp;A if you did see an acceleration in volumes in the second half? And how would you think about potentially adding shifts or capacity in that environment? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're very focused on SG&amp;A and as Matt said we expect to hit that $325 million regardless of where volume comes.
That's the key that's why we have leverage and we're delivering the same earnings that we did in 2006 and any type of volume increase we do not expect SG&amp;A.
I'll turn over to Matt he can talk about our philosophy on shifts.
Yeah.
Matt.
Any shifts that we might add actually go through cost of the sales.
They aren't going to run through SG&amp;A and quite frankly we've got very strong – we've got a lot of capacity right now.
Our effective capacity is running around 79% almost 80% a little stronger in some parts of the country little less in others.
We typically will run that up to over 90% and then maybe add a shift.
And one of the things that we're very focused on is through Lean Six Sigma what we're doing in the manufacturing environment is when we bring a shift back one we know that it's durable demand but two we're doing things to drive efficiency.
So we just – we don't want to bring a lot of people on and then at some point have to maybe let them go if demand is not there.
So on the SG&amp;A target as Jim said we are laser-focused on our costs and in the plants we've got plenty of capacity to meet demand should something spike up in the second half or either next year.
So I feel very good about where we are in costs.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And just to follow up on the adding a shift just so everyone – we are adding some capacity in Southern California.
And this is high-end specialty products that we had to ship from Texas.
So this is a something that it's our glass-mat product it's something that product that is high margin high demand in that part of the world and we took a very focused approach about putting a specialty product in that part of the world.
So if you hear about that that is what we are doing in our Plaster City California plant.
And just add on to that that glass-mat panel is the green stuff it's the green panels that you see when you're driving around not the yellow stuff yellow is bad green is good.
Got it.
Thank you and good luck.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much guys.
Yeah I guess first question I just wanted to sort of clean up on the nat gas and the hedging.
Obviously you've sort of laid out what you thought it might be for the next couple of quarters but if I'm not mistaken I mean if nat gas sort of stays where we are I mean would it be your expectation that you'd see a pretty meaningful benefit in 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Stephen how are you? Inc.</span></strong> Doing great.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good.
Look we have not provided guidance on 2016 but I think directionally you're correct.
I mean I think if prices stay low we would end up with some kind of tailwind in 2016.
I think it's too early to get into exactly what that would be but clearly I think there is some opportunity to get some tailwind there but we're also seeing some inflation right? So that would help offset whatever inflation we might see on the labor on the synthetic Gypsum side.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Great.
And then secondly with respect to the 2Q...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Stephen excuse me.
This...
Inc.</span></strong> That's right forgot it.
One question my apologies.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's okay.
We have a few people in queue.
So I apologize.
Inc.</span></strong> No it's fine.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks guys.
Matt I guess just one question I had with respect to how to interpret the same-store sales trends within the Distribution business.
It sounds like that the data you guys were seeing on the non-res you're comfortable that that's accelerating and I know that's got a tilt towards non-res but your same-store sales went from 10% last quarter to 5% this quarter.
Is there something unique in the comparisons or anything that you're seeing in the business that would kind of explain that variance and then maybe if you see some acceleration coming in the second half of the year there? No.
The way I would think about it and I hate to drag 2014 into the conservation but I think you got to go back to 2014.
In 2014 the first quarter was really pretty light right.
So we had – if you fast forward to the first quarter of this year wallboard volumes were up close to 10%.
And I think part of that I think if you go back what we said was part of that volume increase that we saw in the first quarter was in part due to the weather and the polar vortex that we saw in 2014.
So I think when you think about going from 10% to 5% on wallboard volumes and you think about the comp store sales I think they kind of flow together.
And so I think part of this is weaker first quarter last year against this year stronger second quarter against our second quarter this year.
And so I go back to what Jim said in terms of the guidance for the balance of the year housing starts up between 1 million and 1.2 million.
I think we're in the midpoint there about 1.1 million mid single on commercial and low to mid on residential.
I think if you blend all that together you're kind of in the mid-single digit on volume growth.
And I think L&amp;W is getting a benefit from the high-rise resi that Jim called out right? I mean if you take a look at the housing starts almost all of that is coming from high-rise resi.
So we're encouraged about what we see going on out there and we're encouraged about where L&amp;W is but we don't see any anomaly that we think would shift the trend from what we've seen in L&amp;W for the second quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Trey Grooms from Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Trey.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Jim I think on the last call you mentioned and you were talking about kind of the timing of the pricing around wallboard and I think that you said that the current pricing put in place in January this year is good through October which was a change.
Is that still the expectation there on kind of your thoughts around the timing? And any kind of thoughts you can give us behind that change would be great.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes Trey.
That's exactly what we're talking about.
We did move our price for this year our 2015 wallboard price it's not to exceed is effective through October 31 so the end of October.
And as we get – so to answer your question we have not changed our philosophy on that.
As we get closer we're going to look at demand and inflation and everything we typically have done for actually the last five years to determine whether or not to exceed price will be for November 1.
So those are the factors that influence our pricing decision.
So we're still on that course.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just kind of the thoughts behind that change from going from October to I guess November 1 – excuse me January to November? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> One of the big changes is the pre-buys caused a lot of angst with our customers.
And in our conversations with our customers we floated the idea of moving the price into an area where it's the busier time in the season and it would minimize if not eliminate some of the pre-buys that our customers really either participated in or it had a negative impact on their business so that was the main reason of our discussion with our customers on pre-buy.
Inc.</span></strong> I see.
Makes sense.
Thanks a lot Jim.
Good luck.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you Trey.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson from Thompson Research Group.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions today.
Pulling the string a little bit more on the non-res cycle for your U.S.
interiors business the ceilings business what were volumes contribution to the top line in the quarter? And then shifting a little bit to look at your L&amp;W division could you give some clarity for what were sales volumes for steel studs specifically? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The tile volume? Kathryn could you repeat the question on the tile volume I wasn't – your connection wasn't really good sorry.
Yeah.
Sorry about that.
What were volumes for your ceiling tiles for your U.S.
interiors business in the quarter? And then similarly for your L&amp;W division are you able to break out what your steel studs sales volumes were in that division or at least what your overall revenue growth was for steel studs and for L&amp;W? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
On the ceiling tile for the quarter we were up over the second quarter of last year; volumes were up.
If you take out the second quarter of 2014 it was the strongest quarter we've had since the third quarter of 2013.
So it was a – from a ceiling tile we don't break that out Kathryn the number but the volume was up.
On steel studs for L&amp;W we do not break that out we don't disclose that but the volume was up with steel studs at L&amp;W.
In fact if you look at complementary products I talked about the seven core products.
Most of those products are trending the right way.
And steel studs and I think you're heading in the direction on non-resi.
Steel studs are a leading indicator of what's happening with non-res or the multi-family high rise and we really watch that steel stud number but we don't break that out.
But you wouldn't – it's our assumption that you wouldn't perform materially different than what industry checks that we may have? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'm not sure what your industry checks would say.
Okay.
Great.
We're seeing mid to high single digit volumes but understand that you can't be specific about volumes.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
It's good to hear your ceilings volume's up.
To the last question sales in total were really only up like $1 million and grid and tile volume has showed it's not a contributor to operating profits.
Can you help me kind of reconcile maybe give us a feel of how much the ceiling tiles were up? Yeah.
As Jim said we don't give specific – this is Matt Hilzinger.
So we don't give specific information on ceiling tiles but they were up and grid was down a little bit that's how I would think about it.
So I think part of this is we've seen – Jim talked a little bit about the repair and remodel side doing pretty well.
So we don't give specifics on that but I think if you stand back we feel very good about how the ceilings business performed in the second quarter.
Volumes were up on tiles grid was down a little bit.
We did get a little bit of price improvement but we've also been able to see – and this is a continued theme that we've had in the business is a mix shift to the higher end tiles.
And I think we're seeing more and more of that with lead certification points and noise reduction requirements in commercial buildings.
We're continuing to see that mix move to the higher-end products.
So overall we feel very good about where the ceilings business is.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Just to follow up on Matt's on the high-end premium if you look at our overall ceiling tile volume that – those high end premium products continue to grow as a percentage of sales and they're now over a third of our tile volume which is these high-end tiles that Matt's indicating.
So we're seeing a growing trend and when you're getting to a product that's one-third of your line that's a really positive impact for the business.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
One thing that's been obviously happening is multi-family has been stronger than single-family and recent indications are that that might continue.
I'm curious as you look through your products how does that affect you? And are there any competitive differences for instance in the Gypsum business or maybe you're stronger in multi-family relative to competition than you would be in single-family or vice versa? Any color that these trends in the strengthen in multi-family might be having vis-à-vis your performance? That'd be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Mark I'm really glad you asked that question because that falls right into our wheelhouse.
Multi-family when you think of multi-family now it's not the apartment complex in the suburbs as I said earlier it's the 25-storey to 40-storey high-rise rental typically rental not a condo and I think condos sales just came out starting to show some life.
So these are high-rise rental units that are really commercial products.
These are commercial distributors stocking them i.e.
L&amp;W.
They have steel studs which we distribute.
You have to have high-end products like USG UltraLight because labor rates – in a multi-family construction commercial contractors are installing that.
So the labor rates for example in Chicago can be anywhere between $70 an hour and $75 an hour; New York City it's $100.
So our products with having UltraLight being lighter and easier to install fall right into that wheelhouse.
On ceiling tiles ceiling tile doesn't have a big impact there because you don't have a lot of acoustical drop ceilings in rental units maybe in the lobby.
But this multi-family is really positive for L&amp;W Supply because a competitive advantage is this there are very few competitors of distribution that can safely put products in high-rise buildings where if you're doing a single-family home you may have 15 competitors or 20 competitors.
When you're doing a high rise you may have five competitors.
And so you really have to have a unique value proposition.
So this falls right into our strengths as I mentioned our new product with Tremco which focuses on the exterior of a commercial multi-family or a commercial office building.
So that brings a bigger share of wallet for us.
Our Securock roof deck as I said earlier that would be on the roof.
So if you think about USG Corporation we're not only in the interior now we're in the exterior of hat high-rise and by the way we deliver the products that get it there safely.
Inc.</span></strong> And are you able to track if you've been able to maintain this competitive edge or are you finding that other competitors seeing the trends are going after the more multi-flash commercial opportunities more aggressively? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Mark we don't have a competitor that has the full value from manufacturing to the job site.
So if you think about the value proposition we have in – when we make the product we introduce new products.
We've introduced over 22 new products in the last year some of those we don't talk a lot about but our innovation is second to none.
We are the only manufacturer that also has distribution and I know there's been a lot of questions about L&amp;W but you can see the trends are getting better we aren't there yet.
So yeah we track it a lot.
Competition is very fierce out there.
There's a lot of different ways to get to these jobs but we feel from innovation all the way to invoice we put it in the job safely.
So I like to say we have a unique value proposition that our investors like.
Inc.</span></strong> Terrific.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jim Barrett from C.L.
King &amp; Associates.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Jim.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Jim one of your initial initiatives as the CEO was to go into the Boral joint venture.
That seems to be working out very very well.
Can you tell us whether in the event down the road in the future Boral was to exit – wish to exit their half of the joint venture where the USG has the right of first refusal? And could you tell us if that's true broadly what the terms might be? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes that's true and I'd love to have that opportunity.
All right...
Inc.</span></strong> Is there a set formula? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No there is not.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And Jim we appreciate your support over the years.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
We have time for one other question.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from James Armstrong from Vertical Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
My question is on the wallboard.
You talked more about the specialty products opening.
How much of the portfolio in wallboard is now from those specialty products? And could you talk a little bit about margin and growth prospects in the specialty business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> If you look at UltraLight and that's a – we wouldn't view that as a specialty product but that's a new product.
For half-inch it is now almost two-thirds of the volume.
The customers view the value proposition of UltraLight so we do get a price premium on that so the margin is better.
Securock is continuing to grow margins are very strong but what's great about Securock is the growth.
The growth is 2x of what you're seeing in regular wallboard growth and that's why it's really important for us to put products in the market as Matt said that are green.
And that will continue to add to the profitability.
But we don't break that out.
We're going to continue to break out surfaces and substrates as a whole but your are getting growth at higher margin similar what you're seeing on the Ceilings side with the high end premium product.
So that's why it's still important we have the innovation to come out with these higher performance products that have higher growth but more importantly have higher margins.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you.
I really appreciate all the questions.
And as you can probably hear from Matt and myself we're really pleased with the quarter but more importantly we're very excited about the rest of the year and the future.
As you said we saw that in the second quarter we expanded margins in all of our businesses.
We introduced some new products that help our customers grow and the USG Boral continues to help us win in a growth area in Asia and Australasia.
But I want to let everyone know we aren't content just to ride the wave of demand getting better.
And as we've said over the years we want to continue to create our own recovery which is – and we talked a little bit about it today is focused on cost reductions and we're doing that through Lean Six Sigma and advanced manufacturing.
With product innovation we're going to continue to deliver product extensions.
I said we introduced 15 new products to 20 new products but we also have some big ideas that we have in the pipeline that we hope to share with you soon but most importantly having our customers top of mind every single day.
We're very focused on customer satisfaction and really delighting our customers.
So we're going to continue to strengthen diversify and differentiate.
And we really appreciate your interest in USG today and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Jim.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Thursday August 6.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 USG Corporation Earnings Call.
My name is Christine and I will be the operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Ryan Flanagan.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call and live webcast.
We will be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumption of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
These statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
In addition please refer to our earnings press release and presentation slides for disclosures and reconciliations on non-GAAP measures used when discussing our results and outlook.
With me today to discuss the third quarter are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into our businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the corporation and the business segments.
We'll then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
We'd like to ensure everyone has an opportunity to ask questions so as always when we get to the Q&amp;A callers are asked to limit themselves to just one question.
Jim? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Ryan and good morning.
Before we dive into the details of the business I'd like to give you a brief perspective of the quarter the way we see it.
We had continued margin expansion in the Gypsum business with effective cost controls and pricing.
Our Surfaces and Substrates businesses continued to perform well as we talked about last quarter and drove increased profitability in the Gypsum segment.
In Ceilings our third quarter results are very similar to the second quarter performance but if you look at year-on-year results they are down compared to – it was a record quarter in 2014 so we had a tough comp.
We also saw margin improvement in L&amp;W Supply and we're seeing progress there with the operational improvement initiatives that are starting to pay off.
And USG Boral continues to grow and our margins continue to expand.
We also have the organization and I'd like to say controlling the controllables which means a relentless focus on operational costs and expenses.
In fact we're going to have lower SG&amp;A in 2015 compared to last year.
We also expect that trend to continue on expenses into next year with even lower SG&amp;A as we grow our business and we grow our margins.
And as we continue to focus on cost containment we're also going to invest in the business like our glass-mat board in Plaster City California and innovative new products that we continue to introduce into the market.
Now let's turn to the details of the quarter.
First in the Gypsum segment.
We're strengthening the core of our Gypsum business with margin expansion due to the performance of our Wallboard our Surfaces and Substrates businesses.
Wallboard pricing was generally in line with our expectation giving the demand environment.
Our Lean Six Sigma efforts have been instrumental in offsetting inflation in the business as well as improving our operational efficiencies.
Wallboard volume in the quarter was up 2% which was slightly higher than what the industry shipped but we had expected demand to be stronger.
Our Surfaces and Substrate businesses represent about half of the Gypsum segment.
We continue to grow that business.
Our efforts to differentiate through innovation are one of the reasons that this business has been so successful.
We've already introduced 25 new products this year and many of those are in the Surfaces and Substrates groups.
This is the fourth quarter in the row the business has contributed over $5 million in improved profit and we're excited about the new areas of the building particularly the commercial building where USG can grow with these new products.
One other point related to the Gypsum business.
Our Wallboard pricing has been in effect in 2015 and as you know is good through the end of October.
As we looked at projected third quarter demand a year ago we thought it was going to be much stronger at this time.
In reviewing the changes to near-term Wallboard demand and market dynamics we will extend our current pricing beyond October 31.
Demand is one of the most important drivers of pricing in this phase of the cycle.
The effective date of our next increase will greatly depend on demand but we're also going to look at import costs and market factors that will enter into our thinking.
It's always been our policy we don't provide details on prospective pricing but we do expect to implement a price increase in all of our product categories next year including Wallboard.
Now turning to Ceilings.
I'm going to put a little context on our Ceilings results for this quarter.
As I mentioned a few minutes ago the third quarter of last year was the strongest quarter in the history of the Ceilings business with margins of almost 22%.
2014 was still the year of choppy commercial and the third quarter of 2014 was on the positive side of that market demand.
If you look at our business now Tile and Grid volumes excuse me were off but our margins were almost 19% which is very similar to the second quarter this year.
In fact if you look at volume which we follow very closely in Ceilings and Grid volume was up 3.5% and 2.5% respectively in Tile and Grid versus the second quarter.
And on a year-to-date basis we've also seen solid margin expansion in our U.S.
Ceilings business.
We truly believe that a mix shift towards the premium high-margin tile is sustainable and now we're well-positioned to grow in this category.
Our Ceilings business is extremely healthy.
Turning to L&amp;W Supply we doubled our operating margins in the third quarter.
Comp store sales increased 5% with improved volume aided by the strength in steel frame multifamily residential construction.
Multifamily is now approximately 37% of all starts with a large percentage of those buildings being urban high-rise apartment and condos.
These buildings have the same product characteristics as a commercial job but they do have minimal ceilings opportunity but this provides an opportunity for L&amp;W Supply.
At L&amp;W the operational improvement initiatives that we've been implementing are starting to get some traction.
We're focused on some key areas: inventory management our truck utilization further centralizing our back-office functions and overall cost control.
As I mentioned in the last call we're making some progress at L&amp;W but we still have work to do.
We are optimistic on the future.
With revenue approaching $1.5 billion in L&amp;W continuing to expand our margins is a significant opportunity for us at USG.
Now I'd like to turn to USG Boral.
USG Boral truly diversifies the earnings of our portfolio and operating margins expanded once again despite headwinds from foreign currency.
The performance in Australia Korea Thailand and Indonesia were primary drivers of our results in the quarter and our price premium on NextGen plasterboard which is the UltraLight product in that part of the world is now over 5%.
Wallboard volume was down slightly in the quarter in the region particularly due to some of the regional macroeconomic wins that we see coming out of China.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Matt and he is going to go into some more details on the quarter.
Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I'll kick things off by walking through our third quarter consolidated results.
In terms of our adjusted results let me remind you that we had several adjustments impacting last year's third quarter.
Among them the litigation settlement charge asset impairment charges and the sales and profits from GTL our shipping operation that we exited earlier this year.
So with that context for our third quarter our adjusted net sales grew 2% to $972 million.
Adjusted operating profit improved $8 million to $115 million.
Adjusted net income increased by almost 25% to $76 million and we earned $164 million in EBITDA.
What's important to note is that our underlying performance was actually better than that because of the negative effect of foreign exchange on our P&amp;L specifically the appreciation of the U.S.
dollar across other currencies.
For the quarter our revenue of $972 million was depressed by $26 million because of foreign currency valuations and we took an $8 million hit to our net income this quarter.
And while we do foreign exchange hedging where it makes sense operationally it's very difficult to escape the impact of a rising U.S.
dollar across other currencies.
So with that let's now dive into segment results.
In the Gypsum segment adjusted net sales for the third quarter were $610 million compared to $601 million last year and adjusted operating profit increased $4 million to $89 million for the quarter.
Our higher operating profit on wallboard was driven by three principal factors: improved pricing lower product costs and higher volumes albeit softer than expected at 2%.
The improved operational performance was somewhat offset by an expected uptick in SG&amp;A for the quarter and foreign exchange headwinds which amounted to a $4 million drag on operating profit in the Gypsum segment alone.
On the SG&amp;A front as I've said on the past two calls we will spend less this year than we did last year.
I've also said that we expect SG&amp;A to be higher this quarter than last year due to timing of projects and spending and it was.
But most importantly and I'll touch on this again later on in my remarks we expect SG&amp;A to be down significantly from last year's fourth quarter spend as we will beat our $325 million annual SG&amp;A guidance.
So the uptick in SG&amp;A doesn't represent a structural shift.
It's timing and it was consistent with our plan and our expectations.
Looking at our Wallboard costs they were better than last year primarily driven by the tailwinds of lower natural gas costs which was about $2 million for the quarter.
We continue to see inflation in manufacturing wages synthetic gypsum costs and paper and raw material costs but we successfully offset these headwinds by manufacturing efficiencies and other benefits this quarter.
Our Surfaces and Substrates division is included in our Gypsum segment and it accounts for nearly half its sales.
Surfaces and Substrates had another very strong quarter with revenue growth of 8% and $6 million of additional profit.
The growth in this division is being driven by a combination of new product introductions innovations within existing products and growing architectural and contractor acceptance.
A great example of this is to look at a relatively new product that we've introduced into the roofing market.
It's a cement-based panel marketed as USG Structural Panel used primarily in mid- to high-rise residential and a broad variety of commercial roofing applications.
We're seeing strong acceptance of this product into a roofing market that is really new to USG and one that we really haven't served before.
Frankly our market penetration is growing because our structural roof panels increase the speed of construction they are non-combustible they are more cost-effective than other alternatives and there are a greener more sustainable construction solution.
This is just another example of great innovation at USG that's driving the bottom line.
And while it's products like our roof deck panels coupled with joint treatment Durock and other Securock products that drove our results we also saw contributions from Fiberock and our other industrial products as well this quarter.
I'm very pleased that we continue to see margin expansion and positive volume trends in our Surfaces and Substrates division.
Moving to Ceilings net sales were $130 million for the quarter down from $137 million last year.
Setting aside the record-setting quarter that we are comping from last year we earned $24 million in adjusted operating profit.
And although Ceilings' operating margins of 18.5% this quarter was lower than a year ago it's slightly ahead of last year on a year-to-date basis.
On the volume front our read on the market is that we maintained our share and remember last year's third quarter demand levels were very strong in part due to some demand that was pushed all the way out from the third quarter from the harsh winter of 2014.
This year the demand levels have been much more balanced quarter to quarter.
If you look at the volumes on a year-to-date basis Tile and Grid volume were up slightly over last year even though overall demand levels were softer this quarter.
Pricing was down on Grid and less so for Tile.
The mix of Grid products we sold during the quarter impacted pricing.
Regarding Tile pricing we did see the proportion of high-performance higher-margin tiles increase in our mix of products sold this quarter a trend that we've been seeing over the past couple of years albeit against a modest pricing pressure across the whole Ceiling landscape.
On the cost side we saw the positive tailwinds of natural gas and steel.
But they were more than offset by inflationary increases in labor maintenance and other input costs.
Moving to Distribution we made $9 million in adjusted operating profit this quarter and we saw operating margins expand 130 basis points to 2.4% from a year ago.
Higher volumes including deliveries into multifamily starts and the operational initiatives Jim mentioned earlier were the primary drivers of the improvement this quarter.
Just a quick comment on multifamily and L&amp;W.
Clearly we're seeing a lot more multifamily being built which is benefiting L&amp;W.
Constructing a steel frame multifamily complex is not that different than commercial construction albeit with much less ceiling opportunity for Tile and Grid.
So while L&amp;W is levered two-thirds to the commercial construction sectors the improving multifamily environment is proving very beneficial to L&amp;W.
Turning to the USG Boral JV our 50% portion of net income was $12 million for the quarter flat with last year.
But if you look at the results on a constant currency basis by taking foreign exchange out of the equation revenues increased by 2% to $292 million EBITDA increased by 20% to $52 million and we earned $15 million of net income a $3 million improvement over last year.
We continue to grow and increase profitability in this part of the world by focusing on our NextGen footprint growing our adjacent products and lowering our costs.
For example during this quarter we increased the conversion from standard Wallboard to NextGen lightweight board by almost 200 basis points from last quarter and it commands a higher price.
In fact Wallboard price is up in almost every single country in which USG Boral operates.
We also saw increased sell-through of adjacent products notably ready-mix compounds which were up 20% and we lowered our cost with manufacturing efficiencies combined with nice tailwinds in gypsum energy and metal costs.
On the flip side board volumes as Jim had mentioned were down 1% primarily driven to some slowing in China and a little bit in Thailand and Indonesia.
It's still too early to tell but it's possible that this slowdown in certain pockets of Asia could continue to drive some deceleration of growth going forward.
But with that said I still see absolute revenue growth in the mid-single digits.
Now let's move to our financial outlook for the year.
In terms of SG&amp;A we will beat our $325 million annual SG&amp;A guidance this year.
So doing the math that means that we'd expect consolidated SG&amp;A to come in below $88 million for the fourth quarter and that year-over-year benefit will flow through corporate as well as the business segments all in the fourth quarter.
Regarding taxes we will likely release nearly all of our $1 billion domestic valuation allowance in the fourth quarter.
As I've said in the past this is actually very good news as it's based on positive earnings growth.
And a quick reminder on the financial impact of a valuation allowance release.
When we reduce the valuation allowance we'll record a significant non-cash income tax benefit.
And then going forward we'll start to record income tax expense on the P&amp;L for our profit generated in the United States.
But most important to remember is that we will not be a federal cash tax payer until we fully utilize our $1.9 billion of net operating losses and other carryover benefits.
So again this has a books tax impact not a cash tax impact.
And on a going-forward basis our cash tax payment should continue to hover around $2 million a quarter.
Moving to our outlook on foreign exchange or currency devaluation last quarter we saw that – I said that if rates stayed stable for the rest of the year we'd expect a $3 million to $5 million headwind for the balance of the year.
Unfortunately rates have clearly moved against the U.S.
dollar since then and now just for the fourth quarter alone we believe that we will be unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange to the tune of about $10 million.
And that's assuming that rates stay the same as of the end of September.
And that $10 million is split about equally between our Gypsum Ceiling and USG Boral businesses.
Just as a data point on a year-to-date basis foreign exchange has amounted to a $20 million headwind to net income for USG through September.
A few quick words on the balance sheet and then I'll turn it back over to Jim.
As I've said previously we have set our eyes on the $500 million bullet that is due in November of next year.
After that we have a bit more debt to pay down to hit our leverage target of 1.5 times to 2 times debt to EBITDA at the mid-cycle.
All the while we continue to make internal investments to drive organic shareholder value.
One last thing as you saw in our press release last month we've reached an agreement in principle to sell our equity interest in our Knauf-USG JV for €48 million on a JV that generated $2 million in net income for USG in 2014.
The net proceeds from the sale are expected to be used to pay down debt.
And with that Jim I'll turn it back to you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Matt.
Before we go into Q&amp;A I'd like to briefly discuss our end markets and what we expect for the remainder of the year kind of building on some of the comments that Matt just gave you.
We're going to you a full 2016 view on our next call.
But again let me give some thoughts into next year as well.
If you look at new residential we're projecting housing starts this year to settle in around 1.1 million.
As everyone knows they came in at 1.2 million this week but as the numbers have been up and down really through the course of the year we are still encouraged by the data points that I think we're all seeing.
Homebuilder confidence has been at or above 60 with the latest report as everyone probably viewed was a 10-year high.
Household formation is up significantly after eight years below historical trends and homeownership continues to be at the lowest level in more than 20 years.
Now saying that in the short term we feel that we're going to see softer Wallboard volume that may continue into the fourth quarter.
Volumes in the fourth quarter could be impacted by less industry-wide surge buying than we've seen in the previous few years but we do expect 2015 volumes to be up in the range of 2% to 3% for the Wallboard business.
Turning to new commercial our expectation is the end of the year new commercial's going to be up in the 5% range.
ABI has bounced around a lot but it is showing positive trends.
Commercial project inquiries that we're seeing and design contracts for new jobs continue to grow.
Our customers are talking about nice backlogs and there is encouraging signs of further recovery in the new commercial business.
As a reminder our highest growth sectors are the education retail and office segments of commercial which have anywhere between a 9-month and 18-month lag for our products.
Turning to repair and remodel in commercial repair and remodel we still reiterate that we're going to see 3% to 5% growth.
It may be leaning more on the 3% range for 2015.
This is another area that we're seeing mixed macro data as of late.
Home prices continue to rise though.
As we know that's encouraging for residential repair and remodel but there has been a bit of a slowdown in pending home sales.
In commercial repair and remodel office vacancy rates continue to decline as employment improves which is obviously a positive sign for repair and remodel.
In fact where vacancy rates are now it's the lowest they've been since 2009.
In the USG Boral region Matt touched on some of the pending headwinds we see there the pace of growth at China.
But as a reminder the USG Boral business is not as we call it a China play.
We're in China but it's Australia Korea Indonesia and Thailand which are really the primary profit generators of our 12 regions in the USG Boral division.
All the projected GDP rates in our 12 regions at USG Boral including China are still projected to be at or above the U.S.
growth.
So we're still very optimistic about our business at USG Boral.
While it's possible that a prolonged slowdown may have some carryover effect it's still too early to quantify what type of headwind that's going to have on our growth.
But as Matt said we still feel that we're going to have the growth come through with the commitments we've made to our shareholders with USG Boral.
As we've done in our U.S.
businesses over the past years and we continue to do it we're going to have and do we have contingency plans at USG Boral if necessary.
But I'm confident we're going to continue to see the positive trends in this business.
Our key initiatives at USG Boral are realization of our additional cost synergies further conversion of standard plasterboard to NextGen and increased sell-through of Ceilings and joint compound products of which we're seeing some really early successes as Matt indicated.
Looking ahead to next year we're projecting 2016 market demand is going to be stronger than 2015.
In fact we're very optimistic about next year.
As I mentioned earlier we plan to implement price improvement in all of our product categories including Wallboard.
We project volume to be stronger in all of our businesses.
That's in our Ceilings business and all of our businesses we feel it's going to be stronger year-on-year.
Our plan is simple.
We want to grow our business and we want to lower our breakeven.
We're going to grow our business in some of the areas we've touched on: geographic growth with USG Boral; new products we're going to continue to put new products in our customers' hands as we've said that we have 25 new products that have been introduced.
Line extensions on the high-end; for example our high-end Ceilings line extensions as well as high-end Wallboard we're going to continue to extend those products.
And products as Matt indicated that are new to the industry and new to construction and we have some great new ideas in our pipeline coming out of our innovation center.
We're going to continue to lower our breakeven and we're going to lower our breakeven by focusing on our balance sheet with an eye to the $500 million coupon next year.
As we indicated we're going to continue to focus on lowering our SG&amp;A and grow our Lean Six Sigma operations to continue our excellent operational efficiencies at both our manufacturing and distribution.
So we're going to be an ambidextrous company.
We're going to grow the business and we're going to lower our breakeven and we'll do that to bring great results to our shareholders.
So with that I'd like to open it up for questions and we'll be more than happy to take the next half an hour and get your thoughts.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from Todd Vencil from Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
In the release you cited and Jim you talked about softer than expected demand in Wallboard in the third quarter and then continuing into the fourth quarter.
I realize that you mentioned that I think you used the phrase the surge but we are thinking about it in terms of pre-buy that may have a different timing if the price increases you end up having different timing.
But with regard to what's going on in the third quarter industry volumes up a little less than 2% you said you guys were at 2%.
That doesn't seem to jive with a lot of sort of the positive fundamental things that you cited otherwise and that we've seen in housing and non-res and things like that.
So could you help us understand how you ended up with 2% with softer than expected growth there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's a great question.
You look at all the macroeconomics that we've talked about it's very very positive which is good news.
The industry and really the industry was up less than that.
So you look at the overall industry I'm happy to say we did outperform but we did hit a soft patch and there is a couple theories here.
We feel that this is a short-term phenomena with the higher percentage of high-rise commercial or high-rise residential buildings that Matt was talking about have a longer lag.
The typical three-and-a-half months after a housing start we would typically see Wallboard demand.
We feel that's extended out now so that's a little bit of a lag.
You're starting to see some smaller units less per unit.
So we think this is just a – this quarter and maybe the next three months four months is just maybe a plateau but all the macroeconomics are there.
There is nothing structural there is nothing like they aren't pouring plastic into studs there is no product substitution.
We feel the macroeconomics are there.
This is a plateau a pause maybe a delay just because the construction has changed.
You aren't seeing the big housing tracts as well.
You aren't seeing housing tracts 400 homes 500 homes being built.
The builders are being very limited on houses coming out.
So we're still very optimistic about the macroeconomics.
This is we feel just a kind of a pause for volume.
Got it.
That makes a lot of sense.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
And to Mr.
Hilzinger nice way to tighten the SG&amp;A belt; that's good work.
Hey wanted to just dig in a little bit on Ceilings.
You had an extremely challenging comparison with the prior-year period.
And I'm just trying to understand and think more concretely.
Is this a pricing issue for you guys? Is this a mix issue for you guys with a bias in your sales towards Grid over Ceiling? And you got positive trends going on you're outperforming the industry on Wallboard.
Should Ceilings start to track slightly more positive in line with Gypsum? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks Bob and we still feel very good about the Ceilings business.
Margins are great.
We had a tough comp but what we look at is we're starting to see some volume growth.
And we hadn't seen that if you go back two years ago we didn't see the quarter-on-quarter volume.
It's not huge growth but we've had four consecutive quarters with unit volumes on both Tile and Grid.
We don't feel we've lost market share.
We're in a very competitive market.
So there was a little bit of – we lost a little bit on price but that was really on more of our commodity products.
We just introduced in August some really great high-NRC premium products that quite frankly we don't feel that there is a match out there.
This came out of our innovation center and our scientists came out and these are 80 NRC and 90 NRC products which are on the very high end.
So no there is nothing systemic that we're concerned about.
We had a tough comp.
Our volumes are growing.
The commercial business is starting to show some life we're out of the view of choppy and I think it will start trending in the way that you're seeing in the Gypsum business.
So I think all hands are in good shape here.
If I could just sneak one in and then I'll hand it off.
How should we be thinking about cost inflation as well in Ceilings and Gypsum? Thanks and good luck.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Bob thanks for sneaking that one.
Hey we've seen inflation in virtually every input category that we've had other than natural gas.
So we've seen inflation in labor in Wallboard we've seen it in our synthetic gypsum.
We've seen it in some of our special ingredients our other raw materials.
We've seen it even slightly in waste paper.
You got to remember our paper plants are primarily in the Midwest and so they aren't as influenced by China's needs and so they don't fluctuate as much.
So there's been a benefit I think of waste paper on the East Coast and West Coast but where our paper plants are we haven't seen as much benefit; in fact we've seen a little bit of an increase.
So we were fortunate I think through a lot of efforts in the manufacturing team to go through with their Lean Six Sigma efforts to continue to take out costs and we had a couple of other benefits.
We had a small ARO accounting adjustment that helped offset part of the inflation in Wallboard this quarter.
So as I think about Wallboard costs in the fourth quarter and even Wallboard costs out into 2016 our expectation is that we're going to see some inflation.
I think we're going to get a little bit of a tailwind on natural gas similar to what we had in the third quarter we'll probably get that in the fourth quarter.
But I do think it's going to be offset by some inflation.
And then it's a similar story in Ceilings right.
I mean we've had price increases and cost inflation in labor and some of our slag and so it's a very similar story.
We've got a great team in our Ceilings manufacturing group that's putting in Lean Six Sigma practices and looking at some new automation and some things that I think are helping us.
But inflation is out there.
So as much as I kind of read that we're in a low-inflation environment that's not what we're experiencing here at USG.
Good stuff.
Good luck and thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Can you kind of break out how much of your business is tied to places where you're seeing weakness in Boral? I mean you called out China Thailand and Indonesia.
And I think if I heard you correctly Matt you're still expecting 3% to 5% top-line growth.
How are you thinking you're going to get there in light of some of the macro backdrop and does that account for FX as well? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me just touch on the markets and then I'll have Matt talk about FX.
As I said our region really isn't a China play but it does have a little bit of – it can throw a cold on the rest of the region.
The strong areas right now we're very strong in Australia.
You see Australia volumes up double-digit.
Australia is being fueled a lot by a lot of currency coming out of China.
There are a lot of Chinese investors in the apartment side of the business looking for investments there.
South Korea is very very strong.
The business is very – that's one of our key markets.
We've just put NextGen in South Korea so that's a great market.
Thailand and Indonesia have hit just a little bit of a soft patch in the quarter but have been very strong regions.
In fact this time last year we were basically on Wallboard allocation so we have a tough comp there but those are very solid regions.
So those are really the big four.
We do very well in Vietnam but that's a small region.
We have a new plant there.
We're doing excellence.
We have a new plant startup in Oman.
Again those are small numbers there but the Middle East is still considering what's going on from a political standpoint the Middle East for us is still a great market for us.
We just got UL approval on our products coming out of our Oman plant so we'll be able to do a lot of the high-rise work there.
So China does have an impact on the business but those are some of the areas that are still very strong and we're making sure we have all of our resources there.
Yeah.
Hey Phil it's Matt Hilzinger.
I want to echo what Jim said and that is we're still very encouraged about the prospects in that part of the world and China is slowing and we're seeing a little bit of that impact.
But that revenue growth number that I gave you was really kind of net of FX.
And in fact in the quarter their sales were depressed by almost $60 million because of FX.
So if you take FX out they're actually in double-digit top-line growth which is where we would expect them to be where we want them to be and where we're going to hold them accountable to be.
But if you look at FX through the balance of the year I think on a net-net on an absolute basis you're closer to call it 4% 5% 6% in that range.
So the underlying business is still really very good.
We would expect to see margin expansion both at the EBITDA line and the EBIT line as we progress through the next few quarters.
And absent some cataclysmic change in Southeast Asia I think that's something that the team's clearly going to strive for and clearly within our expectations.
Okay very helpful.
Thanks guys.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie Securities.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
You had mentioned some factors on the price decision that you'll have.
I'm curious if you have some idea of what type of demand growth you need to see in Wallboard to decide to implement a price increase and how much of a lead time would you need to notify customers on that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well thank you.
We would need demand a little better than what we're seeing right now.
Everyone is kind of perplexed on the overall industry demand kind of hit the plateau.
So we really look at we focus – really one key is we're in a regional business so we're going to look at regional demand is very very important.
We're always focused on improving pricing where we think it's feasible in Wallboard or really any products.
But you're right demand is really key.
We look out – probably we like to give our customers 30-day notice in conversations with them on what it will look like on any type of price increase – Ceilings Wallboard or anything.
So one thing that we're going to continue to evaluate the market and we're talking to customers now and really our pricing strategy for Wallboard is going to be not to exceed pricing for 2016.
And one thing that I just want to reiterate we're not offering job quotes that hasn't changed.
And our expectation is to get price improvement in Wallboard.
But right now we're looking to see what the demand looks like in the next 30 days 60 days to 90 days and we'll be making those decisions there but it has to be something greater than what we see now.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tim Wojs from Baird.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Hey guys.
Just on SG&amp;A you mentioned that you're looking for that to be maybe down again in 2016.
I'm just curious what types of SG&amp;A are you guys looking at tightening? I mean is this just general belt-tightening or is there maybe some structural things that you're changing to the business to just readjust the cost structure? Yeah.
Thanks for the questions this is Matt Hilzinger.
It's a combination of all that right.
I mean we've gone through and look we're really good at this and this is one of the tenants that Jim has laid out strategic tenants which is strengthen the core and it's all about lowering our breakeven.
So it's in SG&amp;A it's in our production costs with Lean Six Sigma.
So it's across a variety of things but I also want to say that we're investing in the business.
So it's not all cutting.
We're also making some pretty significant investments.
We've invested in Cloquet new high-quality laminating line there.
Jim had mentioned Plaster City and what we're doing around some of our specialty panels out on the West Coast.
You've heard us talk about Surfaces and Substrates.
So there are areas that we are investing in but clearly we're looking at expenses across the board and it's how we procure raw materials it's how we think about IT staffing and IT projects.
We've been very judicious on head count that's something that clearly is within our control.
We've looked at marketing how effective is our marketing and where do we really want to spend the dollars.
T&amp;E look we're going to put the people – we're going to put our folks in front of our customers but some of the what we call non-essential travel we'll pull back a little bit if we need to pull back.
Outside professional fees it's always amazing when you look at who dollars are going out to.
There's always opportunities to pull back on some dollars there.
So it's across the board and I can't stress enough what our manufacturing and our Lean Six Sigma team is doing for the company right.
I mean it's a lot of singles and a couple of doubles every quarter at every plant and that's helping bring in and maintain our – offset some of this inflation that we're seeing.
So look Jim said it and I'll reiterate it we're going to spend less than our guidance of $325 million this year and our spending is going to be lower next year and we're absolutely committed to that and so more to come on that as we get into the fourth quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> If I can just add on Matt's comments.
If you recall a year ago there were quite a few questions that you had about our IT spend and it was one of the negative variances when we showed you our results.
And this allows us to have less SG&amp;A.
We invested last year and the last couple of years and now we've been able to do things with technology.
Quite frankly our back office reducing our back-office spend.
I mentioned that at L&amp;W but that's across the network.
So we did have a spend last year on IT and we said it's going to result in us being able to go forward with a lower SG&amp;A.
So that's one of the advantages of that pay forward that we did last year.
So this is something that has – we always look at the market but this is a core competency at USG Corporation.
But as I said earlier we need to be ambidextrous.
We need to invest in the business and grow as Matt said and we're going to continue to do that and we're going to continue to focus on keeping that breakeven and lowering that breakeven from both a balance sheet perspective and operational perspective.
So you will continue to see more results on that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Well thanks.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks very much guys.
We've been hearing the builders talking about construction delays a lot in the single-family arena mostly due to labor and things like that.
And was curious as to whether you could – or took a look at that and have a sort of quantification for maybe what softness you saw in 3Q volumes that might be attributable to just a longer lag time between the start let's say and when you actually put the board and compound on to the walls.
If you could just give me – give us a sense for that that will be helpful.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Stephen thank you.
That's part of what we are putting in our thought process.
I talked about the lag we have a higher percentage.
If you look around in downtown Chicago most of the high-rises here 30-story 40-story 50-story they look like a commercial building but they're residential buildings.
So that has probably a 12-month lag.
But the labor shortages are real particularly skilled.
We see it more on the commercial side the builders are reporting that.
But commercial drywall hangers carpenters that is also an issue.
I think some of our contractors are being very measured about what jobs they take because of having skilled labor.
So that falls into the formula.
It's a little bit of everything here and we think we've hit a – it's kind of a plateau on the overall macroeconomics.
But I wouldn't say labor is a major part of this but it's a contributing factor.
And I wish I could quantify it but if you have a point of view of quantifying it we'd be really interested in your thoughts as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Absolutely.
Well we'll share that later.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning it's actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
So I know you discussed your highest-growth areas within the commercial end markets but I wanted to see for the quarter specifically within Ceilings if you could break out the different verticals in terms of where you saw relative strength versus weakness and where you think the most pent-up demand is there going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we started – the strength in the Ceilings business is on the high-end products.
The high-NRC products really really in growth there.
You're seeing the owners and architects specifying products where noise coefficient is really important.
You have open office space which is important there.
So that's why the investment in our high-end Ceilings and we just introduced as I mentioned additional products in August are important.
If you look at the overall business I've used the term before the golden horseshoe on the Ceilings business it's San Francisco down through California.
The East Coast is very very strong New York City is strong commercially which means higher office construction versus residential.
So really on Ceilings if you look at the growth of office construction that follows the Ceilings business.
The high-rise residential that we were referring to earlier has no Ceilings impact.
So you may be driving around a city and say my there is a lot of commercial business why isn't Ceilings growing.
It needs to be office or medical or education really where ceilings go in.
So when you break that out office construction really is the driver of the Ceilings business.
So high-end office construction are really the key drivers of new Ceilings growth.
Ceilings repair and remodels also very very important; that's kind of a hidden market there.
So that commercial repair and remodel for example when buildings get changed out so that vacancy rate is really a number we look at for Ceilings' macroeconomic growth.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Dahl from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to go back to the whole idea of Wallboard pricing and there's a few different things going on with the competitive environment and different times for the price increases that have been announced.
And clearly you guys have the not-to-exceed price and that's being extended.
But I think one of the concerns we hear from investors is that you're going to go through a period at the beginning of the year that may not be covered by any price increase for some others or even any price letter so it leaves room for some slippage.
So wanted to get your take on that and is there a mandate to the field to basically hold price at any cost at these levels even though it's not-to-exceed? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well really with Wallboard and all of our price increases first of all it's really key on the market demand and our value proposition.
We get – right now we have – with our value proposition we have a price premium in the market and we're always balancing our Wallboard price let's say you asked the question on Wallboard price with volume.
As you saw in the quarter our volumes even though the demand was not as strong as we thought our volumes hung in there our price hung in there and we do not expect any slippage particularly with the macroeconomics that we're all talking about.
We feel that depending on the timing we will get price improvement in Wallboard in 2016.
We are going to – our focus is to outpace inflation.
Matt talked about inflation.
So margin expansion in Wallboard and all of our products is very very critical.
So we have our eye on the market.
You talk about the people in the field.
Our pricing authority is very centralized.
We've been doing that for four years and we're very optimistic about 2016 and getting price improvement.
The question of when we will get it that's something we're taking under advisement now looking at some of the variables that I talked about earlier.
So with the market being better in 2016 from a demand standpoint versus this year we feel that price improvement over inflation is something that's very very doable.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks.
Just wanted to circle around on some of the slowdown in volume that you identified mainly the longer lead time in multifamily and commercial and the timing from when they break ground and when you start seeing Wallboard shipments.
But I am just wondering as we continue to see strength in these categories as we continue to potentially see some labor shortages on the housing side that was alluded to earlier you called out the lack of multi – you called out the lack of tract home development on the single-family side.
Is there a potential structural headwind to Wallboard demand over the next several years just due to the mix shift to multifam and commercial just given the shared wall phenomenon and could we expect to see a lower wallboard content per unit moving forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
I don't – no.
There is not a structural change.
The biggest structural change would be a product substitution and we spend a lot of time at our innovation center actually trying to reinvent a substitute for wallboard.
So that would be the big issue.
We think the lag has moved to three and a half months lag has moved.
Labor shortages is not a big issue there's still going to have to put up wallboard.
You look at commercial construction actually in commercial construction commercial high-rise you more wallboard not less.
You typically use two layers you have steel over steel studs.
So no we do not see- we view this as a plateau a softer quarter demand-wise.
So actually we've spent a lot of time on this and we've been doing this for almost 115 years and we see this as a short-term phenomena on the business and don't have any major concern structurally.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Question back on Ceilings.
You had mentioned some price pressure on Grid I believe at the low end – excuse me price pressure on Tiles at the low end.
Could you give us any more specifics on how pervasive was it and kind of what was the pricing if you look at your Tile business overall year-over-year how much is it down? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we are in a very competitive market and every day we get an order fighting for an order in the field.
So it's not a big movement there it's more on the "mid-to-entry-level tiles." So really the game's being played in the high end I mean that's the high margin that's where the growth is.
So I wouldn't be concerned with it.
It's just a quarter-by-quarter phenomenon 1 percentage – 1% 2% movement in our mid to – I hate to call it commodity tile but kind of our entry-level tile.
So one of the things on Ceilings is we have a great distribution network and we've been really focused the last few quarters on continuing to improve our acoustical ceiling distribution.
We've upgraded in some areas of the country which we're very happy about and we feel that the structural organization of our sales organization and our distribution really puts us in a nice position to continue the returns that we've had in this business.
So I wouldn't be concerned about a little bit of – that's kind of a quarter-by-quarter type of movement.
We are starting to see a little bit of volume growth as I mentioned earlier four straight quarters of some volume growth.
The macroeconomics are starting to give us some wind at our back.
So we are very optimistic about this part of our business and it's been kind of the hero through the recession.
So we are going to continue to grow the Ceilings business and get price improvement as I've talked earlier about Wallboard get the same type of price improvement in Ceilings above inflation as we go forward.
We have time for one other question.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from Matt McCall from BB&amp;T Capital.
Matt please go ahead.
Good morning.
This is Reuben in for Matt.
Thanks for taking my question.
So the incremental margin in the Gypsum business was down a little bit sequentially.
I was wondering if you could kind of walk us through the difference between the two quarters and maybe there is a lot of moving parts natural gas and paper costs and pricing.
What your thoughts are or we should think about that as we move into next year? Thank you.
Yeah.
This is Matt Hilzinger.
So look I think if you look at the quarter sequentially we had a really terrific second quarter in Wallboard.
Volumes were up for us in the second quarter 10% – excuse me – about 5%; they're at 2% now.
That does affect part of the leverage and the profitability that we see in the business.
I think on the cost side we had some good tailwinds you may recall in the second quarter.
We had a really strong tailwind with natural gas.
We had a tailwind in the third quarter on natural gas this quarter but it wasn't nearly as strong as what we saw in the second quarter.
So I think if you look at kind of volume of Wallboard and you take a look at what nat gas did in the quarter those are a couple of the big pieces.
But let me just – if you take a look at U.S.
Gypsum on an operating profit basis for – on a year-to-date basis through the first nine months our operating profit margin on an adjusted basis was 16% compared to just under 14% last year.
So on a year-to-date basis year-over-year we've been able to drive significant improvement in U.S.
Wallboard – U.S.
Gypsum.
And I just – I think look as Jim said you're going to get an ebb and flow a little bit on volumes and that has an impact in terms of kind of incrementals and overall profitability.
But I think the third quarter was actually a good quarter considering that we saw a little bit of a slowdown in volume.
So I'm pleased with where we are and I'm glad we did what we did in the second quarter.
I would love to comp it but I think we did a darn good job this quarter; I'm pleased.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back over to Jim Metcalf for closing comments.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you.
Just to kind of build on what Matt said we feel we had a solid third quarter and most importantly I'm really confident in the direction of all of our businesses and where we're heading.
We have a lot of reasons to be optimistic about the improved markets going forward.
But by maintaining an intense focus on the efficiencies that we have at our plants and in our L&amp;W locations with Lean Six Sigma the cost control we're prepared for a range of market conditions.
We are prepared for market growth and if we have a very short-term pause on demand we're also prepared for that.
We continue to execute our plan to win.
We're strengthening our core businesses.
I think you see that with the margin improvement in mostly all of our businesses this quarter.
If you look at it going forward we plan to improve margins in all of our businesses and we also want to diversify the earnings with the adjacent products.
You saw those results coming through in our Surfaces and Substrates business which are growing tremendously there.
We really are enthusiastic about that side of the business.
Our geographic growth we talked about USG Boral but I want to close on innovation.
And this is something that we're going to continue to invest in.
We have some great products that we are going to be introducing to the market.
We're working on big ideas products equal to or maybe even greater than what we put out with UltraLight.
We're expanding our UltraLight portfolio throughout the country on our 5/8 side of the business and we're very very enthusiastic about the future.
So we look forward to speaking with you in February.
We appreciate your interest and have a great morning.
Thanks Jim.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Thursday November 5.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you and thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2015 USG Corporation Earnings Call.
My name is Brandon and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note this conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn it over to Ryan Flanagan.
You may begin sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings conference call and live webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumption of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
These statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
In addition please refer to our earnings press release and presentation slides for disclosures and reconciliations on non-GAAP measures used when discussing our results and outlook.
With me today to discuss the fourth quarter are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the year and quarter plus additional insight into our businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the Corporation and the business segments.
We'll then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
We'd like to ensure everyone has an opportunity to ask questions so as always when we get to the Q&amp;A session callers are asked to limit themselves to just one question.
Jim? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Ryan and good morning.
Before I get into the details of the fourth quarter I'd like to take a minute and talk about what we have accomplished in 2015.
We had great progress in many areas and I want to highlight a few of these areas that we put across the goal line in 2015.
First of all most importantly adjusted net earnings improved by more than 75%.
Operating margins increased in all of our core businesses.
We generated over $600 million of adjusted EBITDA which is the best since 2006 and that's a year in 2006 where there were 1.8 million housing starts.
I think that's a remarkable achievement for the Corporation.
We delivered on our commitment to control costs.
We talked about costs throughout the year.
This has been a relentless focus that we've had at USG and we delivered that.
SG&amp;A in 2015 was below 2014 and also 2013.
USG Boral which we've talked about during the year is a key part of our growth initiative.
It generated $48 million in income and delivered $38 million in cash dividends.
And as the industry leader in innovation we introduced 25 new products during the year.
But finally and not taking our eye off our most important priority safety.
We were named one of America's safest employers which we're extremely proud of.
We advanced our plan to win in 2015 by strengthening our core businesses diversifying our earnings and differentiating USG through innovation.
I'm really proud of the progress we made in 2015 but what it does it positions for a successful 2016 and beyond.
Now I'd like to touch on the fourth quarter and then I'm going to turn it over to Matt and he'll provide some additional details of the fourth quarter and as well as 2015 and beyond.
In our Gypsum segment wallboard the surfaces and substrates businesses all drove margin expansion during the quarter.
In the surfaces and substrates division we continued to expand our reach in other parts of the commercial building.
This is a new business for us.
It's been growing over the last four years.
Our roofing products floor solutions exterior sheathing our tile backerboard all have helped us diversify our earnings.
For the quarter these products contributed $5 million of improved profit and this is not a onetime deal.
This is the fifth consecutive quarter that we had this level of improved profitability.
So we have a wonderful trend in this division.
In our U.S.
wallboard business we had a really good fourth quarter.
As we talked about with you and we projected that volumes were going to be down on the fourth quarter absent some pre-buy that occurred in 2014 but the key is we outperformed the industry with our volume only being down around 3.5%.
In fact we started 2016 very strong.
Demand in January exceeded our forecast of about 5% to 6% growth despite some tough weather that we all know we had on the East Coast.
Our price in the fourth quarter for wallboard held steady and was up about 2% for the year.
The important point is we want to continue to expand our margins in wallboard and it's vital to our success and that's our plan for 2016 which is no different than it's been the last four years.
Turning to our operations in our plants.
We continue to operate our wallboard plants at high efficiencies and our cost for the quarter improved due to the wonderful efforts throughout the entire organization.
We had safe operations as I mentioned but we had top recovery speed and delay (5:48) at our plants and this helped us with our Lean-Six Sigma efforts which continued to have success of lowering our breakeven.
Even with the favorable natural gas costs that assisted on our efforts our plants are operating extremely well and I'm very proud of this performance.
Now I'd like to make one final note on our Gypsum segment.
As always an important question you ask is on wallboard price.
Our pricing policy for 2016 hasn't changed from last year; just the timing.
We have not increased our price at this point but it is our plan to do so.
And as we've done in the past we will provide 30 days' advance notice to our customers.
Now I'd like to turn to our Ceilings business.
Our U.S.
Ceilings business had a record fourth quarter for operating margins.
That is a unbelievable accomplishment a record fourth quarter.
Now the main driver of this margin expansion was improved pricing in both tile and grid products.
And as we've talked about in earlier calls we continue to focus on moving our mix to high-performing products.
But really the headline for the fourth quarter on Ceilings is that pricing was up in all product categories.
Now let's move to distribution.
L&amp;W Supply comp store sales and wallboard volume were both up 3%.
We were successful at driving out working capital in the quarter and our wallboard spread increased about 8% year-on-year.
Increasing the performance of L&amp;W as you know continues to be a key priority.
We took some great steps in the fourth quarter and as you can see by the results we made wonderful progress with L&amp;W's bottom line during 2015.
We have work to do but we're starting to see some good progress.
At USG Boral the operating margins expanded despite the strong headwinds that we're all seeing from foreign exchange.
And Matt's going to talk a little bit in more detail about FX and what it's done to the business.
With Boral we saw continued move from our standard board to Sheetrock NextGen sales with conversion rates increasing from 13% to almost 20%.
We also saw increased sales at USG Boral of joint treatment and ceilings.
Now we believe we've achieved about half of the $50 million synergy target that we've talked to you over the past year about.
And this pace of realization of the $50 million is really ahead of our internal expectations.
So we're very pleased with the progress at USG Boral and this emphasizes our – part of our plan to diversify our earnings.
So with that I'm going to turn it over to Matt.
He's going to get into the details and then I will come back and talk a little bit about what we see in 2016 for demand.
Matt? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
Before I get into the details I'd just like to start by simply saying how pleased I am with 2015 and how we finished really strong in the fourth quarter and I think you saw that in the release that went out this morning.
And I'm equally excited about 2016 which I'll lay out some of the details on that in a few minutes as well.
As I've done in the past I've included a bridge of our GAAP to adjusted results in the detail of our press release and the earnings slides.
But to clarify there are four principal income adjustments for the quarter that are included in our GAAP results but excluded from our adjusted results which collectively amounted to $750 million of income.
So first and most prevalent is the $731 million favorable non-cash income tax adjustment related to the reversal of our longstanding tax valuation allowance which I'll discuss in a little bit more detail in a few minutes.
Second is $6 million of income related to the recovery of the GTL receivable that we wrote off a year ago.
Third is a $7 million net gain related to the sale of surplus property down in Mexico during the quarter which we sold for $15 million in U.S.
and then lastly a net gain of $6 million related to the sale of our Knauf-USG joint venture that we announced in the third quarter with final cash proceeds of $52 million again in U.S.
Since Jim already covered the highlights for full year 2015 I'll focus my remarks really around the fourth quarter in 2016 but I'd characterize our fourth quarter in 2015 as just – as excellent.
We improved operating margins in Gypsum Ceiling and USG Boral volumes in Wallboard were better than expected and we held both share and price.
We saw price improvement in all of our ceiling tile categories.
We substantially lowered our SG&amp;A from a year ago and we ended the year with $670 million of cash which puts us in a really good position to delever the balance sheet.
And I'll spend a little bit more time talking about that.
But all in all I'd say we had a really strong finish to the year and I couldn't be more pleased.
Now I get into the numbers in a little bit more detail.
For the fourth quarter adjusted net sales were essentially flat at $925 million with adjusted net income doubling to $62 million.
And our results were even stronger when you consider the negative impact of foreign currency embedded in our fourth quarter and full year results.
We've included a new page in our slide deck page eight.
So I'd like to steer you to page eight in our slide deck where we've outlined the impact of foreign exchange.
So I'll give you the summary.
For the fourth quarter the strength in the U.S.
dollar unfavorably impacted revenues by $18 million and lowered our net income by $8 million and that's partly why we see a flat revenue line in the fourth quarter.
And for the full year foreign currency was a drag of $65 million on revenue and about $28 million – that was a hit to net income as well.
So clearly you'd need to think about foreign exchange when you're doing 2015 to 2014 comparisons.
Also we made a lot of progress in lowering our break even in 2015.
SG&amp;A for the full year came in at $317 million which was favorable to our guidance where we said it was going to be under $325 million and as Jim said it's below 2014 and 2013 levels.
And what's terrific is that I expect SG&amp;A to come in below 2015 levels in 2016 which I'll cover in a few minutes.
So with that kind of overview let me get into some of the details around the segments.
In the Gypsum segment adjusted net sales for the fourth quarter were $593 million compared to $605 million last year with foreign exchange amounting to a $15 million headwind for the quarter.
Adjusted operating profit increased 180 basis points from 11.2% to 13% and that came through both price and cost improvement.
And again if you factor in foreign exchange we did even better than 180 basis points.
Specifically if you break it down wallboard contributed $1 million of improved profit.
Jim talked about surfaces and substrates which contributed $5 million lower SG&amp;A spending in the fourth quarter with $6 million of improvement.
And then we also improved performance in Canada Mexico which was really offset by $6 million of unfavorable foreign exchange.
Jim touched on volumes already which were down about 3.5% year-over-year for the quarter but a bit better than what we were actually thinking.
Wallboard price was up 2% and flat sequentially.
I know there's been questions in the market about that but good performance around price.
We did see some inflation in certain input costs including synthetic Gypsum paper labor some other things.
But we really more than offset this inflation with continued manufacturing efficiencies through Lean-Six Sigma and we did have a tailwind of natural gas which was about $2 million for the quarter.
Our surfaces and substrate division which represents almost half of the sales of the Gypsum segment had another really strong quarter with 5% revenue growth and $5 million of additional profit and that was really led by roofing products and joint treatment and there were a host of other products that helped this as well.
Surface and substrates now represents about 30% of U.S.
Gypsum's EBITDA and it's grown to over $800 million in annual sales.
I mean I think that's pretty remarkable.
And just to put that revenue in perspective that's approaching twice the size of our U.S.
Ceiling business.
And what's really great as a CFO is I get to – I can expect to see the margin continue to expand and I expect to see volumes continue to move in a positive direction particularly as we think about architectural and contractor preferences.
They continue to love our products and we continue to put new products out in the marketplace which helps us as well.
So I'd have to say as the CFO again I'm really pleased with how this business is doing.
Now on to Ceilings net sales were $115 million in the fourth quarter which were down slightly from $121 million last year with foreign exchange accounting for $2 million of that lower revenue.
We saw adjusted operating margins expand 160 basis points from a year ago from 14.9% to 16.5% which was really driven by three elements: pricing mix and costs.
So pricing on ceiling tiles was the primary driver with prices up in every tile category.
Again I know there are questions out there.
But I couldn't be more pleased that we saw pricing improvement in every category.
We saw continued mix shift to higher-end tiles that we've seen for the last few years and costs were lower due to tailwinds from natural gas which offset some of the labor inflation that we saw in ceilings as well.
Just moving to Distribution we made $5 million in adjusted operating profit down from $7 million in the prior year.
L&amp;W's profit from wallboard and adjacent products was really – I mean it was up nicely during the quarter which reflected really improvements in the strengthening of the business.
And look while our operating profit was down it was down primarily due to a slight uptick in delivery costs.
I want to turn to USG Boral our JV and I want to reference pages 14 and 15 in the slide deck you may – look – 14 is a new slide so I hope you like it.
And I want to start with the broader size scope and profitability of the JV.
Just to remind everybody the JV operates in 14 different countries around Asia and Australasia.
And if you take out China which is a relatively small part of the business we have an average market share of roughly 40% across the rest of the countries.
And 2015 was a really strong year.
You heard Jim talk about it and we really accomplished what we set out to do.
I mean if you go by the numbers USG's portion of adjusted net income for 2015 was $48 million up from $35 million in 2014.
And if you factor in the negative foreign currency impact USG's portion of adjusted net income on a constant currency basis let me repeat that on a constant currency basis increased to $56 million.
That's roughly a 33% increase on an annualized basis pretty strong performance.
The JV is also cash-positive.
It paid USG $38 million in cash dividends last year with $20 million coming in the fourth quarter.
USG also finished the year with a strong fourth quarter.
Again if you strip out foreign exchange and view its fourth quarters on a constant currency basis revenues increased 7% to $290 million and total adjusted net income for the JV was around $34 million on a constant currency basis.
Our 50% portion of adjusted net income was $15 million.
That's a $1 million increase over the prior year.
But I'd like to point out if you take a look at the $1 million of improved performance it was really driven by $6 million of real business performance real operating performance.
And that $6 million was offset by $2 million of unfavorable currency and the absence of a $3 million insurance recovery recorded in the fourth quarter of 2014.
So look I know that's a lot of data to throw at you.
But as you can see I mean I think there's – you can see a lot of organic performance through the JV last year and I'm really encouraged about what we see as real growth opportunity in front of us.
In fact Jim and I were recently over in Asia and I'll tell you we both feel very strong and positive about the business prospects over there.
Very good investment for us.
You may recall that when we entered the JV two years ago there were three principal areas of focus.
First was the conversion of markets to NextGen which is essentially UltraLight products second was growing our adjacent products and third was reducing our JV production costs and I would add on to that improving the quality of our products as well.
So if you look back in retrospect I'm very pleased to say that we made tremendous progress on all three.
The conversion to NextGen board has improved from 13% in the fourth quarter to roughly 20% I think Jim referenced that in the fourth quarter of 2015.
And just like UltraLight board across North America NextGen board commands a price premium in the JV markets as well.
Second as I said we continue to grow our adjacent products like plasters and joint compounds.
Ceiling tiles and grids are picking up steam.
And we're still in the early innings of introducing our full adjacent – our product portfolio into the JV regions with plasters and compounds seeing more saturation at this point than products like Fiberock and Durock in Ceilings but we're picking up steam as I said.
With that said adjacent products already represent 25% of the USG Boral business so it's more than just the plasterboard business.
The third thing I had mentioned was lowering costs in the USG Boral business which is a huge strategic priority just like it is in North America for us.
And the implementation of USG's manufacturing technology listen I need to call out the manufacturing team in the JV they've just done a tremendous job.
They put in our technology.
They've lowered per-unit costs in 2015 increased quality.
And we've had a little bit of improvement too in some lower input costs such as natural gas and transportation costs for the quarter as well.
But look the team over there is doing a great job and I expect that with some additional rollouts of technology in – which are scheduled for plants in India Malaysia and South Korea that we can expect some continued cost improvements in 2016 as well.
So I kind of covered 2015.
I'd like to move to 2016 now and let me first set the table.
We expect to get operating margin improvement in each segment through both price increases and cost improvement in 2016.
And Jim has already addressed pricing so I'll start with input costs for wallboard.
We expect our total net input costs to be up about 1% to 2%.
Specifically we expect some mild inflation in labor synthetic gypsum paper and transportation costs in 2016 and that will be partially offset by some of the deflation that we're seeing in natural gas which represents about 15% of our wallboard costs.
So as a reminder for natural gas we're about 80% hedged in 2016 and I'll give you a few numbers here on that.
Our average hedge rate for 2016 will be around $3.60 per dekatherm.
That compares to $4 – not $14 $4.15 in 2015 and then we'll float with the market spot rate on the remaining 20%.
So overall the way I think about this is the overall gas rate should be about – should be down about 10% to 15% in 2016.
On the SG&amp;A front we continue to focus on ensuring that we're getting value for every dollar that we spend and again I couldn't be more pleased to tell all our shareholders that SG&amp;A expense will come in below 2015 levels in 2016.
It's going to be below $317 million and we've really taken a hard look at expenses this year and we continue to take work out.
We're streamlining processes.
We're reducing discretionary spending.
But just to be clear we're still making investments in the business to drive top line and improve operating profit and that's really really important so we're being very surgical in the way that we're thinking about SG&amp;A.
Regarding taxes now I know everybody is at the edge of their seat waiting to hear me talk about taxes.
So let me start around some commentary around our fourth quarter and specifically the reversal of a significant portion of our tax valuation allowance in December.
As I mentioned in the past this tax adjustment is I mean it's really positive if you think about it because it's – we're reversing it because of the strong earnings power and the strong earnings that we've had over the last four years.
So this really puts us back in kind of the normal category.
But we don't pay cash taxes and I'll get into that the second.
The release of the valuation allowance amounted to a single non-cash income statement benefit of $731 million which was posted on the tax line with an offsetting increase to deferred tax assets on the balance sheet and that's about as far as I'm going to go explaining tax accounting here in my prepared remarks.
You can save those questions for after I get done.
But with the release of our valuation allowance in the fourth quarter we will now begin to record book tax expense in the first quarter of 2016 at a consolidated rate of between 30% and 33% and that includes the JV the Boral JV income.
As I mentioned just a few seconds ago I think it's very important that everyone understands that we will not I repeat not be a cash taxpayer for income taxes in the U.S.
until we fully utilize our $1.9 billion of net operating losses and some of the other carry-forward benefits that we have.
So while we'll record book tax income expense in 2016 we won't cut a check – cash check in the U.S.
for a while.
Similar – with respect to cash taxes in 2016 similar to 2015 our cash tax payment should be around and hover around $2 million per quarter primarily related to foreign taxes.
On a related note given that our book tax expense will distort the comparison of our 2016 net earnings relative to 2015 I'm including a new metric an additional metric in our disclosures namely and I quote adjusted EBITDA per fully diluted share.
And I think this'll help provide an apples-to-apples comparison of our performance from 2016 to 2015.
And to help you I've put that calculation in the appendix of the current earnings slide presentation that you have in front of you.
Just a few more comments and then I'll turn it back to Jim.
But I just – I want to talk a little bit about foreign exchange.
It's hard to not be impacted by foreign exchange in 2016 and I believe our 2016 results unfortunately would be unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange by almost $25 million.
And that's assuming that rates stay flat in 2016 as compared to the rates at the end of December.
The $25 million is roughly split between – half goes to Gypsum and the remaining portion is equally attributable to Ceilings and USG Boral.
And at this point I expect the majority of the foreign exchange will be felt in the first half of the year.
But again with foreign exchange obviously it's very difficult to predict but that's our best view right now.
A few comments around our balance sheet and capital spending.
Turning to our capital budget for 2016 I expect total capital spend to be around $100 million.
And of this roughly half will be for maintenance of business and the other half will fund various investments across the businesses.
Moving to debt and pension liabilities for 2016 we expect our total interest expense to be about $155 million which compares to $163 million in 2015.
And that's before we consider any kind of potential refinancing or early debt retirement.
Additionally I expect to make cash contributions to our pension plans of around $65 million in 2016 which is about the same amount that we contributed in 2015.
I'd like to really – I think this is an important point.
I'd like to point out that our total cash position improved in 2015.
We moved from $380 million of cash to $670 million.
And I expect more improvement on the cash line in 2016.
In addition to all of the operating improvements that Jim's talked about and I've laid out here we also have several working capital initiatives in place that we think are going to drive stronger free cash flows and I think you saw some of that in our 2015 results with free cash flow improving from around $40 million to just under $240 million in 2015.
As of December 31 2015 our total all-in debt which includes unfunded pension OPEB liabilities lease obligations amounted to $2.3 billion down $300 million from the end of 2014.
And based on our 2015 EBITDA of – adjusted EBITDA of $609 million our debt-to-EBITDA ratio now stands at roughly 3.7 times down significantly from almost five times a year ago.
I got to tell you we're making real progress on this folks.
As you've heard me say on previous calls our goal is for this ratio to settle between 1.5 times to 2 times on a net basis at the mid-cycle.
And most importantly here is that the $500 million bullet loan that is due in November of this year is clearly within our sights.
And that will just be another significant step towards delevering the company.
So let me just finish with saying overall I feel really good about what we accomplished in 2015 and I'm proud of the team that we finished really strong in the fourth quarter and I'm confident that we'll even bring in a better 2016.
So with that I'll turn it back to you Jim.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Matt.
Think that's a nice review and digging into the details of the business.
Before we get into the Q&amp;A and we really want to get your thoughts for the remaining time that we have I'd like to give you some additional color on 2016.
I think Matt framed it up really well from a numbers perspective and I want to just really touch on the market and how we're seeing the market and our customer activity particularly in North America.
2015 I think you would all agree was a very strong year for us but I agree with Matt: I'm very excited about what we expect in 2016.
So let me just give you a little color about how we're set up as we start out the year.
Really in my three decades of being in this business this is probably the best position I've seen the company in a long time.
Matt talked about what we've done about lowering our break even about growing our business and this is something that we're really excelling in of doing both.
I like to say we like to be ambidextrous of really focusing on cost but reinvesting in new products and reinvesting in growth markets.
What we do on our markets -- we see in 2016 growth in every end-use market.
North America is going to be growing this year we expect it and also in Asia and Australasia.
So we are in the right position from a marketplace standpoint.
As you know we exited Europe and we're really focused on key growth markets for construction.
We also plan as Matt said margin improvement in every major product category and we can do this in two ways: our value proposition that we have in the market putting new products better quality being the innovation leader in the industry; but also lowering our breakeven through Lean Six Sigma which I'd like to call out the entire Lean Six Sigma team that has grown organically within USG but has really helped us offset some of this inflation as well as some of the Lean manufacturing initiatives that we've just started.
Along with that in 2016 we're going to continue our innovation pipeline.
We have some very exciting things we're going to be introducing throughout the year and into 2017 including we just introduced a few months ago some very high-end performance ceilings products that we think have a unique performance in the market that none of our competition has.
And next month we're going to be starting up our Plaster City California plant.
The line there that will be making high-end glass mat panels which continues to grow our high-performance portfolio.
We want to continue to move our portfolio both on ceilings but also on wallboard to more of a high-performance portfolio.
And that's exactly what the architects and our contractors as Matt said are requesting and as building science and building standards change as we move forward.
Along with that in 2016 we're going to continue our relentless cost control program.
This continues to help us lower our breakeven helps us on the balance sheet as Matt said focus on that $500 million bullet we have in November but also continuing to offset inflation and continuing to have efficient manufacturing facilities throughout the network.
Along with that as a shareholder you really focus on that $500 million.
We want to continue to strengthen the balance sheet.
Matt said we want to get to that 1.5 times to 2 times.
But I don't want you to forget as we said we have tax-free earnings in the United States as we're going to utilize that NOL.
And so that really puts us in position that we feel really excited and confident about 2016.
We're going to continue to execute our plan.
As we've talked about it it's three legs: it's strengthening our core it's diversifying our earnings and it's differentiating through innovation and we're going to continue to put initiatives under those three categories.
And as I mentioned this will allow us to simultaneously grow our business and lower our breakeven.
So we're going to do both.
So let me touch on our view of market demand in 2016 and just some of our thoughts.
A lot of these numbers are probably aligned with what you see but just wanted to give you a little additional color on the market.
We're projecting overall demand will improve about 5% in most of our key markets.
But let me break it down for you; residential commercial and repair and remodel.
As you know in residential 2015 we ended with housing about 1.1 million housing starts and that kind of lined up with the projections that I think we had most of the year.
That was about a 10% increase and we're projecting similar growth in 2016 of about 1.2 million housing starts.
So this will be another year of growth in housing in the United States.
But what is kind of interesting this still only represents about 80% of the historical mid-cycle opportunity.
So we still believe that we have some ways to go to get to mid-cycle but the good news is we're seeing some nice growth.
There's positive trends with the drivers that we see; household formation consumer confidence existing home sales are just a few of those trends that we look at to support the view that we believe housing is going to continue to grow in 2016.
Moving to new commercial we expect construction starts within the areas that use our products which as you know office education retail healthcare those are kind of the big areas for us.
We feel that we're going to see about 2% to 3% growth in 2016.
And as you know when these projects break ground the contractors don't put our products in for about nine to 18 months.
So we have about a nine- to 18-month lag from anything you're seeing from a McGraw-Hill and some of the economists that are looking at constructions.
Some of the construction starts that we're seeing from outside firms their numbers are little more robust than ours but we're taking a more conservative view on commercial.
But we still are starting to see some positive growth in that business specifically for demand for ceiling products which as you know they are highly levered to the commercial space where we expect to see the opportunity for ceilings to increase around 2% to 3% as well in 2016.
Turning to repair and remodel which is a key market for us we're encouraged by comp store sales that some of our large customers that serve that market are seeing and we're expecting about a 3% growth in repair and remodel opportunity for us as well.
And I'd just like to finally touch on and Matt gave a great overview of USG Boral and hopefully the additional information we're giving you will give you a real perspective of the unbelievable opportunity we have with Boral of a growth engine for us and how it diversifies our earnings.
And we're expecting to see demand in those 14 regions and this is kind of a blended demand over the regions to be up about 5%.
But in addition to that we're seeing the GDP levels are higher than they are in the United States.
We're encouraged by the adoption rate of western construction practices.
And as Matt said this is not just a wallboard or as they refer to in that part of the world plasterboard business.
We're really integrating our ceiling products our joint treatment products and we're very pleased with the early success we've had there.
We expect wallboard shipments in Asia and Australasia to be up around 5% to 6% and net income for USG Boral this year to increase at least 10%.
So hopefully that gives you kind of an overview of how we're seeing the market also how we plan to execute in 2016.
So with that I'd like to open it up – call for your questions and then we'll wrap up here in a few minutes.
Thank you.
And we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
And from RBC Capital Markets we have Bob Wetenhall.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Bob.
Congrats on a very strong finish to the year with some encouraging trends.
And my hat's off to you.
I think you've done a really great job of really managing the things you can control like margin growth and cost control and the balance sheet is in great shape.
I was thinking about Jim's comments about the outlook for commercial construction and he kind of cited the 5% number as being what you're anticipating for volume growth or perhaps that's dollar spend.
Then you were touching on ceilings and wallboard and your expectations for R&amp;R was more like 2% to 3%.
We also saw U.S.
construction put in place was pretty robust when the number came out earlier this week.
So I was hoping Jim you've been in the business for a long time.
Where are we in this cycle? And can you step us through how to think about the discrepancy between your modest volume growth low-single digit versus some of the other end markets like housing growing at 10% and 5% overall number you cited? Thanks very much and good luck.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Bob.
I appreciate your comments.
On the commercial opportunity as you know we do have our lag.
So we're working from demand off of nine to 12 months of the numbers last year which weren't up as much.
We've also looked at some of the trends of the outside agencies and firms that have done projections and they've been overoptimistic in our point of view.
We would rather take a more conservative route.
We feel that if we miss it on the low end it really doesn't have a major impact to our business.
We're still very early in the cycle.
You asked about where we are in the cycle on commercial.
We're very early on recovery.
It's the last market that's recovering.
And most of the high rises for example in Chicago there's about 30 high-rise cranes to 35 high-rise cranes here and most of those are residential.
Those are not commercial projects.
We talked about that last quarter.
So they don't use ceilings as much.
Mostly it's all plasterboard.
The units are smaller.
So that falls in the residential.
So when you look at the housing being up 10% that high-rise commercial falls into that number of multifamily.
So I think that's why some of the numbers are off.
If you look at – just to kind of put it in perspective though why we're feeling better about commercial or high-rise construction.
Of the 34 high-rises that are in Chicago in 2014 there were only 14 or 15 high-rises.
So you can see that there is growth there but it's coming from a very very low base.
And a lot of the numbers get skewed because of the multifamily high-rise falls into the housing numbers versus in the commercial opportunity numbers.
Just to clarify Jim are you saying because of the lag then there's potentially a sizable bit of demand that could manifest itself in 2016 i.e.
construction was started in 2015 and you're going to see potentially volume growth in 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
2016 early 2017 yes.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Great quarter and good luck.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right Bob.
Thank you.
From Barclays we have Stephen Kim online.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Thanks very much guys.
A lot of questions we could ask.
But let me just take the question of your CapEx.
I think you had mentioned Matt about $100 million in CapEx half maintenance.
Looking further out should we be expecting that CapEx rate to increase meaningfully? Can you just sort of describe in general what your philosophy has been towards investment in your plants? Our sense is that maybe that you've been able to invest a little less than what you would normally expect to do as kind of normal run rate.
Whether that's true and sort of what do you think may need to be done as you look little further out past 2016? Yes.
Stephen it's Matt.
Hey I'm disappointed you didn't ask about taxes.
Inc.</span></strong> That was the next (44:27).
With that being said I'll answer your CapEx question.
So I think the last couple of years we've spent around $100 million.
We typically will spend somewhere between I would say $100 million and $150 million.
It's generally split 50% 50% between maintenance of business and growth.
So I would put the maintenance of business typically in a run rate of $50 million to $75 million and then you can put growth on top of that.
Look we're being very thoughtful about where we're putting our CapEx.
And I think we've got some things in front of us that are exciting.
And I don't want to get too far over my skis and I've got Jim looking at me here so I'll be careful.
But there's a lot of things that we can do in the plants to improve productivity.
If you look at advanced manufacturing out in the manufacturing world there are some very cool things that can be done and so that drive real benefits to the bottom line much like we've done in Lean Six Sigma.
So I think it's too early to get into what investments might look like for advanced manufacturing.
But clearly I think as cash flow builds we will look at perhaps accelerating some things around advanced manufacturing.
And I would tell you on the advanced manufacturing the payback on that stuff is really very good.
I mean they're tremendous investments.
So I would kind of put it in that organic growth bucket.
So I think for 2016 $100 million is fine.
We start to make some investments in advanced manufacturing now and we'll be in a better position sometime later this year to get into what 2017 might look like and some other investments.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks very much guys.
Yes.
You're welcome.
From Macquarie Group we have Mike Wood online.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Excellent job in the quarter.
A question just on the wallboard shipments.
That down 3.5% doesn't seem like that much of a destock.
Curious to get your thoughts on where inventories were coming into the quarter if you feel now that third quarter might have included some destocking in advance and where you see inventories at distribution and maybe even L&amp;W at this point? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes Mike the inventories are very low at this point.
There's parts of the country right now -- as I said we started out January extremely busy.
We knew January would come back from a order count.
And as I said we were thinking 5% 6% and then January was stronger than that.
Texas is very busy.
There has been obviously a lot of discussion about oil and fracking and what impact that's going to have.
And Texas is busy.
Houston has slowed up a little bit but from very high levels.
California is extremely busy particularly on the residential side.
I think it just came out that of the 20 top residential markets in the United States more than half of them are in California.
So California showed -- in the fourth quarter it was the only region in the country that had positive shipments.
So I believe the industry shipments in California in the fourth quarter were up 4% or 5% even with what we talked about the absence of any surge buying.
So to answer your question inventories throughout the network are fairly low.
People are busy and we think demand this quarter absent any big-time weather that we will have the rest of the quarter we think it's going to be a nice quarter.
In Texas I will say distribution inventories are extremely low and lead times have started to expand.
So we're starting to see some nice bright spots for the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
From JPMorgan we have Michael Rehaut on line.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning and congrats on the quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Michael.
The first – the question I had was kind of centered around I guess both the gypsum and the ceilings segments.
From the gypsum side the pricing has been consistent and I think you said flat sequentially up 2% year-over-year.
You haven't announced a price increase yet but you plan to do so in 2016.
But I recall Jim last year at our conference actually you talking to the idea that from here on in gypsum price increases would be more just to combat inflation which would suggest kind of the same type of a rate low perhaps mid-single digits type increases versus in prior years where you would kind of put out 10% 15% 20% price increases.
And certainly the end market growth continues to be moderate given where we are in the cycle.
So I just wanted to get your sense on the gypsum side in terms of pricing and I know you don't comment on specific pricing but just from a broader bigger picture perspective if that's still the case in terms of more Gypsum pricing more just kind of covering inflation And on the Ceilings side the margins and you got some good pricing there as well the overall consolidated margins in Ceilings has been in that 17% to 18% or a little above 18% range.
Can it break out of that any time soon and is that part of your expectations over the next couple years? Thanks.
Thank you Michael.
And I would assume that's one question one two-part question.
So we have quite a few people in line.
But I'm going to get to both of those questions Michael.
On wallboard price we have a value proposition that is unmatched in the market.
What we've done with putting new products in the market our customers are really excited about what they've been seeing over the last two years.
UltraLight we've talked a lot about.
Our Glass-Mat we're going to continue to grow that portfolio.
And we feel that price improvement is part of that and it isn't offsetting inflation.
I want to be perfectly clear.
Price improvement -- we want to continue to expand our margins.
And we're looking at margin expansion in every part of the business and the wallboard business is no different.
So these are conversations we're having directly with our customers but our customers will pay for our value and we're going to get as much as we can and what our customers will pay.
So we want to exceed inflation.
So it's not offsetting inflation.
We want to continue to have margin expansion.
And we are not at historic highs in our wallboard business.
So we want to continue to march down the path of increasing our margins in wallboard.
What is a really important component of that is we look at demand and we're seeing some positive signs of demand and capacity utilization.
So we watch those as well.
Turning to Ceilings as you know we had a great fourth quarter.
We got price improvement but we are moving that mix.
So to answer your question yes we want to continue margin expansion in Ceilings at 17% 18%.
It's a nice business but we feel the market is changing to high-end high-margin business more of the commodity tile business that you see typically you see in people's basements and the market is moving away from that high NRC high CAC.
And we have [audio skip] (52:50) capacity – one of the previous questions was about our CapEx plan.
A couple years ago we added capacity at our Cloquet plant to position us for this high-end high-margin portfolio.
So I would expect the rising tides lifts all boats.
So going to that high-margin products should and we expect will improve the margins of the Ceilings business.
Great.
Thanks so much.
You're welcome.
From Longbow we have Garik Shmois online.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
Congratulations.
Just wanted to pick a little bit on distribution.
The wallboard margin and volume spread was positive $1 million in the quarter.
I think that was down from a run rate earlier in the year of closer to $5 million to $6 million.
So I'm just wondering if you could provide a little bit more context on what's driving the deceleration in spread.
Is it tougher passing through wallboard pricing how much was some other factors impacting the spread and what can we expect from that as we look out to 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
If you look at L&amp;W for the year we were pleased with the bottom-line movement.
I mean we almost doubled our bottom line.
Now obviously the numbers can move because you're dealing with some small numbers.
If you look at wallboard spread for the quarter it was up about I think 8%.
Comp-store sales were up.
I think what you look at for the quarter we had some additional delivery expenses that Matt talked about.
We're repositioning our fleet.
We've talked about in previous calls we're downsizing some areas.
We're taking some fleets out of the system.
We're repositioning some fleet.
So that really hit us in the quarter when you look at that delivery cost.
So that's kind of a quarter anomaly.
We're really – we're pleased with the progress at L&amp;W.
We think we're going to continue to march down the path in 2016 with better results on the bottom line.
And really it's focused on not only wallboard spread that's important but one really key component of L&amp;W is non-wallboard.
50% of L&amp;W's business is steel studs.
We talked about ceiling tile.
They are the largest ceiling tile distributor in the United States.
We talked about positive trends there and really it gets down to velocity because L&amp;W is really tied to the commercial market so we're starting to see as I said with some earlier questions some positive trends commercially which will continue to help L&amp;W from a velocity standpoint.
So this is a velocity business.
It's come from really the ashes and I'm really proud of the team.
We have some very specific initiatives on our fleet as I mentioned on how we do truck turnaround and really two or three hard operational initiatives that are starting to take root.
So I wouldn't get hung up on some of the sequential quarter-to-quarter.
If you step back and look at the progress that we've made and hey I'll admit we have some work to do and we aren't where we want to be from a margin basis.
But I think we're getting some tailwind we haven't had in the last couple years.
From Thompson Research Group we have Kathryn Thompson online.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you for taking my questions today.
On wallboard and your outlook if you could just remind us where your current plant structure is in terms of effective capacity utilization.
What would it take to get to that optimal utilization off of current levels given your housing and non-res outlook that you currently have for the 2016 market? And then just a quick follow-up on those end markets it seems a little bit more conservative.
Is this driven by what your customers are telling you or just being generally prudent? Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes Kathryn.
On our outlook we've taken a conservative approach really the last four years and because let's be frank there's been a lot of outlooks that have been too rosy.
So maybe we've been a little gun shy about overshooting our targets here on where we think the market is going to be and think it's going to be a hockey stick in the third quarter or fourth quarter.
But really a lot of that we talk to our customers as well.
You see a lot of the analyst reports on where commercial is going to be and then we take that information and we talk – we have relationships with larger architectural firms.
We see what their backlog is and large commercial contractors.
In every major city we know what – as I mentioned the factoid in Chicago on the high rises.
So it's really – there's some science but there's a lot of art and the customers can tell us if their backlog is up or down and it is a little uneven.
As I mentioned some areas that are very busy but there is also some areas that are still not showing us positive numbers.
Your question on capacity utilization if you look at our effective capacity utilization right now it's around 80%.
If you look at – nameplate capacity overall is probably approaching 65% 67% as an industry.
So we really look at effective capacity what we have staffed and Matt had talked a little bit about advanced manufacturing that's why that's so important for us because staffing up is becoming more and more difficult even in this environment of getting quality production workers and we want to make sure that the demand is durable before we start adding shifts.
But our effective capacity right now is at a really good spot.
And we think as I said earlier looking at the business for a few years like I have we are running the plants very well.
And we're running at some efficiencies that I think are in a nice sweet spot.
And we have time for one other question.
Thank you.
From Jefferies we have Phil Ng online.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
It looks like you're seeing some restocking in the first quarter in wallboard and a competitor mentioned they're seeing some pre-buying in 1Q.
Can you provide some color on what you're seeing in the marketplace? And how does that stack up versus years past? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
I said inventories are pretty low.
We haven't really seen that much pre-buy.
Really what we're seeing in our customers we have some very large customers that do not participate in pre-buy.
But also we're seeing just durable demand.
So in which we find that encouraging.
So as I said earlier there's some parts of the country where inventories are very low and the capacity utilization is very high.
So for example in Texas we have customers that probably we would have a tough time having any type of surge because we're busy.
Did we want to take one more question? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
No more questions.
Thank you.
Okay.
I'll close.
At this point I'll turn over back to you for closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you.
And I'll be very brief because we're just really past everyone's time.
I appreciate you spending the hour plus with us kind of going over 2015 and outlook in 2016.
And just to reiterate we had a great finish in 2015 we're very happy with it.
But more importantly we're off to a very strong start in 2016.
And we'll look forward to updating you next quarter.
Thank you for your time.
Thanks Jim.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Friday February 19.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen you may now disconnect.