Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies First Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Akhil Johri Vice President Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download at UTC's Home page at www.utc.com.
The company reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTC's SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Thank you Dana and good morning everyone.
As you saw on the press release this morning a great start to the year with solid organic sales growth of 9%.
Combined by the benefit of strong operating leverage on the higher sales UTC delivered earnings per share growth of 19%.
Cash generation was also strong.
And finally as expected order trends continue to improve across UTC including now much of our Late Cycle businesses.
As we look across the globe we see end markets are improving much as we had expected back in December.
In the U.S.
the recent employment and consumer spending data are encouraging signs of further recovery while Europe generally remains stable in spite of the continuing sovereign debt concerns.
Of course emerging markets continue to leave worldwide economic growth and UTC's businesses are capitalizing on this opportunity.
There are always of course concerns.
The biggest threats we see on the horizon are first and foremost commodity inflation especially higher oil prices.
Secondly the emerging supply chain disruptions caused by the tragedy in Japan are a potential growing issue.
While we're confident in Japan's resilience and ability to recover there likely will be some short-term supply chain disruptions in our businesses.
The biggest area we continue to monitor closely is electronics microprocessors capacitors and other such components.
We feel many of our product across our business units and deeply into the supply chain and second and third tier suppliers.
We continue to work with our suppliers in securing available inventory and alternative sources and we expect that the impact of disruptions if any will only be felt in the back half of the year.
But let me stress all of this is manageable with the scope of our current guidance.
All right notwithstanding these potential overhangs with the stronger-than-expected performance in Carrier's short cycle businesses and improving order rates in both our Long and Short-cycle businesses gives us confidence to increase our full year outlook.
We now expect 2011 earnings per share to be in the range of $5.25 to $5.40.
That's up $0.05 in both the top and bottom ends of the prior range or 11% to 14% EPS growth.
We also expect sales of $57 billion at the high-end of our previous range of $56 billion to $57 billion so that's sales growth of 5% year-over-year.
Before we start with the first quarter results just a reminder that we'll talk to the segment results adjusted for restructuring and one time items as we usually do.
Okay on Slide 2.
In the quarter sales were up 11% from prior year with organic growth of 9%.
Importantly five of the six businesses saw organic sales growth.
Carrier and Sikorsky led the way with 18% and 15% respectively.
While the strong growth is partially due to a tough first quarter last year it's also evidence of a broader recovery in our end markets.
We are seeing a strong rebound in our Short Cycle businesses such as Carrier's Transicold and U.S.
Residential HVAC as well as our Commercial Aero aftermarket.
Carrier's U.S.
residential gas furnace and split shipments were up mid teens in the quarter despite continuing weakness in the U.S.
Housing segment.
Our Longer Cycle businesses are also gaining traction as expected with growth in Commercial Aero OEM Global Commercial HVAC at Carrier as well as Fire &amp; Security.
Importantly Otis' new equipment sales which are still lagging but solid order trends give us confidence in the sales recovery in the back half of the year.
Total segment operating profit increased 15% at even with higher E&amp;D of $88 million as the businesses continue to execute other growth strategies most significantly at Pratt &amp; Whitney as it advances multiple development programs at the Geared Turbofan technology.
Segment operating margin expanded 80 basis points in the quarter.
Carrier led the way once again with margin expansion of 530 basis points to a record of 11.7% reflecting exceptional conversion on its 18% organic sales growth.
Earnings per share in the first quarter were $1.11 that's up 19%.
Restructuring costs in the quarter were $31 million or $0.02 compared to $67 million or $0.05 in last year's first quarter.
Excluding restructuring costs in both quarters earnings per share increased 15%.
Foreign currency was a $0.01 benefit to EPS.
In the quarter free cash flow was 117% of net income.
Even as inventory grew significantly in the quarter in support of the robust organic sales growth.
Share repurchase in the quarter was $750 million a strong start to this year's program.
And we also increased the dividend 13% last week another sign of confidence in our outlook as well as our commitment to delivering consistent shareowner returns.
Okay on to Slide 3.
First quarter order rates.
First quarter order rates remain strong and this is what gives us confidence in our 2011 sales outlook.
In Aerospace first quarter commercial spares orders at Pratt &amp; Whitney and Hamilton Sundstrand were up 33% and 23% respectively.
At constant currency Otis new equipment orders grew 14% in the quarter and Carrier's Global Commercial HVAC new equipment orders were up 24% further evidence that end markets are indeed recovering.
Emerging markets remained solid and first quarter BRIC country orders for our Commercial companies grew just under 20%.
So excellent quarter of solid sales earnings growth and strong cash flow and an improved end market environment.
I'll come back and talk a little bit about the full year.
But for now let me turn it over to Akhil to take you through the business unit details.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Slide 4 Otis delivered a solid quarter with profits up 4% on sales growth up 2%.
Operating margins expanded 50 basis points to 22.8%.
At constant currency profits increased 3% on slide sales from continued growth in service.
New equipment sales were down 6% at constant currency driven by declines in North America and Europe.
China new equipment and aftermarket sales continue to grow.
Service sales were also up globally with continuing growth in contractual maintenance and improving repair volume.
New equipment orders continue to improve up 14% at constant currency with double-digit growth in North America Europe and China even as pricing remains under pressure in most markets.
For the year Otis expects to see strong new equipment growth in emerging markets led by China  along with improvement in the U.S.
and Northern Europe.
Markets in Southern Europe are expected to remain flat.
Guidance for the full year remains unchanged with profit expected to grow approximately $150 million.
Turning to Carrier on Slide 5.
Falling a very strong order rates experienced late in Q4 and into Q1.
Carrier posted an exceptionally strong first quarter.
Profits were up $167 million on 12% higher sales resulting in a record Q1 margin of 11.7% up 530 basis points from prior year.
As Greg said organic sales growth was 18%.
Refrigerated container shipments in Q1 were at a record level contributing to 60-plus percent organic growth at Transicold.
We also saw North America residential distributors restocking in Q1 resulting in shipments of residential systems up in the mid-teens.
Earnings growth was driven by a strong conversion on sales growth the absence of a $20 million charge from last year first quarter related to portfolio transformation items and another $20 million earnings improvement in the Japanese joint venture from activity prior to the earthquake and the tsunami.
The ramp-up in Carrier's Short Cycle businesses in Q1 was truly extraordinary and we expect a return to more normal growth in the balance of the year particularly the second half.
Given Carrier's first quarter performance we are increasing Carrier's profit growth guidance for the year to $250 million-plus from $175 million previously.
We now expect Carrier's organic sales growth to be up nearly double digit for the year.
UTC Fire &amp; Security delivered operating margin expansion of 100 basis points in the quarter on 15% higher sales.
Organic sales were up about 3% with product businesses up mid-single digits; Asia up double digit; and the other Regional Service and Install businesses flattish.
Acquisitions from two months of GE Security contributed approximately 10 percentage points of sales growth.
First quarter orders also grew organically at 3%.
Importantly orders in the Service and Installed businesses were up mid-single digits in all regions except the U.K.
Backlog is up organically 12% year-over-year and 7% from the beginning of the year.
Operating profit in the quarter grew 27% 24% at constant currency.
The profit growth was largely driven by higher volume and the GE Security acquisition again from the sale of the U.K.
Guarding business also contributed about 1/3 of the profit increase.
For the full year we continue to expect sales to be up high single digits and operating profit up approximately $175 million.
Turning to Aerospace businesses on Slide 7 at Pratt &amp; Whitney sales were up 9% driven primarily by higher overall aftermarket sales.
Higher engine sales at Pratt Canada was more than offset by lowered military engine shipments and development revenues.
Large commercial engine spare sales were more than 30% higher than the first quarter of 2010 and in line with the expected sales for 2011.
Operating profit was up 3% in the quarter.
The benefits from net higher sales and restructuring savings were partially offset by a $75 million increase in Pratt's E&amp;D.
Also in the quarter again from the sale of a minority equity position in a venture offset higher pension costs.
Operating margin for the quarter was 15.3% down 100 basis points year-over-year.
Excluding E&amp;D operating margin was up about 100 basis points.
For the full year we continue to expect Pratt &amp; Whitney operating profit to be down $50 million on flattish sales.
In the quarter Hamilton Sundstrand operating profit grew 11% on 9% higher sales.
Industrial and Aerospace aftermarket sales were up low teens while Aero OEM sales were up mid-single digit.
Commercial spares sales and orders were both up over 20% versus last year.
Book-to-bill was slightly above one and the industrial orders increased mid-single digit.
Profit growth in the quarter reflects the benefit of increased sales partially offset by higher E&amp;D.
Operating margin for the quarter was 17.1% up 30 basis points.
For the full year we continue to expect Hamilton Sundstrand's operating profit to be up about $100 million and the sales up mid-single digit.
Turning to Sikorsky on Slide 9.
Operating profits dropped by 2% on 16% higher sales.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 58 large aircraft five more than the first quarter of last year.
51 aircraft were based on Military platforms and seven Commercial.
Higher sales in the quarter were driven by increased international development aircraft including the first Canadian Maritime Helicopter and higher aftermarket volumes partially offset by fewer S-92 deliveries.
Operating profit was down slightly as the benefit from higher U.S.
Government shipments was more than offset by losses from international development aircraft and the impact from fewer S-92 deliveries.
For the year we continue to expect profit growth of approximately $100 million on sales growth in mid-single digits.
With that let me turn it over to Greg for wrap-up.
Okay thank you Akhil.
We're on Slide 10 now.
For those of you following now.
So a strong quarter solid topline margin expansion earnings growth and the cash flow.
As Louis would say truly UTC style execution.
In addition to the solid financial performance we had some other notable accomplishments in the quarter.
Sikorsky was awarded the prestigious Collier Trophy for its achievement on the X2 Technology Demonstrator program.
Pratt &amp; Whitney's GTF continues to be a game-changer and has already won firm orders for over 450 engines on the A320 NEO program.
That comes from industry leaders Lufthansa and ILFC as well as a largest order to date for 150 firm and 30 options from IndiGo Airlines.
On the Commercial side Carrier continues to drive its portfolio transformation agenda towards completion.
We recently announced the joint venture with Watsco for the residential HVAC distribution to the Northeastern U.S.
Importantly this completes the transformation of Carrier's U.S.
distribution footprint.
All right let's talk about the full year.
As I said before we're very confident in our improved outlook of $5.25 to $5.40 on sales of $57 billion.
But of course we always remain cautious because of some uncertainties that are out there.
As I previously mentioned the impact of Japan is uncertain.
We're closely monitoring working with the supply chain and don't expect this to be a significant headwind.
Also as you know high oil prices significantly impact our airline customers.
While the airlines have maintain pricing and capacity discipline sustained high oil prices will likely dampen profitability as a result could lead to reduce capacity and a lower aftermarket demand in the back half of the year.
Some airlines have already announced slower capacity growth for the later part of this year.
That said as this quarter's results show Commercial Aero aftermarket demand remains robust.
But the short cycled business and compares will get tougher in the back half of the year.
On the other hand foreign currency could be a potential upside to our outlook if exchange rates remain at current levels.
Our current guidance of $5.25 to $5.40 still assumes that the euro will be about 1.35 for the year.
If the euro average holds at 1.40 for the remainder of this year that represent upside of $50 million in pretax profits which is not yet reflected in our guidance.
This is prudent we think as uncertainties of the sovereign debt crisis play out every day.
As far as the other elements of our 2011 guidance we still expect restructuring to be $150 million to $200 million for the year and equal to one time gains both in the first half and for the full year.
For E&amp;D we continue to expect full year to be up $200 million to $225 million.
But this could come under some pressure as we execute on numerous programs and especially in light of Airbus' recent decision to accelerate the A320 NEO program by six months.
The effective tax rate for the quarter is still anticipated to be around 30 1/2% with the second quarter rate of around 29% and that's down from the 32 1/2% we saw in the first quarter.
As always we expect free cash flow to equal or exceed net income.
We still forecast share repurchase of $2.5 billion and acquisition spend of $1.5 billion for the year.
So the world has improved but the recent shocks from Japan and the Middle East will test the resilience of this recovery.
As always we remain cautious but confident in our ability to deliver on our commitments.
We're focused on the top line and we continue to execute our strategies to capitalize on recovery markets as well as our strong presence in emerging and growth markets.
I think it's important we also have a very strong product pipeline across the businesses with programs like the 787 the Geared Turbofan and the Joint Strike Fighter which will drive solid long-term growth.
We're well positioned to benefit from top line growth.
At the high-end of our guidance range 2011 earnings per share will be up 10% from our 2008 peak of $4.90.
And that comes at 4% lower sales from 2008 in addition $200 million of higher E&amp;D this year than 2008.
I think all of that is strong evidence of the tough actions taken over the last three years to reduce our structural costs R&amp;D paying off.
In closing the seasoned management team is committed to driving long-term growth both on the top and bottom line.
We're confident in the guidance and generating sustained double-digit earnings growth well into the future.
With that let's open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Deane Dray with Citi.
Greg I was hoping you could comment on the price cost dynamics in the quarter.
I saw some earlier comments this morning that you made that gross commodity costs looking at $250 million.
Where are you on pricing? And I have some follow-ups on that too please.
We saw about $50 million of commodity headwind in the quarter.
As you know I think at Carrier we raised prices early in February.
So far those prices seemed to be sticking.
But I think for the full year we still expect the commodity -- gross commodity headwind to be about $250 million with about $100 million of pricing to offset that so still a headwind out there in the guidance for really the back half of the year call it another $100 million on top of the $50 million we saw in the first quarter.
On top of that there's probably another $75 million of energy headwind from the higher oil prices.
Again that's all back half of the year here.
How about just specifically at Carrier and the price increases that you think you can put through? Just remind us on a percent basis how much you put through maybe some sense of the elasticity and how much more room on the upside on pricing might you have? When we put through price increases I think we announced them back in the fourth quarter.
They were effective early February of about 2% to 6% on the residential side and those prices seemed to be sticking.
And again I think with commodities holding about where they are copper at $4.20 to $4.30 we would expect that most of our competition probably has the same price pressure that we do.
I'd also say that we've got pricing pressure on the Transport Refrigeration business I think especially at Transicold pricing remains difficult.
But with the market recovery and the fixed cost coming out I think you see good margin and good conversion through that.
Great and just one specific question on the Aero aftermarket.
We heard that some carriers could be restocking as some insurance against their own supply chain disruptions.
Have you seen any signs of that? Might there been a benefit this quarter from that? Yes we have not seen any evidence of restocking.
If you look at the order rate growth at Pratt this year 33% that's off of a pretty easy compare from last year's first quarter.
And it's really in line if you think about the overall sales level about in line with what we expect for the full year.
So I wouldn't expect 33% increases during the course of the year but there might be some upside here if there is some restocking but so far we really haven't seen it either at Pratt or Hamilton.
And we'll go next to Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
When you look at the guidance the company issued today for the organic growth for the rest of the year given the order activity in the first quarter and/or the 9% organic growth in the quarter didn't it seem like that's pretty darn conservative for the second half of the year? Well I think again you're not going to see it probably the same level of growth during the back half as you can see in the front half of the year just because the compares get tougher.
You recall we started to see an acceleration of organic growth throughout the year last year.
And so if you think about we're going to be up 5% in total this year that's the guidance.
It would indicate a slowing growth rate at the back half of the year.
And I wouldn't expect to see 18% growth on a Carrier organically in the next couple of quarters.
It will probably be more in the kind of mid-single-digit range as we look forward but we could be surprised on the upside.
I think the important thing as Louis has been promising since this recovery started if we do see good news on the top line you're going to see it on the bottom line.
That's really the message here with the $5.40 at the top end.
Okay and then maybe a capital deployment question.
In the quarter you bought back I guess about $750 million for the shares.
When we think about that for the rest of the year what's your view on share buyback? And I know you probably can't say a heck a lot about it but there's -- all the speculation floating around Tyco so maybe if I could throw out just a broad M&amp;A question what you're thinking there? Yes I think again the placeholder still out there of $2.5 billion for share buyback and $1.5 billion for M&amp;A for the year.
In the quarter we only did about $100 million of M&amp;A just some very small deals.
And the M&amp;A remains elusive in terms of some of these bigger deals that we have been chasing.
So we still feel good about the $2.5 billion you can see obviously the run rate and the first quarter share buyback would be more like $3 billion.
I expect if we don't spend the money on M&amp;A just like we've done in prior years you'll see more on share buyback.
So we'll see how the year progresses.
And as for specific deals I think you guys all know I really can't comment at anything as specific to anything any of those potential deals.
What's the appetite for a big deal? I mean -- meaning greater than $8 billion or something? Well obviously we're always hoping to deals that make sense for the shareowners but it's having said that it has to be a deal that make sense.
It's going to be something that's strategic.
We don't need to do a big deal I would tell you Ron.
We've been saying that for a couple of years.
We love the deals like GE Security.
We love deals that fit in the core.
A big deal they're tough to do.
You need willing buyers and willing sellers and it really have to be the right price to make sure that we enrich our shareowners as much as we're going to enrich their shareowners.
And we'll go next to Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura.
Couple of questions on Carrier.
One on the Commercial HVAC order strength can you give us a little field geographically in terms of how that played out? Sure Shannon.
I think the strength we saw was across the geographies Europe and America were both up sort of mid-teens and Asia was much stronger than the average so Asia was closer to 40%.
And then in terms of the price increase on the resi side I mean how did the months kind of play out for the year? And did you see any pre-buy and then fallback or that kind of thing how did things play out through the quarter? As we entered the quarter I think we made this comment back in January that the inventory's out in the channel were really historically low levels.
And so we did see some bigger restocking orders January February slowed down a little bit in March but still a pretty solid quarter.
So yes I think as we look at channel inventories today still relatively low at for this time of the year.
So we expect again a pretty good second quarter at Carrier on the resi side.
And are there any further price increases planned? No well at this point I don't believe there's anything out there but it's one of those things that you'll just have to see what happens to commodity prices in the market and trying to stay in front of those things.
And we'll go next to Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
On Japan Greg just a little more color there.
I'm wondering -- you already told us what types of things are -- you anticipate will be in short supply.
I'm just wondering in which segments those might fall into? And then more specifically in Aerospace are there the kind of things that are not replaceable due to your certification concerns? Or do you think that much of what you're going to be missing you'll be able to source somewhere else? Specifically on the Aero side we had a little bit of a scare because obviously we've got some partners on the V2500 that the -- where there factories and sub-tier suppliers suffered some damage but we think we've got work arounds.
We're working actively with those suppliers and I don't see any big requalification efforts on that may push an engine or two out of a month or two but nothing that's dramatic.
The bigger concern as I said in the script is the electronics.
40% of the world's flash memory comes out of Japan and as well as the capacitors transistors and things and we use those on a lot of different products from Carrier's controls to the F&amp;S smoke and CO detectors that we make.
We're working through that.
So far it looks like we've got good visibility to it but it's the second and third tier suppliers that we still worry about.
I mean our first tier suppliers were all over that.
We've got to make sure that those suppliers are all over their suppliers that we don't end up with the surprise but I think the system works pretty well.
We've got 1 500 key suppliers out there 27 000 in total and we're working through that process every day but so far not a big deal.
Okay and then secondly just a follow-up on the organic growth certainly you're not making sense what you're saying -- and the Q1 was easily below last year for your organic growth it was negative and the rest of the year was positive.
And it got -- that's fairly positive towards the end of the year so the comps are going to get tougher.
But if you go back a few years ago your organic growth across the company was pretty consistently for a few years in the higher single digits.
And certainly the order numbers you're showing us are way above single digits again not easy comps.
But I'm just wondering if you put this into context what's the opportunity really to keep this in the higher single digits even if it slows a little bit in the back half of the year? I think when we talked about trying to grow sales here kind of 2x world GDP 6% to 9%.
That is the long-term goal.
I would tell you that probably the best metric to point out to is just look at our top line today.
Look at the markets that we play in.
We are not at peak in any of those markets say perhaps the Container and Transportation business at Carrier but only on the Container side.
So the $59 billion of sales we had a couple of years ago there's still runway to get to that and beyond as these markets recover.
So I'm still cautiously optimistic you're going to see growth some this year and even more into next year as all these markets recover especially on the commercial construction side in the U.S.
and in Europe.
Okay so you are saying that there could be upside to your number then? I mean I'm just trying to gauge here the confidence level that when you guys are talking about organic growth looking at the rest of this year into next year what are the chances you think that we're getting back into that sweet spot we were in four or five years ago? I'm not sure where we're going to be in the sweet spot we are in four and five years ago although debt is still cheap.
And that's what caused the bubble the last time.
So there certainly could be some of that impact this time.
I think the good news is going to come out on commercial construction.
We're seeing that at F&amp;S.
Their order rates are improving.
We're seeing especially at Otis which as you know the orders have been down.
But we'll get to the 2012 guidance maybe in another couple of months here.
But for now I think we're confident in this year and into the future.
We're going to drive solid double-digit growth next year and beyond.
And we'll take our next question from Nigel Coe with Deutsche Bank.
I don't want to beat the organic growth horse to death but the fall off into the 3% range from 3Q to 4Q compared to 1Q at 9% obviously you're putting a big hedge in terms of Japan or airline profitability but what concerns you most of the two possibilities? Is it the high oil price or is it maybe some significant supply chain shortages? I think it's actually the data on the calendar that concerns me most.
It's early.
Carrier's got its biggest selling season ahead of us.
The second and third quarter that's when the U.S.
Residential business will know whether or not we're going to see the kind of growth continue that we saw in the first quarter.
The same I think with the commercial airlines.
I think the biggest concern we have is what happens with oil prices.
Typically when we see a spike in oil prices six to nine months before it dries and change in buying behavior at the airlines.
And so those are the kind of really the two big things or maybe three it's early Carrier's two biggest quarters are coming and you got the high oil prices.
But look we're confident in the numbers.
We're going to get there and there maybe upside.
Obviously you've reached the commitment to delivering the upside of revenues to earnings.
But you said the restructure will be matched by gain.
But what about E&amp;D? It sounds like there could be an upside buys to E&amp;D in the second half of the year.
Now could you use some good news on revenues to maybe accelerate some of those programs? Well clearly there's pressure at Pratt to spend more on these programs.
They've got the CSeries they've got the MRJ they've got the MC-21 and they've got this NEO program which is I mean it's going gangbusters.
Orders are outstanding.
Everybody's excited.
Airbus wants to accelerate the program.
So all of that means they want to spend more and quite frankly we may well accelerate some of that investment into the back half of the year just to try and get ahead of it.
The issue right now is just hiring enough good engineers here in the states to meet the demand.
All right.
And then just finally on that Carrier margins stunning performance.
Anything in there that's maybe not sustainable going forward because when I look at 1Q margins normally two three points weaker than 2Q 3Q implies this year could be in the 12% 13% range.
How do I think about that? I mean and anything in this quarter that should be backing out? Yes there's a couple of things in there.
Let me just say I think we're highly confident in 12 by 12 at Carrier.
But the first quarter did have about $40 million or I'll call it unusual items.
Last year's first quarter I think Akhil said this in the script and we had about $20 million from the portfolio transformation cost that came through their segment that we didn't back out.
We also this year in the first quarter had about $20 million of income from our Japanese joint venture with Toshiba.
And again given what's going on in Japan we wouldn't expect that the good news we saw in the first quarter is going to repeat.
So in of that growth there's probably $40 million that's not going to repeat.
One other point Nigel for consideration is you all know that Transicold is a good business for Carrier and has generally high margins than average and the growth rate there was over 60% organically.
And if you assume that's not going to repeat every quarter which I think is a reasonable assumption then obviously that will have a downward pressure on the margins going forward as well.
Yes I think you've said that [indiscernable].
And we'll go next to Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> First question just to change and talk about Pratt restructuring or in cost takeout and so on.
I mean that's also very impressive considering the higher R&amp;D.
Could you talk a little bit about what you've been doing in order to improve the manufacturing base there and then specifically address how you're using that to drive back costs on the 135? I think there's a couple of things that the investment team for last couple of years have been -- will take a lot of structural cost out of that business.
And for this year we would expect about $75 million of restructuring benefits to flow through.
On top of that we've done I think a great job in terms of business process outsourcing.
We've taken back office cost down there.
And again the benefits of ACE in the factories is really starting to pay off.
We just priced I think it was Lot 4 or LRIP 4 for the JSF.
Those costs are going to come down 16% from LRIP 3.
And again we're driving cost in the factory down.
We're also driving cost down in the supply chain.
Inc.</strong> I mean the reality is your -- probably headcount is probably down and revenues are relatively flat.
And when you look at the mix even if you probably were to adjust for spares Greg again your structural cost seemed to be working in your favor.
That's the point I tried to make earlier the fact that you know it was revenues down still 4% from peak.
Earnings are going to be up 10% with $200 million of higher E&amp;D.
So that's really the -- that's the evidence with all of those structural cost that we took out and we spent $1.5 billion restructuring this place over the last three years.
It really does pay off.
And that you're going to see it on the bottom line this year and next when these orders come back and sales recover.
Inc.</strong> And then just to stay on this issue of restructuring for a moment if we take out the low-margin revenues from the Distribution business at Carrier and the businesses that you've sold or JV-ed can you give us a little bit of color as to what -- if we look at revenue comps year-on-year how much of it -- I mean obviously some of it's Transicold but some of it's also the absence of lower margin business.
Can you sort of provide a little bit of color on that? Howard you're talking about a benefit to the margin from the portfolio transformation? Actually it's not that big of number.
It's probably between 50 to 70 basis points of margin expansion you would attribute to the portfolio transformation.
I think if you go back in the road to 12 by 12 with 0 at laid out about 150 basis points of margin expansion going out of the total 450 or 500 basis points.
And I think we're getting close to that on accumulated basis.
So most of the improvement you saw in Carrier this quarter was support conversion on the volume growth and it's still that everything to Greg's point of the structural cost that they have taken out and the benefit of the mix to some extent.
And we'll take our next question from Terry Darling with Goldman Sachs.
Greg I wanted to come back to the Carrier margin guidance for the balance of the year.
If we back out the first quarter year-over-year from the 250 guidance that $85 million even if I assume that organic growth drops into the mid-single digits it implies kind of a 10% incremental margin.
You've talked about the commodity headwinds net of price actually get less challenging at the overall company level presumably Carrier's got the same profile.
So I'm still struggling to see why Carrier margins in the back half of the year wouldn't have substantial upside to your guidance here? What am I missing there? Terry I think couple of things to think about.
First is when you look at the margins or the decremental incremental margins based on just the reported volumes you got to take into account the divestitures that are happening because they have a slightly different impact on the margins.
And when I adjust for that at least internally when we look at it it looks like the margins in the back half of the year will be between 25% to 27% 28% as compared to a little over 30% by the first quarter.
So it's not a huge change in the incremental margins we are expecting on organic revenue for the back half.
And we can talk more off-line just to -- so I can take you through that math if you want.
But I also say Terry that there's a reason we put a plus next to the 275 or 250 rather 275 I should say.
And then on the Fire &amp; Security margin I guess going in the other way about 17% incremental despite the ongoing benefits of the GE Security integration.
How do you see that ramping through the year? And do you still feel like 15% margins 2012 is a high confidence number at this point? It is Terry.
I think we still feel good about it.
First quarter margins were a little light but not surprising because F&amp;S as you know has been investing in the sales force and in E&amp;D that we'll talked about in March.
So some of those costs are coming in while we continue to get the benefits of the field integration efforts that have been put in place.
So as volume comes back and we do expect organic growth to be higher for the rest of the year you would expect greater conversion or better drop-through in terms of returns from those investments.
So I think we do see accelerating margin expansion falls in the back half of this year at F&amp;S and that should continue and put us on good track for 15 by 12.
And just to understand the mix implications I think you called out Asia double digits; products up mid-single digits; and the rest of it is flat.
In terms of this organic pickup are you talking about the rest of the business you're non-Asia non-products picking up and that helps the margin? Because I would have thought the products piece is growing stronger than the other would've been good for margins? The products piece -- obviously the margins are a little bit better but we're really going to see this on the service and installation side.
That's where the recovery has to come in.
Akhil talked about -- we expect field productivity to get better during the course of the year.
We didn't see a lot of that in the first quarter but that's really where you're going to see the margin expansion because that's really -- that's structural cost that's been taking out.
As those incremental dollars come back you're going to see really strong conversion on those incremental sales.
And just -- I think I mentioned this earlier Terry but if you keep in mind the encouraging thing in Q1 orders for F&amp;S was that the organic growth in the service and install orders was better than we have seen all of 2010? It wasn't on the back of product orders.
And I think as those businesses do higher organic growth then the benefits of field conversion will be greater field integration will be greater.
What was that number on the Service orders organic again Akhil? Sorry if I missed that.
It went up to mid single digits in the first quarter organically.
And then just lastly on 2Q Greg I appreciate and you don't give EPS guidance but I'm just wondering if you might take through some of the items? You did call out the 2Q tax rate? Can you touch on Canadian Maritime impact? And then as it relates to Japan I mean obviously there is no full year impact but will there be some negative impact in 2Q that's offset by a recovery in 3Q or 4Q? Or is there no 2Q impact from Japan at all? A couple of things as you think about Q2.
Obviously the Canadian Maritime will continue to be a drag at Sikorsky.
We expect to deliver three Canadian Maritime helicopters.
We're losing $10 million to $12 million a piece on those.
So that will put Sikorsky's Q2 under a lot of pressure.
As far as Japan again we're talking less than $0.01 of impact here probably in the second quarter so any of that would be recovered in the third quarter.
But it's not -- it's really not significant in the second quarter.
Other than that -- and we've talked about the tax rate that's actually going down Q1 to Q2 and we had a couple of cents of uncovered restructuring.
In first quarter we'll probably have a couple of cents going in the other way in the second quarter.
So as we -- some rack and stack second quarter it looks pretty good.
And we'll go next to Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
A question Greg.
You talked about possibly accelerating E&amp;D with the A320 NEO.
Can you also add to that kind of our understanding as you embark on discussions on the A350 GTF potential? If that were to proceed how should we think about how that would affect E&amp;D heading into this year and over the next several years? Yes again we talked about the GTF on the A350 I think is way out into the future.
Pratt's got its hands full and we're focused really on the narrow-body with this engine.
I think the next place you're going to see an application for the GTF would either be on the next-generation Boeing aircraft or a number of [indiscernible] aircraft.
But I think the wide-body market is still probably I'm guessing 5 to 10 years out before we'd see any type of significant investment there.
Okay I wondered about that.
I thought it was the bigger leap so good to get that.
And then net on the Carrier side just to understand better you said you talked about residential being up in the mid-teens.
Can you give us some more granularity on what you're seeing on the puts and takes there? I mean are we sort of seeing we're scraping off the bottom in residential finally? I think again as we said entering the year we new the channel inventory was low.
And I go back to this whole issue of the replacement market housing is still anemic.
So all of the good news is really going to come on the replacement side or the add on replacement as we call it.
And there's I think I said this morning there's $93 million air-conditioners residential air-conditioners out there in the U.S.
and the replacement cycle would indicate the demand between $5 million and $6 million and the industry is only building $4.5 million.
So I really think there's just pent-up demand in the system and as the economy gets better as people feel better about their job prospects I would expect we're going to see more of the AOR business and that $4.5 million -- and will that go up a lot this year? Probably not but certainly the coming years we're going to see a recovery there.
That's the upside opportunity we have.
All right great.
And then one last question Greg on M&amp;A and a little bit of a devil's advocate question working a little bit off what Ron talked about earlier in this call.
Wouldn't it make sense that more strategic deals ought to occur when you're at the trough in the global economy right before we head into an upturn isn't that theoretically when you're going to have sort of the best opportunities? I think that's probably exactly right so I think that's why we paid $1.8 billion for the GE Security business a year ago.
That really was the trough of the market.
What we're seeing now is price expectations and stocks running up in anticipation of a broader market recovery and people's expectations running even ahead of that in terms of premiums on deals.
So we'd love to do deals.
We would love to deploy this cash that we've got.
We've got $4.2 billion of cash at the balance sheet.
We've got debt-to-cap at 31 so we've got a lot of powder.
But it's still got to be for the right deal.
I would tell you bringing Bill Brown down to the corporate office as Head of Corporate Strategy and M&amp;A it signals Louis intention I think we're going to turn up the game here but we're still going to be disciplined.
We're not going to go after things that don't make sense.
It's going to be in the court it's going to be for the right price.
And we'll go next to Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about price and orders? Obviously there was -- you alluded to some soft price in Otis in other places.
It kind of struck me though that even in Transicold containers where you're kind of back to peak volumes you're still seeing weak price.
Can you just give us a little bit of a lay of the land there and particularly in large kind of the heavy iron in Otis and Carrier Commercial are you at least seeing a little bit of firming of price or is it still kind of downward bias? I think Jeff Otis certainly is seeing pricing pressure not surprisingly because you know the market has been down for a long time.
And in that situation pricing does come under pressure.
It's in select geographies certain markets have always pay us price special.
And the good news is that Otis knows how to offset the impact of debt through cost reduction.
They're extremely good at doing that and that's why they're being able to maintain the margins at the levels that they have.
So I think that's nothing new.
On the Commercial side of our Carrier pricing is as you would expect in projects it's project-dependent.
The energy efficiency projects which have a good payback generally tend to be better from a price point of view and there are some others which are new construction-related where pricing can be tougher.
Can you give us a sense of that mix how much activity you're actually seeing in physical square footage addition and some of these commercial markets relative to kind of the energy retrofit? A lot of what we are seeing is on the energy retrofit side because I think especially with the prices fuel prices are our concern and energy efficiency being more topical with new introduction of new energy efficiency -- energy efficient products out of Carrier.
I think there is a lot of what we are seeing on that side of the equation and not very much on the new construction.
Just to be clear though there's really that economy in the market where you got the U.S.
and Europe where the focus is on energy efficiency and that's where the BSS or the Global HVAC business is doing well.
As well in China which has just really the boom in new construction.
There continues we see at Otis and the orders were up 17%.
We saw the Carrier orders were up 34% in the quarter.
So that's not just the energy efficiency play.
That is really just where the market is going.
And on containers the sloppiness there is just what's driving that? There's still excess capacity there although we're back to peak volumes? We're close to peak volumes.
I think again there's just a lot of pressure we're seeing at the leasing companies come in to the marketplace and there is pricing pressure.
There is competition out there.
We're trying to maintain our share and we're going to do it profitably.
We'll go next to Robert Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC</strong> Greg I was just wanted to ask a couple of question on the Aerospace aftermarket would it be fair to say that your performance in Q1 has beaten your expectations and therefore you've taken down your forecast through the back half of the year? No it wouldn't be fair.
Look the first quarter was very solid.
But if you take a look at the run rate at Pratt for spares in the first quarter it's really the run rate where we expect for the first full year.
If you go back to last year's first quarter which was just awful from the spares.
It went down significantly so this is just kind of a snapback but we're still expecting a kind of low-double-digit growth in spares for Pratt for the year and the same at Hamilton it's just -- this is an abnormally easy compare to last year.
We're down 15% last year.
LLC</strong> Yes so you'd expect growth in orders in the second half to be roughly half of what you're seeing at the moment? Yes that's probably right.
Because again remember we had a huge fourth quarter last year with orders up over 40% up more than 30% last year's third quarter.
So the compares get really really tough.
And you've got the dynamic of oil and what's that going to do to the airlines' buying behavior in the back half of the year.
But we would stand by the forecast of kind of low double-digit.
Could we get surprise on the upside? Maybe but again it's still April.
LLC</strong> And then secondly I was wondering if you could give us an update on the 787 or whether you've included any initial 78's bearing in that? We do have in Hamilton's outlook for the year.
Some initial provision although it's relatively modest the first customer for 787 is actually ANA All Nippon Airways and they're actually going to be on our CARE program which is a nose-to-tail program where there won't be much provisioning.
So really the big bump is going to come next year as Boeing ramps up production and some of the airlines start taking initial provisioning.
We'll go next to Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> So you're up $88 million year-over-year in R&amp;D in the first quarter.
I would assume Pratt's going to continue to build.
So could you be up more than two in the quarter? I mean help us understand that pattern and what drives it? We talked about for the full year we're going to be up $200 million to $225 million with probably bias to the upside.
Pratt's got $175 million of that $200 million to $225 million increase built-in.
So the run rate increase probably won't be this big in the coming quarters.
Again we ramped up spending last year as the year went on.
But clearly there's a bias on the upside for Pratt on the E&amp;D line.
LLC</strong> Okay and then you'd mentioned that the uncovered restructuring but you also mentioned $20 million of nonrecurring cap gains at Carrier in the quarter.
Were there any other nonrecurring gains or negatives in the operations? Yes Cai I did mention that in the Pratt segment there was also a gain roughly $15 million which offset the pension costs and that had to do with divestiture of a motion we had in the joint venture.
LLC</strong> Okay but $15 million plus $20 million is $35 million so that's actually larger than the restructuring because pension has kind of an ongoing issue.
Is that...
It's about even yes.
LLC</strong> And then the last one you're basically were down at Sikorsky in the first quarter with the three Canadian helicopter it sounds like it's a pretty tough second quarter.
If you're going to be up $100 million for the year it assumes huge numbers in the second half.
Is that achievable? Or is that maybe have a little bit of a risk to that number? It is achievable.
I would tell you it's not without risk.
I think we've got to see a return of growth in the aftermarket at Sikorsky on the commercial side.
We need to see a little bit of a recovery on the Commercial side.
Most of that increase is going to come from the factory floor that's cost takeout and I think we're confident as far as our ability to take out costs in the production cycle.
But it's still is dependent upon the market recovery on the commercial side.
We'll go next to David Strauss with UBS.
Greg could you reconcile where we are now with the contingency? I think we started $200 million.
You took some in at the Investor Day.
Where do we stand now with the contingency? At the high-end of the range today I would tell you that the math that we used to get to the contingency is about zero.
But again I think there's probably still upside in the potential.
You've got the euro potential upside and perhaps Carrier in the second quarter if the good news there continues.
But the math that we talked about the $200 million contingency remember that was at the midpoint of the initial range.
Now we move that range up from 520 to 533 is the midpoint.
At the high-end of that essentially 0 but still we feel pretty comfortable with where we are.
And at Carrier can you run us through your assumptions around res for the full year commercial for the full year in terms of volumes? And then also at the Transicold and Commercial relative to the low double-digit organic growth you're looking at for the full year? Yes I think this is -- the only real change based on first quarter is at the Transicold business where we think instead of being up over 10% which is what Geraud mentioned in March we probably think it's more like 15% to 20%.
And that's the primary reason for the uptick of the Carrier guidance.
For most of the other markets even the res was a little stronger in the first quarter.
It is a low quarter and also some of it had to do with the distributor restocking that we talked about.
So we still think that for the full year between 5% to 10% for U.S.
residential is an appropriate level at this point.
And for the Commercial HVAC similarly I think we talked about mid-single-digit type of growth on an organic basis.
So not much change in the assumptions for other markets except for Transicold which we think will be higher now.
And then similar question at Otis.
Your mid single-digit organic growth rate assumption what are you assuming now for -- are you still -- can we maybe assume kind of low to mid single-digit growth on new equipment revenues? Yes.
Yes.
And last one for me I think I recall that back in December interest expense Greg you talked about it being higher in 2011 relative to last year yet it was much lower in the first quarter.
What are you thinking about in terms of interest expense through the year? We still think that the overall interest expense would probably be flattish year-over-year.
We're going to issue some additional debt here probably second or third quarter depending upon cash flow.
But it looks like we'll probably go to market maybe in the second quarter early third quarter.
But we'll see how that all goes.
Also last year interest expense is a little elevated in the third quarter.
We had some charges associated with some tax reserves.
We had to put up some interest on those tax reserves so it makes the compare a little difficult.
We'll take our next question from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Greg you said that on the F-35 engine that LRIP 4 versus LRIP 3 that your costs are down 16%.
Is that a measure of the pricing in LRIP 4 your cost base? Or is it both that are down? It's both.
This is all cost-based pricing that we're doing out there.
We're right down the slope that we had agreed to with the JPO that's the JSF program office.
As we get into full rate production here in the next couple of years so they're on the -- the glide path are getting the cost out as a result of -- that the cell prices are coming down in line with the government's expectations.
Are they going to be happy? Probably not.
But the fact is we're right on top of where we committed to be so.
We feel pretty good about that.
Inc.</strong> And then on the Geared Turbofan on the A320neo can you give a sense as to how your discussions are going? What I mean by that is right now if you look at the series of negotiations you may be having are those say a few? Are you talking about dozens? What's the scale of the interest in this engine? There's a lot of interest out there.
It is not just a few.
I'd say there are numerous airline customers that we're out there talking to.
And NEO it's a great place to be.
I think the value that the GTF brings to the table is really recognized by the airlines.
I think that's why we won this first three and I'd expect that there will be more by the time we get to Paris because people see the value proposition of JSF.
This thing saves $1.5 million per airplane per year.
So again I think pricing it's not awful.
In fact I would tell you the pricing on these initial orders is actually better than what we saw on other initial orders for our new platform introductions.
So I feel pretty good about where we are.
Inc.</strong> And if you found the challenge on pricing to be more on engine price or on how you're looking at guarantees with respect to maintenance cost liability? It's all a package as you come to the end of it.
But the fact is the GTF as we told you as we told our customers we're going to see about a 25% reduction in maintenance cost over the life of the program so that's being reflected.
But again I think we're getting the value from that from the customers.
We'll go next to George Shapiro with Access 342.
Greg or Akhil sequentially the spares at Pratt I assume were probably down a little bit because of your natural price increase on January.
Was that also true with Hamilton Sundstrand? That's true in both cases yes.
Does Hamilton get a price increase in January as well? Yes they have the same catalog price increase that goes out to the 1st of October just like Pratt is effective January 1 of this year so same kind of phenomenon.
And I think you mentioned Akhil that Hamilton Sundstrand the book-to-bill was above one was that above one at Pratt as well? Pratt was almost exactly one and Hamilton was slightly above one.
And then you mentioned that the Sikorsky was hurt in the quarter because you have the one Canadian delivery which you've talked about but also less S-92's.
Can you quantify how many less you had versus last year? Yes they were about three less S-92's and that a little more than $0.01 of impact to Sikorsky's results.
Okay and if I look at Carrier and Transicold it would seem like Transicold was probably up north of $200 million in revenues in the quarter and probably would've been $75 million or so profit contribution.
Are those numbers in the ballpark? Yes not that far.
Okay and then just at Otis the services you said were up in the quarter or just assume they're kind of up to normal 4% or so? Yes they are George.
Okay we'll go to Julian Mitchell of Credit Suisse.
Greg I just had a question really on the year-on-year sort of implied growth rates in your earnings versus your sales.
Because I understand the organic sales growth and comps get tougher as you go through the year.
If you look at earnings growth your full year guidance implies I guess earnings growth exiting this year is around half the 19% that you did in Q1.
But it sounds as if example the E&amp;D headwind gets a bit less in terms of year-on-year effect in the second half.
So is there anything beyond just organic sales growth slowing that you think will affect incremental margins overall in the second half perhaps I guess the commodity thing you mentioned earlier? That's one Julian.
Also keep in mind that restructuring in excess of gains last year was like $0.17 in the first half and it was only $0.12 in the second half.
And this year we're talking about being equal in both halves.
So I think that does drive a little bit of the EPS compares as well.
And just in Otis I mean you mentioned pricing yourself earlier.
One of your peers in Europe obviously made a big deal about it in their sort of prepared comments this morning as well on their earnings.
Is there anything actually changing there? Or is it just -- it's always a steady-state sort of tough pricing environment? I mean pricing has been tougher as Akhil mentioned over the last couple of years as the market has been dropping here in the U.S.
and in Europe.
Pricing has just gotten progressively tougher because there were fewer jobs to go after.
And we're trying to retain pricing discipline.
I think Otis has done that while maintaining its share in the market but pricing is tough.
And I think that will play itself out here as you see we start delivering these orders in the next 12 months.
Okay as we close out the call I just want to thank everybody for listening but I also want to say a special thanks to Jay Malave who'll be leaving the IR team next week to take over as Vice President of Financial Planning and Analysis and Treasury at Hamilton Sundstrand.
Jay has done a great job these past years.
We wish him well.
Replacing Jay is Imelda Suit.
Imelda has come to us from Otis where she was responsible for FP&amp;A as well as Treasury Service and Business Development at Otis' North and South American operations.
Jay and Imelda will be on the call later today so please take a chance to wish them both well.
We close such a great start for the year.
One that gives us confidence in the outlook and we look forward to talking to you later today.
Thank you.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Okay thank you Dana and good morning everyone.
As you saw on the press release this morning we had another solid quarter with organic sales growth of 6% and that's after 9% organic growth in the first quarter.
You'll recall that we actually saw the recovery in our sales group start in the second quarter of last year where we saw 4% organic growth.
So with 5 consecutive quarters of organic growth under our belt we're confident now in the sustainability of the recovery in our end markets and we're confident in our full year forecast organic sales growth of 5%.
Earnings per share in the quarter $1.45.
That's up 21%.
Continued focus on cost reduction and operating leverage from higher sales through a segment margin expansion even as we increased investments in engineering and development.
It is no surprise that most of that E&amp;D increase was at Pratt &amp; Whitney as we continued to invest in the development of multiple Geared Turbofan platforms.
We're clearly operating in a better economic environment than a year ago.
However most measures still point to a slow and uneven recovery.
High unemployment a weak housing sector and a deficit standoff in Washington all continue to dampen consumer sentiment here in the U.S.
Our European sovereign debt worries still plague financial markets and constrain government spending in the EU.
On the other hand emerging markets continue on their growth trajectories even with the adoption of cooling measures by the various governments to hold down inflation.
And importantly airlines continue to fill seats in spite of higher airfares.
So with this uneven economic backdrop we continue to see sales and order rates consistent with our full year expectations for most of our businesses.
Carrier's Transicold business remains exceptionally strong more than offsetting a softer U.S.
residential HVAC market.
This improved Carrier outlook along with the translation-related benefits from a weaker U.S.
dollar gives us confidence to raise the sales and earnings outlook for 2011 one more time.
We now expect sales of around $58 billion.
That's up from $57 billion we've previously estimated and now up nearly 7% from 2010.
We also expect 2011 EPS to be in a range of $5.35 to $5.45.
That's up from our previous guidance of $5.25 to $5.40.
That's a range of 13% to 15% up over 2010.
The foreign exchange has clearly been a benefit so far this year and the Euro has averaged $1.40 for the first half of the year as compared to our original assumption of $1.35.
So now we're assuming that we're going to continue to see this year average of $1.40 for the balance of the year.
This FX benefit and the improved Carrier outlook will more than offset additional engineering and development investments at Pratt &amp; Whitney and a lower outlook at Fire &amp; Security in our increased guidance.
Before I start with the second quarter discussion just a reminder that we'll talk to you -- talk to the segment results adjusted for restructuring in onetime items just as we usually do.
Okay turning to Slide 2 2nd quarter results.
You can see sales up 9% with 6 points organic revenue growth.
More importantly this is the first time in 3 years that all of our businesses reported year-over-year organic sales growth reflecting a broad based improvement in our end markets.
And we still have runway with most of our businesses well below peak levels with the exception of Carrier's Transicold business and Hamilton Sundstrand's industrial businesses both of which are now likely to be at or near their 2008 peaks.
In the quarter Carrier again led the way with 11% organic growth while Otis' sales were up 3% organically.
That's after 9 quarters of year-over-year decline at Otis.
So a real turning point there.
As I mentioned earlier earnings per share in the second quarter were up 21%.
Restructuring expenses were offset by onetime gains in the quarter compared to a net charge of $0.12 last year.
Excluding restructuring and onetime items second quarter EPS increased 10% and foreign currency was a net benefit of $0.06 in the quarter.
Gross [ph] segment operating profit increased 10% even with $67 million of higher engineering and development investments.
Segment operating margin was 15.9%.
That expanded 20 basis points with 5 of our 6 businesses reporting higher margins.
Carrier segment margins were up 110 basis points to 13.9%.
Now with Carrier's operating margins now at 12.9% for the first half of the year it's highly likely they'll be close to their 12% margin target for the year.
And that's one full year ahead of schedule.
Okay maybe the one soft spot in the quarter.
I think the one thing of course that my boss is not very happy about in the quarter free cash flow is only 80% of net income which is of course below our normal benchmark of 100%.
Working capital increased by more than $600 million in the quarter due to higher shipments across the businesses and the timing of cash receipts.
However we point out for the year we're very confident that free cash flow will still equal or exceed net income.
Share repurchase was $750 million in the quarter and year-to-date we've invested $1.5 billion in share repurchase a pace well ahead of our guidance of $2.5 billion for the year.
Acquisition spend was light again.
And year-to-date we spent $184 million.
Our Bill Brown and his team continue to work on a robust pipeline and deals are hard to predict.
As you've seen in the past in the GE Security acquisition we have the appetite and the capacity for large acquisitions and we know how to integrate them well.
That said given that it's already July we will likely spend less than the $1.5 billion placeholder on M&amp;A this year and will likely spend slightly more than the $2.5 billion placeholder on share buyback.
Okay on Slide 3 orders.
We continue to see strong order trends in the aerospace aftermarket with Pratt &amp; Whitney large commercial spares up 23% and Hamilton commercial spare orders up 25%.
At constant currency Otis new equipment orders grew 15% and Carrier's global Commercial HVAC equipment orders were up 9%.
That's a positive sign for commercial construction.
Emerging markets continue to do well with particular strength in the BRIC countries where combined orders for the commercial business units were up 26%.
So solid quarter strong organic sales growth earnings growth and margin expansion all while continuing to make significant investments in these new technologies.
I'll come back and talk a little bit more about the back half of 2011.
But for now let me turn over to Akhil to take you through the business unit results.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 4.
Otis delivered a strong quarter with profits up 14% on sales growth of 12%.
Operating margin expanded another 20 basis points to 23.4%.
Foreign currency accounted for 10 points of profit growth and 8 points of sales growth.
New equipment sales were up 8% in the quarter at constant currency led by strong growth in China and Russia.
Service sales were also up in the quarter with continued growth in contractual maintenance and repair.
New equipment orders increased 15% at constant currency led by China where orders were up close to 30%.
Orders in North America were up mid-single digit while orders in Europe were flattish.
Pricing remained under pressure in most markets.
After including the translation benefits from a weaker U.S.
dollar we now expect full year profit at Otis to grow around $225 million as compared to the prior guidance of approximately $150 million.
Sales are now expected to grow high single digit based on FX.
On Slide 5 Carrier posted another very strong quarter with profits up $78 million or 20% on 10% higher sales.
As Greg said operating margin for the quarter was 13.9% up 110 basis points from prior year.
Organic sales growth was 11% led by continued rebound of the Transicold refrigeration market.
Transicold showed strength across all products and geographies with sales up organically more than 40% led by the refrigerated container business.
On the other hand North America residential shipments moderated this quarter after a strong start to the year.
While split system unit shipments were up mid-teens this was offset by a double-digit decline in gas furnaces.
Earnings growth was driven by volume strong conversion from continued productivity and cost reduction and about $15 million earnings improvement in our Japan joint venture from business transformation actions.
The first half growth in Carrier's Transicold business was truly exceptional.
We expect more normal growth rates in the balance of the year for Carrier.
After a first half organic growth of 14% we expect Carrier's organic sales to be up about 10% for the year.
Given the strong first half performance we are increasing Carrier's profit growth guidance for the year to about $325 million from $250 million-plus previously.
UTC Fire &amp; Security delivered profit growth of 15% in the quarter on 8% higher sales.
Organically sales were up 4% with mid-single-digit growth in the products businesses.
Among the service and install businesses we saw high single-digit growth in Asia and Australia and high single-digit contraction in the U.K.
Second quarter orders grew organically 5%.
Backlog continues to expand and is up approximately 15% organically year-over-year and from the beginning of the year.
Operating profit in the quarter grew 8% at constant currency.
Favorable litigation resolution contributed around $25 million of profit growth.
Benefit from higher overall volumes was more than offset by substantial profit decline in the U.K.
from lower sales and productivity.
For the full year we now expect F&amp;S operating profit to be up approximately $150 million instead of the prior guidance of $175 million as benefits from a weaker U.S.
dollar and favorable onetime gains are likely to be more than offset by lower-than-expected organic growth for F&amp;S as a whole and lower margins in the U.K.
We continue to expect F&amp;S sales to be up high single digit.
Turning to aerospace on Slide 7.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney sales were up 5% driven primarily by higher overall aftermarket sales.
Large commercial engine spares sales were in line with expectations and up more than 20% over the second quarter of 2010.
Operating profit was down 7% in the quarter.
The benefits from net higher sales and restructuring savings were more than offset by a nearly $70 million increase in E&amp;D unfavorable engine mix in both the large commercial and military businesses and higher pension costs.
Operating margin for the quarter was 14.3% down 190 basis points year-over-year due to the impact of higher E&amp;D and the unfavorable engine mix.
As a result of higher E&amp;D investments primarily from timing of programs Pratt's operating profit is now likely to be down around $100 million for the year as compared with prior guidance of down $50 million.
We also expect Pratt &amp; Whitney sales to be up slightly for the year.
Hamilton Sundstrand delivered a solid quarter with 13% profit growth on 11% higher sales.
Organic growth was 8 points while foreign currency translation contributed 3 points.
Sales growth in the quarter was driven by continuing strength in the industrial and aerospace aftermarket businesses.
Commercial spares were up around 35% while aero OEM sales were flattish as commercial aero growth was offset by declines in space and defense.
Profit growth in the quarter reflects the benefit of net higher sales and slightly lower E&amp;D partially offset by higher program costs.
Operating margin was up 40 basis points year-over-year to 17.7%.
Commercial spares orders increased 25% versus last year with book-to-bill slightly below one.
Industrial orders were up about 20% and remained particularly strong at Sullair.
This quarter we also saw an improvement in the longer cycle Sundyne business.
For the full year Hamilton Sundstrand remains on track to increase operating profit by about $100 million with mid-single-digit sales growth.
Turning to Sikorsky on Slide 9.
Operating profit increased 17% on 6% higher sales.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 70 large aircraft 2 more than the second quarter of 2010.
57 aircraft were based on military platforms and 13 commercial including only one Canadian Maritime Helicopter.
Higher sales in the quarter were driven by increased aftermarket volumes and higher commercial aircraft deliveries partially offset by lower international and military aircraft deliveries.
Operating margin expanded 110 basis points in the quarter to 11.5% primarily reflecting the benefits of higher aftermarket volumes low-cost sourcing and slightly lower E&amp;D.
For the full year at Sikorsky we continue to expect profit growth of approximately $100 million on sales growth of mid to high single digit.
With that let me turn it over to Greg for wrap-up.
Okay thanks Akhil.
We're on Slide 10 now for those of you following along.
A solid quarter.
Continued momentum on organic sales growth puts us on track to deliver on improved sales and earnings outlook for the full year.
I think that's the really good news here.
It was also great to see Otis report organic growth for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2008.
And of course it's heartening to see Carrier continuing to deliver on its operational and portfolio transformation agenda with a very strong quarter.
Also in the quarter some big accomplishments.
Otis won a contract to modernize and maintain the Empire State Building elevators as their biggest modernization contract in history.
On the aero side we achieved a major milestone on Pratt &amp; Whitney's Geared Turbofan.
Pratt's first GTF engine for the CSeries aircraft successfully completed its first flight on June 20 and it validated the performance metrics that make it an industry leader on fuel burn noise and emissions.
Hamilton Sundstrand is firmly on track to support the 787 entry into service which we now expect to be in September.
And Sikorsky's BLACK HAWK platform continues to drive international growth with significant wins this quarter in both Australia and Turkey.
So with solid results year-to-date and the healthy order trends we're confident in achieving the increased outlook of $5.35 to $5.45 for EPS on sales of around $58 billion.
That's earnings growth as I said before of 13% to 15% on sales up nearly 7%.
This conversation wouldn't be complete if we didn't talk a little bit about some of the concerns.
So let me tell you first of all that we're confident in our cost reduction efforts and our initiatives to drive growth.
There are concerns out there.
We all know what they are and it's a sluggish recovery in the U.S.
a weak consumer sentiment.
There's continuing uncertainty in Europe.
And we hear a lot about commodity inflation driven by emerging market demands as well as high oil prices which are putting a damper on airline profits.
We know about these things but we're focused on doing things under -- focus on what we can control.
And that's cost and that's delivering value to customers.
We also talked about pressure on E&amp;D as we continue to invest in these innovative new technologies particularly as we ramp up multiple next-generation product platforms with Pratt &amp; Whitney.
For the full year we now expect engineering and development to increase by at least $275 million.
We also expect restructuring expenses of around $200 million for the year.
And for the full year consistent with our prior expectations we see onetime gains will offset restructuring expense for the year.
Other couple of changes.
Effective tax rate will be a little bit higher we think about 31% now for the year.
That's up from the 30.5% we previously looked to or previously estimated.
And we'll use that additional tax or the higher tax rate to repatriate some additional foreign cash later this year.
As I mentioned before free cash flow is slightly before 100 -- slightly below 100% of net income in the first half.
We're still confident that free cash flow will equal or exceed net income for the full year.
We continue to expect solid conversion for organic sales growth for the balance of the year based on our relentless focus on costs and continuing to take advantage of operating leverage across our businesses.
So overall we're very confident in our improved 2011 outlook.
We've got a great seasoned management team that's focused on positioning the business for long-term growth with innovative products a global market presence and flawless execution.
Now let me stop there.
Let's open up the call for some questions.
Greg real strong performance out of Otis and Carrier in the quarter relative to our expectations.
And I'm wondering on Otis if you can just talk about the step-up in profit forecast there given the pricing pressure comments that you made.
It doesn't look like maybe the mix is as much of a headwind as you thought before.
What are the dynamics at Otis that are going on? And then maybe you can address some of the press reports on the China issue there if there's anything to talk about there.
Yes first I think in Otis they had a very good quarter.
Continued to grow earnings continued to deliver on conversion.
So even the operating profit or segment op margin I think it was up 20 basis points for them.
Obviously they do benefit from the mix shift.
Right now about 60% of their business is service about 40% new equipment.
And we're going to see some pressure going forward I would tell you on that margin as new equipment starts to pick up.
And we had a good quarter.
I think 15% on a constant currency basis increase in orders.
Very very strong in China up almost 30% in orders.
So again good growth there good growth around the word.
We saw good growth in Russia in India in Brazil.
The U.S.
Europe kind of a different story.
Kind of flattish.
The U.S.
is a tougher compare because of the big order we had last year with the LAX airport.
But I think good momentum across the new equipment business at Otis and as always a strong focus on cost control which is why you're seeing these very very strong margins.
The second part of your question I think everybody has heard there was an incident in the Beijing metro a week or so ago a tragic accident where we had a -- one of our escalators fail.
We're obviously working with the people in Beijing.
We've identified the problem.
It's a pretty small -- probably -- so think about escalator sales in Otis.
It's really less than 10% of their total China revenue.
This particular model is less than 200 of them in service.
So we're out there obviously actively working to correct the problem.
We've identified the root cause and we've got to make sure it doesn't happen again.
But no big financial impact we think to Otis.
Obviously just a terrible accident.
And then Greg just on Carrier's second half implied guidance.
I mean you're up almost $300 million in profit in the first half year-over-year.
I think you had mentioned 6% organic assumption for the second half.
Can you take us through the pieces within Carrier around that 6%? And then it does look like the flow-through on the second half year-over-year revenue increase is kind of light.
And is that caution? Is that copper prices moving up? Or what's driving that? Oh Let me start and I'm going to have Akhil fill you in with the details.
The first half on an adjusted basis we're up about $245 million.
There's about another $80 million of back half earnings growth that we see.
Again we saw very strong organic growth in the first half of the year driven by Transicold.
That's going to slow down beginning in the back half of the year.
And so again that's a high-margin business.
We see good sales conversion on that.
So you're going to see a little bit lower conversion in the back half of the year.
But having said that I think all of the businesses are hitting on all cylinders there.
And slowest in the residential side but still I think good earnings momentum there and it's going to be a good year.
You just have to remember the compares get tougher in the back half of the year not just for Carrier but on the commercial aero aside as well.
And that's why again a very strong first half.
It will have a good back half but probably not the same big headlines that we saw here in the front.
Yes just a couple of data points to add what Greg said.
I mean first half organic growth for Carrier nearly 50% of that came from Transicold which as you know is the high-margin business.
In the back half that slows down a little bit because of tougher compares.
Transicold had started recovering last year as you will recall and certainly in the fourth quarter.
So you'll see probably 10% of Carrier's organic growth in the second half will be from Transicold.
And what picks up is international residential particularly Latin America which is one of the lower margin businesses.
So I think there's a little bit of impact from that base [ph].
And in reality 23% conversion in the back half is not really something to feel bad about.
I think it's a pretty good conversion still given that mix issue.
That's helpful.
Just sticking with Carrier for our first question.
Could you guys comment on whether Transicold was up or down sequentially from Q1? And then just a little bit of commentary maybe on the gas furnaces which is something we pay a little bit less attention to maybe than the splits.
What were the different demand dynamics there? And why was that down? Transicold was slightly -- was flattish although container which is a big part of that business was down in the second quarter compared to the first.
Not surprising Joe because I think as we talked about first quarter container was very very strong.
And if that run rate had continued the implied market for the year would be 60% above their prior peak which was not going to hold.
So I think that's the -- so we see the trends which are not surprising at all.
The truck trailer business picked up a little bit.
Yes I think too on gas furnaces obviously we've seen the impact in the quarter of the elimination of stimulus during the year.
Gas furnace was down.
I think cooling was up in the quarter.
So the net residential effect was about flat.
I think the good news is Carrier's got a great new product they're introducing in the back half of the year.
The new Aurora [ph] is a very high-efficiency furnace.
We hope to actually use that to leverage sales growth in the fourth quarter and into next year.
But again it goes back to it's a slow economy out there on the consumer side.
Housing still relatively anemic.
But again positioning ourselves making investments today to grow on a long term.
And then second question just turning over to Pratt.
You bumped up your E&amp;D expectation.
Is there -- and I know you have got a lot going on there.
We understand of course why E&amp;D is going up.
But in terms of the incremental change in the quarter are there areas you're struggling on with the GTF that you have to put more resources into? I didn't really see any acceleration of any schedules out there in terms of your platforms during the quarter.
So just wondering what that is due to.
Oh I think what we saw in the quarter is the run rate on E&amp;D picked up a little bit from the first quarter.
And so that run rate that we saw in the second quarter we just recognized is going to continue on through the year.
So I think in total E&amp;D at Pratt will be approaching $1 billion for the year.
The key here is to get ahead of the curve here and to continue to make these investments to make sure that we're ahead of the schedule.
Airbus obviously is anxious to get the engine out there.
We've pulled that schedule up.
We've said before about 6 months from our original expectations.
But the key here is just making sure we get everything done ahead of schedule because if you get behind schedule these programs get very expensive.
And Pratt as we said before they have to execute flawlessly on these programs.
And to the credit of the folks over at Pratt &amp; Whitney I think they're spending the resources they're spending the money today.
And they're getting the results right? We validated the CSeries on the first flight.
We met the fuel burn.
We met noise we met emissions.
So everything is going along.
But there's a lot on their plate.
Can you comment Greg more quantitatively in any way you see that if possible? Help us understand exactly how you're tracking relative to plan not from a dollar standpoint but how many boxes are you checking on the program relative to where you should be.
Yes we just had our operating review with Pratt &amp; Whitney last week.
And it's a great question Joe because again as you're spending all this money the question is are you spending it as efficiently and as effectively as possible.
So we have something called an earned value management system which tracks the progress that you're making on a day-to-day basis with each dollar that you spend.
And I think what was heartening for us is that Bob Sigh [ph] who heads the program said they are right on track from an earned value standpoint from the cost.
The dollars that we're spending so far have been as efficient as we had expected them to be.
So it's not to say there's not going to be problems later on but I said so far I think we're doing great job.
On Sikorsky we're expecting 3 the Maritime deliveries.
Does that change the outlook for deliveries for the second half? Yes absolutely.
I think for the full year we're still at 6.
So year-to-date we've only gotten 2 out.
So you'll see again some of the -- I think probably 3 push into Q3 and then most likely 1 into Q4.
Okay and then over at Fire &amp; Security the softer operating profit outlook you tied it to both I think it was lower demand and also lower margins in the U.K.
I was hoping you could expand on both of those.
Yes I think Deane as you know the U.K.
issue first the government austerity there is hitting the F&amp;S business significantly because as you know the U.K.
is a pretty big portion of total F&amp;S and the government jobs were higher margin.
And with them going away there has been some kind of a negative pressure on the margins.
They've also had challenges with some of their portfolio attrition rate which has been decent but the margins they're losing on some of those contracts is being replaced with lower margin contracts and that's hurting a little bit.
And finally I think the thing which Scott is focused on -- very much so -- is that costs were added a little ahead of the sales.
There was a significant number of sales force additions in that country and we haven't seen the sales to support that.
So costs are a little ahead of schedule there.
And with all that comes some pressure on margin.
But Scott and team are on it and it will be addressed.
So no change to the Fire &amp; Security target margin for 2012? Plus 15%? No I think what you're going to see Deane is the margins will be north of 13% this year.
We'll get good margin expansion.
Obviously we're disappointed in the first half.
But these are things that we can fix.
Scott Louis focused on this with the team.
We're going to get these things behind us.
And I think that 15% target is still out there.
It's still something we're going to focus on achieving next year.
I think it's -- we've got a roadmap to get there.
Just a quick question for you on the interest expense here running a little bit light in the first half relative to I think you're looking for flat year-over-year.
Is that still the expectation? Or are you going to run at this run rate for the rest of the year? Myles I think the rate goes up a little bit in the back half because we do -- we are still planning to issue some debt in the third quarter.
So I think what we see is probably $50 million reduction in interest expense for the year as compared with -- I think what we were really thinking would be flattish.
So some good news there yes.
And then the F-22 sounds like it's being held in terms of deliveries at the OEM level from the oxygen distribution system.
Is that affecting the military engine shipments as well? Are you continuing to ship those at pace? Yes now for the F-22 we're in the process of shipping spare engines right now.
In fact the production engines those are all gone.
This is just we're finishing up this year and into next.
I think by next April or May we're done with the spares.
And then that'll be it for Pratt in terms of F-22 SDF [ph] 119 engine.
I just want to talk to you quickly about the announcement this morning out of American.
Oh yes what's that? But thinking about the GTF on the neos.
It didn't go that way.
I mean were you surprised by that? I mean how much of a campaign was it for you guys? How should we think about that? Well let's be clear.
There's been no engine selection on the A320neo.
I think the only news in terms of engine selections is the fact that Boeing has decided on an interim basis to re-engine the 737 with the leadbacks.
But I think the engine competition is still out in front of us.
In fact I think it's -- this decision by American to go with Airbus to break up the Boeing monopoly that they've had on the fleet is really a testament to the success we've had on the GTF and what we've been able to do in terms of performance.
I fully expect you're going to -- the A320 family of aircraft with the GTF power is going to outperform the 737 in the current configuration.
The neo is still the best value out there.
And we've got a real engine we've met the performance criteria already and we're going to get there sooner than GE and CFMI.
So I think it's actually good news for us in the fact that we've opened up the possibility of Airbus aircraft at AMR and we think we've got a very good shot at putting our engine on those aircraft.
LLC</strong> Greg can you talk a little bit about I guess the balance sheet and just the cash which is one is why were receivables up I guess $540 million or so in the quarter? Anything in particular driving that? And then secondly to get to the $4 billion or so that you said between buyback and acquisition this year means you've got about $2.5 billion left to spend.
If I look at where you are at the end of this quarter you still got $5.4 billion or so in cash certainly more than enough and you're going to continue to generate cash.
So what is the right cash balance we -- you should be targeting as we go through the year? To your point on the balance sheet first of all back to cash flow.
Obviously the growth in receivables it's mostly at Carrier.
Obviously that's again part of the selling season.
I think we missed the -- a little bit of -- a few cash receipts that we had been expecting.
There was some timing on a couple of issues.
But nothing really that gives us concern here.
This is really just I think a week-to-week a month-to-month time issue.
So for the full year we feel very confident about hitting the free cash flow and net income target.
As far as the balance sheet goes look there's lots of firepower sitting there.
We've got $5.4 billion of cash at the end of the quarter.
Debt-to-cap is a little north of 32%.
Right now we're going to buy back stock because we don't see the right M&amp;A target out there.
But I would tell you that Louis that Bill and the team are focused on doing some transactions.
And eventually we're going to get there.
In the interim we're going to use the cash use the capital that we have to deploy it effectively and that's right now share buyback which you look at the quarter we picked up a couple of points of earnings EPS because of share buyback.
We've taken 100 million shares out of the count in the last 6 years by share buyback and it's still a very good accretive investment.
But we want to do deals and it's all about timing.
LLC</strong> But you've said being north of $2.5 billion in buyback this year.
I don't know if we should be using this Q2 run rate.
But I guess what I'm trying to ask is you ended last year at over $4 billion in cash.
I mean it still seems like you're running with an awful lot of cash.
And really what should that balance be? Well obviously we are running with a lot of cash.
But again we use that cash every day in our operations.
So again a big piece of that cash probably north of $5 billion is sitting overseas.
So we use that to fund our overseas operations.
So if you think about it can you -- you probably don't have access to every single dollar out there but we do put most of it to use every day through our inter-company lending program.
And look it's higher than we want it to be in terms of the cash balance because the M&amp;A spend has been light.
I think again you'll see us take up share buyback.
Probably it's in the third quarter probably to the same pace that we saw in the first half of the year.
Again we just don't see a big call from M&amp;A right now.
But these things they can change quickly.
I'm reminded.
Two years ago in June of 2008 GE Security wasn't on the horizon.
And by the end of the year we had inked a deal for $1.8 billion with GE.
So these things can happen quickly.
LLC</strong> So then one last question.
Just in terms of your thoughts with regards to what was going on in Europe with Otis.
In particular a fine.
I don't know exactly when it gets resolved.
But how do you factor that and that likelihood into your outlook especially in 2011 for Otis? Well in fact we just heard back from the first appellate court that we took the case to.
And In fact we did not get any relief from the fine that we originally paid I guess 4 years ago now of about EUR 300 million.
So we hadn't been counting to get any money back.
I think we still believe we have some opportunity there.
We're probably going to appeal.
There's a latest ruling I think to the European Court of Justice.
But I'm not going to bake any of that in.
I think those are things that if they happened they're very nice and we'll use that kind of a onetime gain to invest some place else in the business.
So we didn't count on it and we're not going to count on getting anything back.
Just another question on the whole AMR situation.
Did you guys have -- were you in any way in discussions or have an opportunity to talk about GTF on the 37 (sic)  re-engine? Or did that happen kind of totally outside your sphere of communication? Look it's a small industry.
Obviously we've been working with Boeing.
We've talked about this publicly in the past about the opportunity to re-engine the existing 737.
And I think again the problem we have with re-engining we've made it pretty clear is that they have an exclusive agreement with CFM.
And until we have a new aircraft with the Boeing company for the 737 we're probably not going to have an opportunity.
At the same time I think the A320 is a great aircraft.
It's going to compete very effectively against the 737 this re-engined 737.
Can you give us a sense Greg on what we should expect for E&amp;D trajectory into '12 and '13? And at what point does the line start to bend at Pratt? Yes my crystal ball is a little cloudy.
And I think we've said before E&amp;D will probably peak at Pratt next year.
I'm loathe to give any kind of guidance on 2012.
I mean we're -- there's a lot of things that will happen between now and December when Louis stands up to give guidance.
But I think again the thought here is E&amp;D will peak next year probably start to go down '13 '14.
Then I was also just wondering on Carrier.
A couple of prior questions that Akhil hit it in the open.
But can you just be a little bit more specific Akhil on -- you gave us Transicold very specifically but how commercial equipment performed in the quarter? Not the orders but the actual performance and the U.S.
resi business? Globally Jeff the Commercial HVAC equipment was up high single digits and U.S.
residential was slightly up just kind of very low single-digit type of level.
I think geographically U.S.
Europe -- Asia was stronger than others but the U.S.
and Europe also grew for Commercial HVAC.
And can you give us some color on price realization in HVAC in particular in the U.S.? I think as you know Carrier announced a price increase in February.
That has been doing pretty well.
I think we also just recently last week announced a second price increase up to 6% on both residential and commercial products.
That should go into effect over the next 75 days or so.
So overall still the net number for the year that we are expecting is still about $100 million negative for Carrier as the gross commodity costs are probably negative $200 million offset by about $100 million of price realization.
And just finally same thing on Otis.
You mentioned price is still tough on new equipment.
Any change though in kind of the level of pricing? Is it the same? Is it worse? Is it moderating? Are there any geographic differences that stand out? Yes I think the market especially in the U.S.
and Europe remains tough.
Obviously with the dearth of new commercial construction in both the U.S.
and Europe there's a lot -- not that much new work going on so the bidding is tough.
At the same time we've recently raised prices in China on new equipment to compensate for the higher commodity costs especially of some of these rare earth metals that we've seen.
So that happened I think July 1 we've raised prices.
So again Carrier's got this $100 million kind of net commodity.
I think Otis will probably have $60 million or so of net commodity headwind for the year assuming we get good price realization in the back half of the year.
LLC</strong> On the aerospace aftermarket Greg I don't see Hamilton Sundstrand had a very good quarter.
I was wondering if you can give us some sort of clarity on what you think some of the underlying trends might be there and whether they're sustainable even though you're coming up against tougher comps in the second half.
I think Rob that we had a very good first half.
And I would say it's a little bit ahead of our expectation.
We talked at Hamilton for the full year kind of 10% to 12% growth in spares for the year obviously a good start to the year.
But to your point compares get very difficult in the back half of the year not just in Hamilton but it's Pratt as well.
But I think the good news is that even with these high oil prices airlines are still making money globally and they're still spending money on maintenance and they're still filling up seats.
So could -- I think could aftermarket be a little bit better than what we expected? I think so.
Again inventory we know is low out there both in the engine shops and in the repair shops.
So I think there are still some opportunity for a little bit better aftermarket both at Pratt and in Hamilton than what we had originally expected.
LLC</strong> You're not expecting any sort of underlying trends to deteriorate in the second half? It's just a mathematical calculation? Yes it's just simply math.
If you think about spares at Pratt in the back half of the year we're up 30% and we're up for the first half north of 30% now.
So it's kind of tough to grow another 30% off of the 30% from last year.
And again oil is always out there as a concern to hold down or to dampen demand in the back half.
Not that we're predicting a big slowdown.
I think we're going to see a continuation of the run rates that we've seen in the first half in the back half of the year.
LLC</strong> And then secondly at Pratt I was wondering if you could comment on how say business jets aftermarket spares have gone in the quarter and you're thinking of the future here.
And similarly on the aftermarket have you seen some of these heavier maintenance checks coming through on the engines? Yes to both.
I think on the Pratt Canada side the business jet spares overall were up sort of mid-teens excluding FX.
And it's consistent with what you are seeing on the takeoffs and the regionals particularly have also been doing very well.
So I think based on that the Pratt spares Canada spares were also in line with expectations.
And to your second point I think that the answer is yes.
Inc.</strong> Going back to M&amp;A you've taken -- you've put Bill Brown in charge of the group.
It seems like you're putting a lot of energy into that area.
Yet we've had a placeholder that is small compared to history.
And could you talk about what you're trying to do there? Should we expect the numbers for M&amp;A or your placeholder for M&amp;A to go up substantially in the future given an increased emphasis on the group? Yes I think Doug you make a very valid point.
The fact is the $1.5 billion placeholder we've put in place for this year is before Louis put Bill in charge of the group.
We're going to stay disciplined in the M&amp;A side but I think we have an appetite to do more.
And while it's easy to buy back shares and not as easy to buy companies we think we can create value out there with the M&amp;A agenda.
We've got 6 great global franchises we've got opportunities around the road to do things.
And just stay tuned.
I think we've got more to come and probably a stepped up rate of M&amp;A spend too during the next couple of years.
Inc.</strong> Okay so making this into a higher profile unit which it seems like you've definitely done here that is consistent with a much stronger focus going forward? Yes I think -- and you're going to see us put our balance sheet to work you're going to see us put more cash to work on the M&amp;A side.
And that's where I think a big piece of growth is going to come from over the next few years.
It's going to come from the M&amp;A.
Again commercial construction is going to be slow residential slow in the U.S.
But we've got a lot of cash and a lot of capabilities on the M&amp;A side.
I think that's what -- what Louis saw in putting Bill in that role is that we needed a bigger focus and a better focus and I think Bill is doing exactly that.
It just takes time.
Inc.</strong> And then on Fire &amp; Security the top line growth you had seems to be a little bit less than you expected.
When you look forward and you're talking about this picking up in the back half of the year but what should we expect longer term? Should we expect growth rates to move up more toward high single digits? And if so what's going to drive that? I think obviously first half organic sales growth and even full year we've taken the target down from 6% to about 4%.
So a little disappointed in the rate of growth.
And there's been a couple of issues geographically.
Akhil talked about the U.K.
I think what's important as you look at the backlog it's up about 15% year-over-year.
So this back half sales growth looks to be in backlog and I think again we're getting momentum out there.
But you've got to remember a big piece of what Fire &amp; Security does in the service and install business is directly related to commercial construction activity right? And so to the extent that there's a dearth of commercial construction activity you're also going to see kind of slowish growth here.
So it will come back.
I think commercial construction will come back.
We've started to see signs of that at Otis.
But it may take a little longer than what we have thought.
But at least for the back half of the year confident in the sales forecast based on the backlogs that we have.
Inc.</strong> But you're seeing the growth at Otis and you're not yet seeing it here.
Is that related to geography or longer lead times at Otis? I think it's really geography.
If you think about where F&amp;S is particularly strong it's the U.K.
and it's continental Europe.
And those are -- and North America commercial construction.
Those are the same places where Otis is not seeing big new equipment growth.
In the quarter Otis grew new equipment orders I think 15%.
But Europe and the U.S.
were not stellar in that regard if you back out Russia.
So it's really the geography that F&amp;S suffers from today.
Australia is doing very well.
Again with the economy down they're doing well.
Commercial construction is picking up.
And F&amp;S is doing well in that geography.
They're doing well in Asia.
But unfortunately the majority of their business is in Europe and North America.
Those are the markets that continue to suffer.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Inc.</strong> Just a follow-up on couple of things.
One is you're usually very conservative in thinking about your financial planning.
So this change in R&amp;D at Pratt does this mean that there's been additional opportunities? Or are there some other challenges that you've come across in the process? I don't think that there's other challenges.
I mean the real issue when we started out the year the timing of the neo still looked to be entering the service probably 2016.
Obviously there's pressure from Airbus to move it up.
We talked about maybe late 2015 now.
And it's just the recognition that we have to get these programs underway.
We're at peak spend right now on CSeries and it's just you've got a lot of resources.
And I think the Pratt guys are doing the right thing.
They're spending more money sooner to try and make sure that we reduce the risks as we go forward in the development program.
So that's why I think you're seeing this greater spend now.
It would all give us a benefit albeit maybe not next year but it'll -- soon or the year after.
Inc.</strong> No I get it.
In other words really way to think about it is you're not finding -- you're pushing the envelope on risk now and you're not finding anything? Yes it's about risk mitigation today.
And I think again with all the bench testing and all of the rig testing that they've done to -- we call it TRL technology readiness level 6 we're there on all of our technologies.
And spending on that is not cheap but it's a lot cheaper than spending it when you're developing the engine and find a failure on a development test bed.
So yes I think they're doing the right thing.
They're spending the money.
And quite frankly we can afford in the guidance here.
So while -- we're taking it up a little bit.
We're doing the right thing long term for the business by investing here.
Inc.</strong> And then the second thing.
Again I'd say F&amp;S probably has been of all the businesses the most challenging or the one that's not quite met your expectations.
Is there a need to do some further reshaping of the way the business is focused to improve where you'd like to take it? I'll tell you we've done 61 deals over the last 7 years to pull together the Fire &amp; Security business.
So we think we've got a very solid quarter of business both on the fire products electronic security products and the service and install business.
There's always opportunity I think to take a look at the portfolio that you've assembled just like we've done at Carrier and call out those that don't make a lot of sense that don't have the same growth attributes that the rest of the business does.
So Scott and team are focused on that.
They're really working with Bill I think on that agenda.
So there's opportunities both in M&amp;A and I would tell you in disposition.
And I think you'll hear a lot more about that as we go throughout the year and especially in December when Louis gets up and talks about next year.
And Howard maybe it's a little bit of pride of authorship here for me but I mean we've taken 4% ROA businesses and moved them to north of 12%.
So that's not something we feel too badly about I think right? And there is opportunity to do more.
But certainly 15% next year will be a great target.
And once we get there there is room to do more.
Inc.</strong> Though I know we've had this discussion a bunch I appreciate that Akhil.
And then just the last thing is the restructuring frankly is very modest relative to the size of the company and the various business units.
I mean what -- when you sort of look at what you're doing now today Greg in terms of the targets for improving performance what are the sort of actions you're finding are most effective? Obviously as we take out and consolidate back office functions those things have the highest payback.
And you talk about modest restructuring.
I think we've done about $1.7 billion of restructuring here last couple of years.
And although we're only doing $200 million this year I would tell you that the businesses have identified well more than $200 million of potential things to do.
So there's always an appetite to do more restructuring to take out structural costs and to get more efficient.
And the $200 million placeholder is that that I think if gains come in higher than $200 million you might see us take that up.
The key is gains will lead to restructuring for the year.
We've tried to maintain that discipline to go back to it for the last couple of years.
We've spent in excess.
But we've done enough.
There's always more to do but we always have our eye on what's going to make sense from a productivity standpoint in the long term.
LLC</strong> Yes first a tactical question.
Given that we slipped some of these Canadian helicopters into the third quarter maybe give us a little help on the pattern we should look for in Q3 and Q4? Well as Greg said I think we're looking for somewhere in the 2 to 3 Canadian Maritime for the third quarter and then the remaining in the fourth.
We're still looking at about 6 for the year.
Did that help? LLC</strong> Yes.
I mean just in terms of the earnings should we therefore look for...
I think we -- look as you know Cai we're not going to give quarterly guidance for Sikorsky.
But I think overall we still feel very good about their $100 million.
Second quarter was a good $30 million increase year-over-year in earnings.
And as we look ahead aftermarket is going to grow even at a faster rate and I think we get some additional benefits on the military side from cost reductions.
So I think those 2 components will help offset incremental loss from the Canadian Maritime and we still feel very good about being able to get the $100 million.
Yes Cai.
I'd also add we've talked a lot about the Canadian Maritime and the financial impact or the losses associated with the deliveries.
I think that's all well known.
I think the key here is we're developing the world's most capable maritime helicopter and we had great reception over the Paris Air Show from everybody from the foreign governments that were looking at this thing.
And like any developing program there's going to be fits and starts and trouble delivering a couple of these early this year.
Again I think that'll all be behind us soon.
We recognized in the forecast the fact that Sikorsky has got to deliver 6 of these this year.
It's going to cost them I don't know $70 million $75 million in earnings.
And the base business at Sikorsky is doing phenomenally well.
I think you back out these development helicopters you'll see a business that's probably going to do 14%.
But the fact of the matter is we've got to deliver these helicopters.
They're going to cost a lot but we're going to have a great great aircraft when this is all done.
LLC</strong> Terrific.
And then I guess a bigger question obviously I guess in one respect good news that American is looking at the neo and I guess you're in the hunt.
Bad news given that Boeing is deciding to re-engine the 737 and therefore pushing out the new single-aisle which would have been the big opportunity for you while it's not your call do -- you obviously must be talking closely to Boeing do you have any sense as to when the new single-aisle might happen given this turn of events? I think obviously to your point we have been working closely with Boeing on the opportunity to re-engine.
I think again it's -- the better outcome we always said for Boeing is a new airplane with the GTF engine on it.
We just don't have the opportunity as you know contractually with Boeing to offer a re-engine on this -- on the current 737.
When Boeing is going to launch a new aircraft? I think time will tell.
I think to the extent that the A320 outperforms the 737 with our GTF engine that just puts more and more pressure.
And again the GTF is out there today.
We're flying that thing.
We've got hours on it.
We know it works.
We're going to have a very very competitive aircraft with the A320neo with this engine on it.
And if anything hopefully Boeing will move up its decision to build the new aircraft.
But that's really a question for Mr.
McNerney and Mr.
Albaugh.
LLC</strong> Okay and our last one.
Your military engine deliveries 44 up from 30 in the first quarter.
Where did the big uptick come? And I've been looking for that to be off 15% to 20%.
Is that still the right range for the year? Sorry Cai.
Repeat that again? LLC</strong> The military engine deliveries were 44 in the quarter up from 30 in the first quarter.
Where did the uptick come from? And is that in line with looking for those deliveries to be off 15% to 20% this year? It is.
I think it's -- the delivery increases came from all categories.
I think the F-119s were a little up F-117s were a little up and also your F100s.
But I think it's all in line.
First quarter was in line but full year is in line with what we had said earlier.
My first question I guess was on what you're seeing and what your expectations are for your construction-related businesses in China because I guess you've got very good order growth in Q2.
Obviously if we look at things like construction machinery orders and shipments in China those have been down double digit year-on-year the last 2 or 3 months.
So potentially some -- that's a lead in some respects for some of your equipment going into building.
So can you sort of clarify how you see that market over the next sort of 6 to 12 months? Julian I think you've got to look at the various segments in which we participate in China.
It's really on the building side as opposed to on the machinery and equipment side.
And the biggest single driver for growth in China is going to be social housing.
I think year-to-date they've started about 5 million new social housing units.
They expect to build about 10 million for the year and do that for the next 5 years and I think that's driving growth.
You also see at the provincial level still big investments in commercial real estate development.
It may be slow on the east.
But in the west it's not that way.
So again people need a place to live.
We continue to see this big trend in urbanization.
We continue to see that as the driving macro force in China that's going to benefit our businesses.
A little different than the machinery and equipment segment because these people need a place to live.
Obviously it's going to slow down.
I think China the growth rate that we saw in this quarter was 30% or nearly 30% at Otis and over 20% overall for our businesses is not sustainable.
But I still think this is a country that's going to grow at least high single digits over the next few years and we're going to get more than our fair share there.
I wanted to go back to the Beijing escalator accident.
The story continues to sort of stay in the Beijing newspapers and I wondered if you could just talk a bit more about the extent to which this is -- is the investigation and the sort of pause of using Otis restricted just to Beijing and just to escalators? Or is it countrywide Otis-wide? And yesterday or the day before there were some comments about perhaps doing the same thing in Shanghai.
And how you see this progressing to sort of restore the normal good relations that Otis has China-wide? Well again it was a tragic accident Joe.
We're obviously working closely with the authorities in Beijing.
So far the suspension of Otis has been related to escalators and has been really related to the Beijing area.
We haven't seen this spread countrywide.
As I said I think we ship about 6 800 escalators in China annually.
Not a huge huge market for us.
And again as we get to root cause working with the folks in Beijing I think we'll quickly get to the point where people are comfortable that this was not a basic quality concern from an Otis standpoint.
We think it's probably a sub-tier supplier that supplied some substandard parts.
We're working through that.
We'll figure it out.
I think right now there's again less than 200 of these escalator models out there.
We inspected I think more than 20% as of yesterday.
We'll get through those in the next couple of weeks.
We'll get all these back in great working order and we'll recover the lost business.
But clearly it's an unfortunate incident.
These things happen.
But the key is how we recover and how we respond to this.
And I think the Otis folks in China have done a great job.
You never like to hear about these things though.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies Third Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Akhil Johri Vice President Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTC's home page at www.utc.com.
The company reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTC's SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statement.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes Okay.
Thank you Gevan and good morning everyone.
As you guys saw in the press release this morning another solid quarter.
6% organic sales growth and orders generally in line with expectations despite an uneven macroeconomic environment.
Earnings per share were $1.47 in the quarter and that's up 13% and free cash flow was robust at 132% of net income.
There's a lot of uncertainty and things to worry about in the world economy and things like continued high unemployment in the U.S.
and Europe a weak U.S.
housing sector the banking crisis in Europe the political impasse in D.C.
to name just a few.
But importantly order rates across most of our businesses remain generally in line with our expectation for the year sustained by continued strength in emerging markets and a resilient commercial aerospace aftermarket.
The developed economies have certainly slowed a bit over the past few months and commercial construction markets remain particularly weak in the U.S.
and Europe.
But the economies in China India and Brazil while slowing slightly are still delivering growth rates well above developed economies.
Also airline traffic continues to hold up and capacity discipline is expected to result in another profitable year for the airlines.
In addition Boeing and Airbus holding a large backlogs have both announced increases in their build rates buoyed by emerging market demand and replacement of older less fuel-efficient fleets.
So uncertainty clearly but we've operated in this kind of uneven and uncertain economic environment before and we know how to respond.
With a slower macro growth outlook we're taking preemptive steps to position the business to grow earnings next year by taking out even more costs as we -- even as we continue to invest in growth areas and in bringing new technologies to market.
So we're increasing our restructuring estimate this year from $200 million previously to $300 million plus while keeping to our commitment of restructuring equal to onetime items for the year.
We still see sales for this year at around $58 billion that's up about 7% from 2010.
And with better than expected third quarter results and only one quarter to go we're once again increasing our EPS guidance.
We now expect 2011 EPS to be up 15% to $5.47 a share.
That's up from our previous guidance of $5.35 to $5.45.
The higher EPS outlook reflects benefits from lower interest costs lower taxes and higher profits at Sikorsky partially offset by lower profit expectations at Fire &amp; Security and around $0.05 of deal costs related to the pending Goodrich acquisition.
On Slide 2 now turning to third quarter results as I mentioned sales grew organically at 6%.
Carrier had another strong quarter with 9% organic growth driven largely by continued strength in the Transicold business and growth in emerging markets.
And Sikorsky grew 21% organically with higher aftermarket sales and more military aircraft shipments.
Earnings per share were $1.47 that's up 13%.
Restructuring expenses of $0.06 in the quarter were partially offset by $0.04 of net positive onetime items.
In comparison restructuring and onetime items in last year's third quarter was a charge of $0.09.
So excluding restructuring and onetime items in both third quarters earnings per share increased this year by 7%.
Lastly FX was a benefit of about $0.04 in the quarter.
Now just the usual reminder that we're going to talk to our segment results excluding restructuring and onetime items.
And on that basis the segment operating margins of 16.3% in the quarter was 10 basis points lower than last year.
These benefits from cost reduction and operating leverage from higher sales across the businesses were more than offset by higher E&amp;D investments.
E&amp;D was higher by $62 million versus last year's third quarter.
All of that increase was at Pratt &amp; Whitney as they continued to develop 4 separate Geared Turbofan platforms.
As I mentioned earlier free cash flow in the quarter was 132% of net income.
That's great performance even as we contributed $156 million in cash to our domestic venture plans.
In addition we also contributed $450 million of stock to the plans this past quarter.
Even at the current low interest rates our domestic pension plans are now nearly 90% funded and we don't see the need to make additional contributions to our domestic pension plans through at least the end of next year.
With year-to-date free cash flow at 109% of net income we now expect free cash flow for the full year to exceed net income.
We spent $675 million on share repurchase in the quarter and this concludes our share buyback for the year with a total spend at $2.2 billion.
You'll recall that we decided to suspend share buyback for the next 12 months as a result of the Goodrich transaction.
Okay Slide 3.
As you can see from these order trends order trends are generally in line with expectations with the exception of some weakness at Fire &amp; Security.
Commercial aerospace aftermarket remains solid with Pratt &amp; Whitney's large commercial engine spare orders up 3% for the quarter and that's on top of 35% growth in the last year's third quarter.
Hamilton Sundstrand commercial spares were up 24%.
That's after 13% growth last year.
Carrier's U.S.
residential HVAC orders increased mid-single-digits in the quarter.
However we did see a shift in consumer buying patterns with more and more customers opting for lower featured lower efficiency products.
At Otis new equipment orders were up 12% at constant currency driven by emerging market growth.
And we continue to see strong growth in the emerging markets with a combined BRIC orders for the Commercial businesses up a strong 23% this quarter.
So despite a slowing world economy we saw another good quarter with strong organic sales growth solid earnings growth and robust cash flows all while we continued to invest in these game-changing technologies.
I'll come back in a minute to talk about the remainder of '11 and our outlook for 2012.
But for now let me turn it over to Akhil to take you to the business unit detail.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 4.
At Otis both sales and profits in the third quarter grew by 12% with operating margin of 23.7% in line with the prior year.
Foreign currency accounted for approximately 8 points of profit growth and 7 points of sales growth.
New equipment sales in the quarter were up 9% at constant currency led by strong growth in China and Russia.
Service sales were also up with continued growth in contractual maintenance and repair.
The positive impact in operating profit from higher sales volume and some real estate gains was partially offset by new equipment pricing and commodity headwind.
As Greg said new equipment orders increased 12% at constant currency with continued strong growth in emerging markets led by China.
Their orders were up over 30%.
Orders in North America were flat and were down low single-digit in Europe.
Otis closed the quarter with a strong new equipment backlog up 9% versus prior year at constant currency.
We remain confident in full year profit growth of about $225 million at Otis on high-single-digit sales growth.
On Slide 5 Carrier profits increased 13% on 8% higher sales.
Organic sales growth was 9%.
As expected Transicold's first half organic growth rate of about 50% has moderated to high teens.
Similar to the second quarter North America residential shipments were mixed with split system units up mid-teens and gas furnaces down mid-single digit.
Profit growth was driven by solid conversion on volume and continued good performance in our joint ventures partially offset by commodity headwind.
Carrier posted a record Q3 operating margin of 12.7% even as we saw a significant movement in the U.S.
Residential business towards low-margin entry-level units.
Carrier remains on track with our prior guidance of profit growth of about $325 million on 10% organic sales growth.
UTC Fire &amp; Security delivered profit growth of 8% in the quarter on 5% higher sales.
Organic sales were up 2%.
Product businesses were up high single-digit and service and install businesses were down low single-digit due to continuing softness in the U.K.
and Americas businesses.
Third quarter orders were flat year-over-year organically.
Backlog continues to be strong and is up approximately 15% organically both year-over-year and from the beginning of the year.
Operating profit in the quarter grew 3% at constant currency.
Benefits from higher overall volumes and a favorable litigation resolution were partially offset by continuing productivity challenges and a very soft market in the U.K.
With a slowdown in the order rates and continuing productivity issues we now expect full year sales at Fire &amp; Security to be up mid-single digits on 3% organic growth and operating profit to be up approximately $100 million instead of $150 million.
Turning to Aerospace on Slide 7.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney sales were up slightly from the third quarter last year.
Sales from higher aftermarket and increased large commercial engine deliveries were partially offset as expected by fewer military engine deliveries lower Rocketdyne and power system sales and unfavorable currency at Pratt Canada.
Large commercial engine spares sales were up about 10%.
Operating profit in the quarter was down 11%.
The benefits from net higher sales were more than offset by high E&amp;D and unfavorable currency at Pratt Canada.
These structuring savings offset higher pension costs.
Excluding E&amp;D operating margin was about flat.
We continue to expect Pratt's full year operating profit to be down around $100 million as we continue to invest in next-generation product platforms.
Hamilton Sundstrand posted another solid quarter with profit growth of 11% on 8% higher sales.
Sales growth continues to be led by the Aerospace aftermarket and industrials businesses.
Notably commercial spares were up more than 30% versus last year.
Aero OEM sales were flattish as commercial aero growth was offset by lower space and defense volumes.
Profit growth in the quarter reflects the benefit of higher aftermarket and industrial sales and lower E&amp;D partially offset by lower military vehicle sales and higher new program warranty costs.
Operating margin was up 60 basis points year-over-year to 18.7%.
As Greg said commercial spares orders increased 24% year-over-year with book to bill slightly above 1.
Industrial orders were up about 10% at constant currency.
Based on Hamilton Sundstrand's strong year-to-date performance we now expect operating profit for the full year to be up more than $100 million on high single-digit sales growth.
Turning to Sikorsky on Slide 9.
Operating profit increased 34% on 21% higher sales.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 73 large aircraft 9 more than the third quarter of 2010.
66 aircraft is on military platforms and 7 commercial.
There were no deliveries of Canadian Maritime Helicopters in the third quarter.
The contract requirement is for 4 additional aircraft in the fourth quarter but customer discussions indicate that need may be only for 2 or 3 more.
Sales growth in the quarter was driven by higher international military aircraft deliveries and increased aftermarket volumes.
Solid conversion on net higher sales resulted in margin expansion of 110 basis points to 12.1%.
Of note during the quarter Sikorsky delivered 3 S-70i aircraft to its launch customer in the Middle East.
These deliveries marked the first for Sikorsky's international variant of the BLACK HAWK.
For the full year at Sikorsky we now expect profit growth of approximately $125 million on sales growth of high single digits.
With that let me turn it over to Greg for wrap up.
Okay thanks Akhil.
So it was another good quarter.
We have strong organic sales growth earnings growth and cash flow all of that in the face of a slowing worldwide economy.
We're very confident in our increased EPS guidance of $5.47 and $58 billion of sales for the year.
That's up 15% earnings on 7% sales growth.
That's the kind of performance you come to expect from UTC.
As you know we've announced some transformational news recently.
First of all of course the largest acquisition in our history in fact one of the largest aerospace acquisitions ever Goodrich Corporation.
It's a strategic transaction that will boost UTC's position in the Aerospace Systems sector and will generate significant customer and share owner value.
As you know Goodrich products are complementary to UTC's and our combined technologies will provide more intelligent more electric and more integrated products that customers are increasingly looking for.
Also Goodrich has a stable and strong aftermarket with higher content on newer platforms similar to Hamilton Sundstrand.
We're bringing together 2 great companies.
As we said earlier we expect this deal to close in mid-2012 and we would expect it will be accretive to EPS in 2013.
Last week I'm sure you all saw we also announced agreements with Rolls Royce to acquire their share in the IAE joint venture as well as to partner on future engines for mid-size aircraft.
Most significantly utilizing Geared Turbofan technologies.
When this transaction closes we'll likely consolidate IAE which will result in incremental sales at Pratt &amp; Whitney in 2013 of over $1.5 billion representing the remaining 2/3 of IAE.
We also expect an operating profit benefit in 2013 of $75 million to $100 million which is largely Rolls Royce's 1/3 share of IAE's profits partially offset by the amortization of intangibles.
This deal will also streamline support for the A320 family of engines enable a smoother transition of V2500s to the GTF platform and provide significant long-term benefits to Pratt &amp; Whitney's aftermarket business from the increasing installed base.
The new partnership agreement with Rolls Royce is further validation of the game-changing GTF technologies.
In the meantime the GTF development programs at Pratt remain on track meeting all the key milestones and performance benefits of fuel efficiency noise and emissions.
Also you'll see -- you probably saw we announced 2 key organizational changes.
These changes will allow us to continue to drive growth and margin expansion on both the aerospace and commercial side of the business.
Our seasoned management team will build on the same agenda that's made us successful: portfolio transformation offering integrated systems and solution to our customers and continued cost reduction.
So we talked about our increased guidance this year and some transformational news but I'm sure what most of your are interested in of course is what about 2012? So let's look at 2012.
This is on now Slide 11.
As always a lot of puts and takes at this time of the year.
The outlook for some of our end markets certainly feels weaker today than just a few weeks back and we're certainly looking at tighter DOD budgets.
Although longer term we will benefit from being on the right platforms such as the JSF the 53K and the BLACK HAWK programs.
And international military markets still offer significant opportunities despite the DOD budget cuts.
Yields on 10-year corporates have come down.
Of course that puts pressure on our pension expense.
At a discount rate of 5% we'll see around $0.15 of headwind next year.
Not much we can do about interest rates but we have done the tough things in sunsetting the U.S.
pension plan.
So a little time and a small rise in interest rates this problem is going to go away.
It will be in the rearview mirror.
And we talked in the past about E&amp;D at Pratt peaking in 2012.
Again that will be a headwind for us next year.
Again more detail on that in December.
Also assuming a mid-2012 close the Goodrich transaction will be dilutive to earnings next year by about $0.30 to $0.40 from financing and other deal costs accounting conformity amortization of intangibles and restructuring costs.
Of course we expect this deal to be solidly accretive in 2013 and beyond as we start to realize the synergies and get some of the onetime costs behind us.
On FX that remains a big unknown.
Just within the past few weeks the U.S.
dollar has strengthened against most currencies.
The euro as you know went from $1.45 in late August to $1.32 in early October and now it's back at $1.38.
Given this volatility we'll make a call on FX rates for 2012 as we get closer to our outlook meeting in December.
And of course you all know the impact FX can have on UTC earnings both positive and negative.
But really too early to make a call.
Of course we know how to operate in uncertain times.
We're increasing restructuring in 2011 and this will generate additional savings in 2012 and our companies are better positioned than ever to grow earnings with a strong aftermarket significant presence in emerging market and high content in the growing Commercial Aerospace segment.
So in spite of all the headwinds the uncertain economic environment and the Goodrich-related dilution we still expect earnings growth in 2012.
As is our normal practice Louis will provide detailed guidance on 2012  at the December 15 Investor Meeting in New York.
So solid results year-to-date and we're confident on delivering our increased outlook of $5.47 a share 15% earnings growth on 7% sales growth.
We see a strong trend in emerging market orders even as developed markets have shown signs of weakness recently.
We've stepped up our cost reduction efforts and continue to drive margin expansion not just this year but into 2012 and beyond.
And as always we're committed to grow earnings even in a difficult environment.
We have a seasoned management team and we're focused on what we can control: that's cost and operational excellence.
So with that let's stop and open up the call for questions.
Gevan? [Operator Instructions] And first in line we have David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Greg you talked about ratcheting up restructuring this year.
Can you give us a sense any quantification of what kind of tailwind that would provide next year not only the additional restructuring you're doing this year but also the benefit of 2009 2010 restructuring.
Yes.
So again we're going to take up restructuring from $200 million to $300 million plus.
We've got some good news coming out on the tax line that we see.
We've got visibility to a gain on a disposition.
So restructuring equals gains for the year.
I think that's first and foremost.
As I think about next year we're going to see at least $200 million of tailwind from restructuring into 2011 -- I'm sorry into 2012.
We're going to do some additional restructuring at Sikorsky as we size the business for what's happening in the marketplace.
I think as you're always also looking along with Scott Buckhout at some additional reductions on the commercial side as they bring those 2 businesses together.
So there's lots of things to do and some of that's actually going to be good short-term payback.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up again thinking about next year I know FX is a moving target but I think for Pratt Canada that should be locked in at this point.
Can you talk about the headwind there? And then from a commodity standpoint given the moving copper and steel what kind of tailwind that could provide next year? David this is Akhil.
For Pratt Canada you're right most of it is locked in.
We expect about $50 million headwind next year as the Canadian dollar was still stronger than the U.S.
dollar versus what we had hedged before.
On the commodities we deliberately put it on a question mark column right now because the copper goes down to close to $3 then wants to start to go back up.
We'll see how it all shakes out and Louis will give a greater guidance more detail in December.
I think it's important to note though I mean commodities we have seen pricing is stuck on the Carrier side.
And we have moved prices up on Otis as well in response to some of these commodities.
So for the year although it's still going to be a headwind of about $150 million I think we've got about what? 50% of our copper locked in for next year already.
So again I think as these prices that Carrier announced they take effect October 1 those stick it shouldn't be a huge headwind.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last one on the interest expense line you had talked about first it was going to be relatively flat then $50 million lower.
It looks like it's going to be a lot lower now than 2010? Yes it is David.
And some of it if you'll recall we talked about having an issuance of about $1.5 billion early fourth quarter and now we are moving that out because we've cut back our share buyback our cash flow is coming in stronger than we expected.
So that's all good news.
And that's what we're reflecting in this increased guidance.
Next online we have Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research.
Just first on Goodrich Greg can you give us a little more granularity on the $0.30 to $0.40? Certainly applaud you for taking it all in and not ignoring it if you will but how much of it is actually kind of deal-type noise versus kind of true kind of economic restructuring? Well let me try and give you the pieces here as best that we can do it today.
And I just want to stress here that we're still -- these are preliminary numbers because there's some big moving pieces like on the accounting conformity side.
But you're going to pick up about half of your Goodrich earnings assuming a late June close.
Then you've got about $200 million of actual deal costs.
And that includes the integration teams.
So that's a cost -- most of that goes away in year 2.
You're probably down to $25 million or so of just continuing integration teams.
You've also got interest on the new debt which is about $200 million.
I think they've got about $70 million of interest on their old debt.
Accounting conformity we're guessing on a full year basis that will be about $300 million in the first year so a half year is $150 million.
But again that's -- remember excess over average is going to go away down there.
The preproduction E&amp;D is going to go away.
We still need to work through the details but let's say that's $150 million.
Intangible amortization is about $300 million.
$200 million of that's for inventory write-up.
We've got to write up their inventory amortize their inventory turns.
So that happens relatively quickly.
And then there's the customer intangibles another $100 million.
And that gets spread out over the next I don't know 10 or 15 years.
And of course you've got the equity issuance.
We've assumed in the math here you're going to do a $4 billion equity issuance about 50 million shares.
That costs about $0.15.
So those are all the pieces.
I think by the time we get to December with Louis we'll have a little better feel for that we'll have some of this stuff nailed down determine the timing of the debt and all that.
But kind of broadly where we are.
And are there any substantial deal costs with closing the IAE deal? Will that deal be modestly accretive post-closing or is it dilutive in 2012? No it should be modestly.
And I say modestly accretive.
The fact is we're not borrowing any money we're not using any bankers.
And I tell you issuing debt and using bankers is very expensive.
So we're not going to do that with the IAE transaction.
We're going to use foreign cash and we'll see just a little bit of good news at Pratt &amp; Whitney next year.
But again probably a mid-year close there and maybe just a $0.01 or so of accretion.
Okay.
And finally for me and I'll pass it on could you just speak to China demand kind of step back larger across all UTC? I mean obviously the Otis orders look pretty good.
It sounds like HVAC is decent.
Just the whole state of play there kind of the tensions in the country on potential of slowing demand versus the reality of the fact that there's still quite a bit of activity and how you see things playing out over say the next 2 to 4 quarters there? You know it's interesting.
We all read of course we saw the GDP slowed down all the way to 9.1% here.
We haven't really seen it.
I told the guys yesterday we haven't seen a stop sign or even a yield sign in terms of the growth.
We're continuing to make very good traction.
Otis orders were up like north of 30%.
I think Carrier was almost 20% up.
The only place where we've seen any sign of weakness was really at Fire &amp; Security and a little bit at our Sullair which is the Hamilton Industrial business that Compressor business and those are really infrastructure projects where we've seen a little bit of a slide to the right.
But in terms of the commercial construction the social housing and the effects of the urbanization trends those all continue apace.
So we feel very good really for the next year on China.
It will no doubt slow down if the world economy slows down but these macro trends that have existed for the last 10 years around urbanization continue.
All right? I mean the West is still growing if not on the East and we're participating in all those markets.
Our next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So maybe give us a little bit more color on Rolls.
I mean they talk of this deal adding USD $220 million of converted.
You talk of it adding what was it $80 million to $100 million in op profit.
Maybe walk us through the pieces there.
And is that number a full year number? Is it before amortization? How much is amortization? Again the deal here is a little bit of complex and it's unfortunately the accounting makes it even more so.
But if you think about this Cai we paid $1.5 billion for the collaboration rights associated with Pratt's -- or I'm sorry with Rolls' investment in IAE.
So we get that 33% and we're going to pay them $1.5 billion at close.
The second piece of the deal is we're going to pay flight hour payments over the next 15 years and in return for those flight hour payments we're going to get the intellectual property and the engine designs and the right to produce all of those parts that Rolls is currently producing.
All of that gets hung up on the balance sheet as an intangible that we'll build up and we'll amortize that over the life of the program.
So we'll see as I said very modest next year accretion of about $0.01.
The following year we get about 75 to 100.
Again that's all in after amortization.
So -- and it gets more and more accretive every year.
And again as you stop the engine deliveries on the V2500 in 2015 2016 it becomes even more accretive because then all you have is an aftermarket stream for the next 30 years.
So I think -- we paid a fair price but there's a greater return on this.
And it really is just about monetizing what's going to be a great aftermarket stream on the V.
Importantly I think what really set this deal apart from us is Rolls Royce has validated the GTF technology.
The fact is the next mid-size aircraft whatever that will be we're going to be in a partnership with Rolls and we're going to use the GTF as a baseline configuration.
And that of course is a big turnaround from where we were just a few years ago.
I think it's important -- I think the IAE joint venture our relationship with Rolls has certainly morphed over time.
It's much better today and I think this deal is just a further personification of that.
One of the benefits Cai is the smooth transition as Greg mentioned for moving the customers from the classic 320s today to these neos.
And I think that's another big positive to this whole transaction.
LLC Research Division</strong> Now clearly with the growth in the aftermarket annuity it's a great deal.
But maybe help us understand roughly how much is the amortization likely to be on an annual basis.
Is it straight line? Roughly how much is the cost of the OEM engines to Rolls? Those kind of questions so we get a sense of the leverage in the out years.
Cai I don't think we want to get into those details.
It was a private transaction and I can probably help you a little bit more afterwards but that's...
I'll tell you we're still of course working through all this with regulatory authorities too Cai.
I think as we get closer to the deal close and everything is done we'll have a better view of all this.
We still have to value all the intangibles.
But you can think about we're going to be building that intangible over 15 years and amortizing it out.
It'll build up.
So you're not going to see straight-line amortization.
But we can get you those details as we get closer to the deal close.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last one you talked about kind of issuing 50 million shares but really kind of going through your cash flow it would look like you could get away with less.
Tell us kind of what's the range in terms of the size of the equity offering and kind of flexibility you have if the stock price is a little lower as it is today.
As part of this whole transaction with the rating agencies we've modeled in the 25% equity issuance of some form be that a straight equity issuance or be it some combination of mandatory converts or equity.
The fact is we're not going to issue stock at $75 a share.
That's significantly undervalued.
That's why we didn't use stock in the pricing of the deal.
We're going to be opportunistic about this in terms of when we issue the equity and how much equity and what form that takes.
In terms of using foreign cash clearly if we can bring cash back from overseas if we see a change in the tax law that makes it more efficient it reduces the need for equity.
And If you think about it at the end of the deal we're going to have debt to cap is going to move from 32% to call it 48%.
That was the ratio that we agreed to with the rating agencies.
That's why I think Moody's reaffirmed our rating.
Why we continued to have the A1 P1 on the commercial paper.
Now if we bring cash back from overseas it reduces the amount of debt.
It will also proportionally reduce the amount of equity so that we can keep in line.
It's not dollar for dollar but it's just proportionate trying to keep that debt to equity.
What's really important though is if the law changes and we're able to tap into that foreign cash 60% of our cash is overseas.
It allows us to do a lot more investing here in the U.S.
Our next question comes from the line of Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You're -- on the Goodrich deal.
Obviously we recognize you're paying for technology but also for people.
Can you -- the concern of course is that people can walk out the door.
Can you talk about how you're handling the potential loss of talent with Goodrich given this 9-month period of uncertainty where obviously Goodrich talent is susceptible to being poached.
How are you and Goodrich management kind of help -- working together to kind of prevent that and keep people steady as she goes while we go through this kind of 9-month period of question mark? It's a great question Heidi and I think it's something that I know that Marshall Larsen and Elaine are working on.
We're going to have -- bring 2 great companies together as I said and we've got great people at both companies.
And the key here is to retain the great people in those businesses.
And I think again we're going to work -- I know Tom Bowler the HR guys are working with their HR folks to make sure that we've got the right incentives in place so that we don't lose the talent.
Elaine and Marshall are going through identifying what the new organizational structure is going to look like.
And the sooner we get this deal closed the easier that it's going to be.
And it's all really about the people.
Great technology but without the people it doesn't mean anything.
They've got a performance culture.
We've got a performance culture.
We're going to merge the 2 of them together.
Heidi the best example I gave to this question is Greg Hayes himself.
He came through an acquisition and look where he is at UTC.
So UTC offers great opportunities for people who perform.
Research Division</strong> But are you guys able to get in front of these guys and talk about retention guarantees or things that -- again obviously when we see large deals like that one of the worst things that we've seen commonly happen is the poaching of kind of the best talent during that period.
Heidi all I can tell you is we think UTC is a great place to work and I think -- it's Elaine and Marshall's job in the coming months to make sure we convince the Goodrich folks and the Hamilton folks that there's a great future here.
And look it's always a risk but it's certainly on the radar screen and we're working with people.
We can't do very much.
We just filed Hart-Scott-Rodino this past week we're just doing the regulatory filings.
But as much as we can we're reaching out to the people and making sure they know that they're an important part of the future of these great businesses.
Research Division</strong> Are you getting any color on whether this deal could potentially close sooner or can you make that case that it helps make sure that you retain more of the company if you could close sooner? Look it's really -- we just filed Hart-Scott so we'll see.
In 30 days we'll hear back from Justice and then we've got the European and Asian filings to do.
I think it's -- we're going to stick to the kind of June closing time frame here and if it's better -- sooner is better no doubt for many many reasons.
People being one of the big things.
But we'll work through this as quickly as we can.
Research Division</strong> And then one final question on it and it's just a nit but are there any terms and conditions in the deal concerning how Goodrich does kind of better or worse during this period? Because obviously management had kind of a high sense of how they were going to do.
You've done your best due diligence but if they don't do quite as well is there any repricing potential? No.
Look they're a public company.
They've got share owners that they've got to satisfy.
They've got a performance culture there as I said.
They're going to make their numbers that they've committed to.
We feel very confident in the forecasts that they showed us both for this year and the next.
And I think they'll release earnings here in the coming week or so and I think it'll probably be just about in line with what everybody expects.
Research Division</strong> And I think I know the answer to this question Greg but one last final on my part.
The CSeries is obviously -- we see what's happening in the news there.
Can you talk about what this means in terms of any additional headwind this might portend for GTF on the neo? Does R&amp;D change on that? I'm sorry Heidi.
Were you talking about the CSeries in terms of the schedule or...
Research Division</strong> Well just in terms of there may be a question as to its future obviously.
But I think that there was some leveraging that you were expecting to happen on what you were doing on CSeries that could translate into neo and that may not necessarily be intact.
Look they are different engines although they have the same essential core.
It's just scaled up from the CSeries to the neo.
But that's really the extent of the synergies in terms of the testing and in terms of the design.
So look we think the CSeries is still going to be successful.
We haven't seen a lot of orders recently but we still think long-term this is going to be a great airplane in its niche which is 105 to 130 seats.
It's fuel efficient it's got great technology and it's going to be successful.
And really there -- it's going to be out there.
We're on time with the engine.
We expect to -- I think to have it certified by the end of next year for entry into service in 2013 still.
So we're still going full speed ahead.
Our next question comes from the line of Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about what the order trends were in the Transcold business on the container and the reefer side? Sure.
Shannon I think the truck trailer side has seen some reduction in orders which is not surprising.
I think some of the fleets large fleets in the U.S booked big orders early in the year and have now slowed down.
So we've seen significant reduction in the North America truck trailer orders on a year-over-year basis although year-to-date still very strong.
At Europe truck trailers slightly down year-over-year as well although containers continued to remain very strong and we're almost 2x what the orders were last year in the third quarter.
Now compares there are likely to get tougher in Q4 but so far so good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe a little bit more about what's going on at Fire &amp; Security and also what you kind of hope to accomplish with the consolidation of Fire &amp; Security and Carrier? The combo with Carrier and Fire &amp; Security is going to create an $18 billion business.
It's going to be headed up by Geraud.
I think the key for that combination was really this focus on building controls.
You guys will recall the IBS integrated building system strategy that Louis has been talking about for a couple of years? This is really the endgame of that strategy how it's going to play out.
We've created a Controls business under Mark Berry I believe at Carrier -- or what are we calling it? The Climate Controls &amp; Security Systems CCSS.
And I think that the controls is the linchpin to this whole thing.
At the same time we're going to run the playbook that we've run at Carrier for the last 3 years.
There's going to be portfolio transformation opportunities there's going to be cost synergies and it's going to be a great business on a consolidated basis.
I mean 2 very good businesses and we put them together.
Importantly we're still on track I think for the margin targets that Louis laid out.
It was 12% for Carrier and 15% for F&amp;S.
We're still going to get there next year on a consolidated basis.
Research Division</strong> I mean kind of looks like Carrier is running ahead and Fire &amp; Security behind.
I mean is it fair to say that the consolidated comes a little bit more from Carrier beating and Fire &amp; Security missing? Look I think -- we have an opportunity next year for F&amp;S to get to the 15% on a standalone basis.
Part of that was work through portfolio rationalization.
Part of it is also from a recovery in some of our markets.
If you think about the $50 million drop we've just taken in the guidance at F&amp;S really the key there was our market in the U.K.
I think that business is down earnings about $60 million year-over-year.
We've seen some big market issues as the government in the U.K.
has contracted spending.
We've seen some margin we've seen some productivity issues.
That's really the problem.
I think again we'll get that issue behind us.
Once we do that and we focus on some of the portfolio transformation issues at F&amp;S in terms of culling out some of the underperformers we still feel confident we can get to the 15% on F&amp;S.
Research Division</strong> And final one is transforming that portfolio going to be some additional divestitures or I mean -- or is there going to be an acquisition component to this given your desire to build more into the building automation side of things? I think yes to both sides.
I think obviously there's some opportunities there to cull the portfolio at F&amp;S.
Geraud and team have just started working with Scott and his team on that.
I think they've got some ideas already.
We'll hear more about that in the coming months.
But also Mark Berry's Controls business is an opportunity for acquisition over the medium term here.
So again I think it's both things we'll be doing.
Our next question comes from Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Greg I was wondering if you could talk about the Aerospace aftermarket.
Clearly contrasting results on the orders between Sundstrand and Pratt.
I was wondering if you talk about what the underlying drivers are here and whether it is just comps year-on-year? Well comps is a big thing.
Pratt was up 35% in orders last year in the third quarter up 3% this year.
Hamilton was up I think 13% last year up 24% this year.
If you dissect the Hamilton orders though what you see is that the Parts business kind of that ongoing recurring spare parts was up about 10%.
So pretty -- not nearly the robust 24% that we talk about.
It was really provisioning on 787 that drove the order growth at Hamilton.
And again this is the long-awaited payback for that big investment we made in the 787.
And that's going to drive growth at Hamilton next year as well.
This is really just the start of the provisioning cycle on the 787.
LLC Research Division</strong> And do you expect the sort of numbers between these 2 divisions to maybe converge going forward because they are so big at the moment? Unfortunately I think the businesses are just fundamentally different.
Hamilton is on every platform out there and they -- obviously as you see the new aircraft come to market they're going to see provisioning orders they're going to see parts for every aircraft commercial aircraft out there.
Pratt is a little bit more limited.
I'm mean you'll see growth obviously from the V2500 fleet.
You got the 4000s out there you got some 2000s.
But you would expect I think stronger growth in the aftermarket at Hamilton in the coming years as opposed to Pratt.
We'll start to see again the V2500 pick up even more stronger now that we've got the Rolls Royce share and then the GTF at the end of this decade will pick up significantly.
The other thing to keep in mind is Pratt spares are also driven by the cycle time on the engines and when they come in for overhauls.
I think that does drive the timing of the spares a little differently based on the profile of the engines coming in for repair work.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the industrial side Greg it does look like some of your shorter cycle industries have weakened on the order front in the third quarter.
Do you expect this deteriorating trend to continue into the fourth quarter? Actually if you think about it orders at the industrial businesses in the third quarter I think were up about 11% at constant currency.
Sullair was up 8%.
I think Sundyne was up strongly and Milton Roy was up nicely.
So all of the businesses on the industrial side of Hamilton were good.
On the commercial side of the business I think you're going to see again fairly decent order trends from the emerging markets.
The U.S.
we're not seeing anything here right? And on the commercial construction side.
Europe nothing much on the commercial construction side in the Euro zone.
We are seeing strong growth of course from Russia Poland and those markets but Europe not much.
But again all kind of in line with what we expected for the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> To go back to something you talked about Greg earlier in terms of repositioning and sort of a focus.
You've done 2 large deals in a short order of time and you've hinted at some divestitures.
Is this just going to be a different effort at reshaping United Technologies' portfolio? These deals although they got announced within a couple of weeks ago really have been in the works for well over a year.
And I think Louis and the rest of the senior management team we've been looking at the entire portfolio here and this is really just part of the overall strategy at UTC which we want to have growth businesses in growth markets.
And I think -- and we're positioning the company to be exactly that.
And this portfolio analysis is not a onetime event.
It's something that we're going to continue to do continue to look at opportunities both on the acquisition and the divestitures side to better position UTC for long-term growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's what I gather.
And hence also the management changes in terms of focus and emphasis.
I guess that's all part of it.
It is indeed.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 small related items.
One is can you talk a little bit about the Maritime Patrol Helicopter and sort of what are the issues? I mean this has been an ongoing challenge to get it right.
I mean they -- frankly.
And then just one other item if you can answer that.
You had a small -- what's the size of the real estate gain at Otis? Real estate gain at Otis was how much? About $15 million Howard the real estate gains at Otis.
So about a $0.01.
About a $0.01.
As far as the CMH look we have an agreement with the Canadian government we were to deliver 6 interim configuration aircraft this year.
The final configuration aircraft will be delivered starting at the middle of next year.
We've had some issues with some software glitches.
We've had some other issues but the helicopters are ready to be delivered.
I think it's just a question of aligning the customer requirements right now.
And I know Jeff and the team have been working with our friends on this for quite some time.
And we have the helicopters.
They're being built down in Stratford they're ready to ship.
It's just a question of what the customer needs at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I mean I still don't understand what that means.
Is that -- I mean are we going to see larger losses because of the further delays? And that's the good news is we're going to get them behind us this year and next year more profitability? No.
I think in fact we lose I don't know $10 million $12 million a copy on these helicopters and that's not really changing in terms of the timing of the deliveries.
You're still going to see headwind next year and into '13 as you deliver the remainder of the 28 helicopters.
Our next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question on your commercial businesses.
I mean you mentioned that in Carrier you'd seen some trading down.
I just wondered more broadly obviously if the volume outlook in commercial for low level it's managing to deteriorate further in developed economies? You mentioned pricing earlier but if you see volumes weakening and you see a mix shift are you worried that pricing generally -- when you look at what your competitors are saying and doing are you worried that pricing generally may start to moderate in the coming months as you see volumes soften and commodities have leveled out? To be clear I don't think we expect to see volumes softening any more than they already are.
If you think about Carrier's Residential business here in the U.S.
I think the total market for split systems is about 4.7.
It's been kind of banging around the bottom there for the last 2 or 3 years.
We haven't really seen any growth.
At the same time as commodities have increased I think we have seen some pricing traction.
But the real issue there in the business is voice to consumer sentiment.
Last year we had stimulus-related benefits there were rebates that allowed customers to trade up to higher efficiency units.
The stimulus is gone those tax credits are gone.
So because of the consumer sentiment here in the U.S.
consumers are only buying what they need to buy and they're buying entry-level lower-featured products.
And so think about the business in the U.S.
I think we were up about 8% in the quarter in terms of units but total sales were flat because again you've traded down.
So now 75% of what we're selling is entry-level series 13.
So look it's hard to imagine it's going to get any worse than this but there are still 93 million or 94 million air conditioners out there in service today that have to be replaced.
There's not much going on in the housing market we don't expect growth in the housing.
At the same time we've got a good position in terms of our cost.
We continue to take cost out of the business continue to drive margins in that business.
And when the market recovers and it will we're going to be well positioned to get great operating leverage there.
Research Division</strong> And then if I'm comparing the new equipment orders organically for Otis and Commercial HVAC Otis has been outgrowing the HVAC orders for the last sort of 6 months or so.
Do you think that's sustainable for any particular reason in terms of geographic weighting or new products or anything else? Yes.
It's all about China.
You think about where Otis is positioned in China.
They saw 30% orders growth right there.
Carrier saw about just under 20% growth in orders.
And I think it -- the market position that Otis has is just phenomenal.
We've got about just north of I think 22% 23% market share.
We go to market in 4 different price points in the China market and they've got a very strong team in place in China.
Carrier good team.
They've got good market position.
But I think again just because of the weighting and the size of the Otis China business it's going to drive higher growth there.
And then one other factor Julian is that in China Otis benefits from social housing which is more of residential type of air conditioning.
So like-for-like while Otis benefits from the residential sort of social housing Carrier does not.
So I think that is a part of the difference as well.
Research Division</strong> And then just one final one.
You mentioned some of the restructuring going into Sikorsky.
On the commercial side though both Bell this morning and Eurocopter last month have sounded very positive about what's going on there.
So could you just give an update on the different trends in Sikorsky? Again I think what we're seeing on the military side BLACK HAWK production has probably peaked this year and it will probably stay about flat into next year.
What we are seeing growth on the military is on the international side.
I think we shipped 3 of -- the first 3 S-70i's out of Mielec this quarter in fact.
On the commercial side order trends have not been great.
Right now again we're transitioning from the S-76C++ to the 76D.
I think we'll have that aircraft certified mid-year next year we'd expect orders to pick up.
But in the interim I think we'll be done delivering S-76s here at the end of the year.
S-92 continues to sell well for the oil and gas fleet.
And again I think it will be a good story but it's not going to be a great high-growth story for next year.
Our next question comes from the line of Terry Darling with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's early and we're not going to steal any thunder from December here but just wondering if you could tie up all the changes to the 2012 puts and takes landscape and give us a sense whether you think 10% plus excluding Goodrich and IAE is still a reasonable place to be thinking at this point? Look we're targeting 10% earnings growth Terry for the businesses.
I think again that the 2 big question marks we have right now really are around FX and pension and what happens there.
But the base businesses I think we're going to continue to push them to get towards 10%.
We're doing the restructuring now.
We're doing whatever we can to try and make sure that that happens.
You've got these big kind of unknowns though around FX and what's going on in terms of the developed economies and the macro environment.
I would tell you x Goodrich dilution next year we're going to outperform the peers.
We've taken the hard action we've done what we needed to do on the pension side.
We've rightsized the business.
And so I think again you'll be happy I think with the guidance that Louis provides in what is a very tough economic environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It's helpful.
And then in terms of you made a comment -- we talked a lot about different specifics.
I just want to make sure we're clear on your earlier comment that just in the last few weeks you've seen some incremental weakness in end markets.
Are you talking about sort of the truck markets? Can you just be clear with us in terms of which end markets you're really thinking of in that particular comment? I think as I look at the Carrier and the Residential business in the U.S.
and we had a very strong start to the third quarter.
I think July was good and then August things started to slow down and even a little further in September.
Truck trailer is the same kind of phenomenon.
There was a lot of early ordering and so we've seen orders pull back on the truck trailer in the North American market.
And I think again as we're seeing consumer sentiment in U.S.
and in Europe given the banking crisis in Europe consumers are pulling back and not spending.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on the DOD spending outlook for 2012 has anything changed with your thinking there? No I think it's all about as we had expected.
I think we'll wait and see what the super committee comes up with here.
We're hopeful that the folks in Washington are going to be able to come together and come up with a reasonable plan with the deficit and hold the defense spending in line.
The worst thing that could happen is stalemate of course in the super committee because the DOD budget cuts would be huge.
And I don't think anybody wants that to happen.
I don't think anybody is going to let that happen.
Research Division</strong> It sounded like you're a little more optimistic on the international sales defense sales next year or am I reading too much into that? No I think it's just a continuation of what Jeff's been talking about for the last couple of years.
We've positioned the business to have a great product offering that's the BLACK HAWK at a low-cost manufacturing location.
And it continues to get traction.
There's orders out there for Turkey there's orders out there for Singapore for Saudi.
I think there's lots of opportunities.
Our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Back to the Rolls agreement for a second.
Does the relationship essentially between you 2 remain stale until there's actually a platform to pursue? Or is Rolls going to start to share in the core R&amp;D that you'd have ongoing for the next gen of the GTF? I think -- they'll continue to be a part of the IAE joint venture because they're going to continue to supply their share of the engine for some period of time until it transitions to us.
In terms of investment in the next generation platform we're both going to go down the path of making sure we've got the best possible technology when that platform becomes visible.
We're going to be investing of course in the gear; they're going to be investing in other important parts of the engine.
So when the thing does come together we both have the latest and best technology to offer.
Research Division</strong> Are you pursuing dual architectures or similar architectures with split responsibility? No I think -- it's going to be a GTF architecture.
This is not going to be a 3-spool engine.
This is going to be GTF and it's going to be a single platform.
Research Division</strong> So they are sharing in the core R&amp;D starting as soon as this agreement is done.
Well as soon as we have visibility to what the next aircraft is going to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Sikorsky the guidance of $25 million increase in EBIT is that from Akhil's comment sounded like potentially a couple of CHPs were shifting out.
Is that essentially what's causing that or is it better performance as well? And I guess are you expecting the same number of CHPs or has that number slipped out? No I think Myles you're exactly right.
It is the shifting of the 2 CMHPs if you will.
That's what we have taken into account in our forecast here.
Their operating performance even without that is pretty good as is.
So I think they are tracking well towards delivering on the margin expansion and the growth and the profit that we were expecting.
This shift will probably not impact 2012 as such.
It may move to 2013 in terms of the deliveries that we miss if any this year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And the last one.
Hamilton's spare book to bill is it below 1? Slightly above 1.
Slightly above.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups here.
Just on Fire &amp; Security between productivity and demand which has the bigger impact on your numbers? And could you just speak a bit more specifically if possible about what you're referring to with productivity? Is there one facility that's underperforming in the U.K.
et cetera? If you think about the $50 million drop about half of that is actually from lower volumes.
Orders were essentially flat here in Q3.
We had expected I think 5% or so organic growth for the year.
We're not going to see that.
So that's the biggest piece of this.
You've also got a little bit of bad news on FX versus our last look.
And then you've got the U.K.
issue.
I'll say the productivity issue is not just U.K.
It's really the field organization where we had expected significant productivity benefits from all of the restructuring actions.
We just haven't seen any -- the traction we had expected to see in the field in the Installation and Service businesses.
And the U.K.
market is tough.
We've recognized that for the year.
It's worse than what we had expected.
We're focused on it.
These operational issues they happen.
We know how to fix these things.
I think that's what Geraud and Scott and the team are focused on right now is fixing the field productivity issues and fixing the issues that we've got in terms of performance because it happens.
It's unfortunate.
But we're on top of it and we're going to get it fixed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In both of these businesses that are coming together Carrier and F&amp;S you're looking at -- I'm sure there's going to be some integration from a top-level standpoint in terms of overhead.
At the same time you're looking at divestitures from within -- it seems to me at least within both businesses certainly within Carrier still working on the International Residential and with F&amp;S you've implied there's some opportunities.
So in terms of a chicken-egg situation which is coming first? Are you really starting now and looking at divestitures or are you going to bring the whole thing together and then look at paring some of the businesses off? No I think -- we have been looking at this portfolio transformation at F&amp;S really for the last year or so.
So we're closer on that than you might think.
Timing-wise Carrier is further down the pipe in terms of some of its divestiture opportunities and they're continuing to work some of those things.
And so I would expect you'll see fourth quarter this year early into next year hopefully the conclusion of that portfolio transformation.
And then it will start to pick up I would think on the F&amp;S side of the business in the second half of next year.
And Joe you'll recall we have been doing stuff at F&amp;S as well.
The man-guiding [ph] business which is the low margin has been out of the portfolio pretty much now over the last few years.
So it is something they've been focused on.
But with Geraud's additional oversight I think they'll probably get some more things done faster.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally you may have already given this I may have missed it but in terms of the pension for next year for the overall company if current rates kind of stay where they are what's the headwind? It's about $0.15.
And that's at a 5% discount rate.
That assumes I think a 3% return on assets this year.
So we'll see.
For every 10 basis point change in the discount rate that costs us about $20 million of expense.
So you guys can do the math.
We'll see where we are on December 31.
Unfortunately there's nothing to do until then.
And our final question comes from Deane Dray from Citi Investment.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of clean-up questions.
The first is the Otis China escalator problem has that all been resolved? Yes I think in terms of the root cause we certainly have understood that.
We understood that right away with a supplier issue with a bolt that was undersized.
I think again we're still working with the authorities in Beijing to make sure that they understand our quality control processes are intact and that it's never going to happen again.
It's an unfortunate incident but again like any other problem that we find we get to root cause we get it solved and we make sure it doesn't happen again.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I might have missed this but the expectations for fourth quarter in the price cost how does that net out? You said that Carrier is facing some additional headwinds this quarter.
What's the expectation? I think next quarter Carrier will see the benefit of pricing.
The commodities are still a headwind.
So I think net-net we'll still see a little bit of headwind but it is going to be a lot less than what we have seen in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one back on Residential Carrier.
Greg you talked about the mix shift and the focus on buyers towards the lower end 13s here but it also raises the question of whether you're at a disadvantage in not having a lower price point brand to begin with.
Sort of the good better best you're skewed towards the better best brands with Carrier.
In fact we do have 3 brands.
If you think about it Carrier is the premier brand out there and it's the higher efficiency products.
You have Bryant and you have Payne at the entry-level.
And I think Payne at that price point competes very very effectively.
In fact that's where we've seen most of the growth is coming at that low entry line Payne.
Again it can meet -- it's got a great cost footprint and it's very competitive on the low end.
So I don't think we've lost any share.
In fact we've probably maybe even picked up a little bit as we've been able to leverage that low-end brand.
And Carrier has the scale.
As you know they are the market leaders and they have the scale to bring the costs down and they continue to work on that every day.
Let me turn it over to you guys for any closing remarks.
Okay thanks Gevan.
Thanks everybody for listening.
So another solid quarter and we're confident in our improved 2011 outlook and we're positioning UTC for 2012 with increased restructuring this year and a commitment to grow earnings even in this tough macro environment.
And beyond 2012 we've aggressively invested in strategic deals to transform the business and we continue to invest in strategic technologies to grow the business over the long term.
So thanks all for listening.
I'll remind everybody that we'll be in New York on December 15 for an evening with Louis to talk about 2012 in detail.
Have a great day.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Maria Lee [ph] Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTC's website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and onetime items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTC's SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Thank you Trinita and good morning everyone.
As we all know there's plenty of uncertainty out there in the world economy.
On the one hand of course you hear about the ongoing European debt crisis continuing weak U.S.
housing market and the high unemployment in key developed markets.
On the other hand there are some positive signs that the economic recovery looks to be gaining traction especially here in the U.S.
and the commercial aerospace market continues to have good growth prospects.
Here at UTC we know how to operate in this uncertain and uneven global economic times and we continue to be well positioned to meet our commitments.
As you saw on the press release this morning UTC closed out a strong 2011.
Full year sales were over $58 billion up 7% from 2010 and 6% organic growth with all 6 of our businesses growing organically.
Earnings per share were $5.49 and that's up 16% year-over-year.
And free cash flow was very strong at 113% of net income with 67% return to shareowners through dividends and share repurchase.
And we achieved all of this while continuing to invest for the long term.
Company-funded engineering and development spend was $2.1 billion last year.
That's up $312 million versus 2010 primarily at Pratt &amp; Whitney as we continue to develop 4 separate geared turbofan platforms.
As well total restructuring was $336 million of which $148 million was in the fourth quarter as we preemptively positioned the company to grow earnings this year despite over $0.40 of anticipated headwind.
That headwind is going to come from foreign exchange pension and additional DND investments.
Okay.
On Slide 2 turning to fourth quarter results.
Fourth quarter earnings per share was $1.47 that was up 12%.
A continued focus on cost reduction and productivity drove segment margin expansion even as we increased E&amp;D investment.
Organic growth of 2% was slightly better than our expectation and we once again had robust free cash flow.
Full segment operating profit grew 2% on flat segment sales.
Hamilton Sundstrand had another very strong quarter with 11% sales growth and 12% operating profit growth on strength in both the aerospace and industrial businesses.
Sikorsky's profit grew 2% in the quarter approximately $35 million below expectations primarily due to fewer-than-expected military shipments.
Segment operating margin expanded 20 basis points in the quarter with the benefits from cost reduction more than offset a $95 million increase in E&amp;D.
Restructuring and net onetime items were a benefit of $0.01 in the quarter as restructuring charges of $0.11 were more than offset by net onetime items which were a benefit of $0.12.
The $0.11 of restructuring was spread across most of the business units.
Sikorsky is taking proactive steps to position the business to grow operating profit despite a decline in military volume in 2012.
Fire &amp; Security continues to drive cost reductions and operations transformation to offset declining markets particularly in the U.K.
and to address continuing performance issues in their business.
The $0.12 benefit from net onetime items included favorable tax settlements of $0.13 and a gain from Carrier's ongoing portfolio transformation of $0.09 which more than offset a $0.05 charge related to the impairment of the equity investment in Asia at Fire &amp; Security and a $0.05 reserve related to legal matters.
These legal matters concern potential penalties that the State Department and the DOJ might impose as a result of self disclosures that we've made over the last several years concerning certain export compliance matters.
As I mentioned earnings per share in the quarter were up 12%.
Excluding restructuring and onetime items in the fourth quarter of both years earnings per share increased 9%.
FX did not have an impact in the quarter year-over-year.
In the quarter we also had a benefit from the operational tax rate of about $0.14 and that was partially offset by $0.04 of Goodrich deal costs and the $0.05 associated with minority joint ventures.
Free cash flow in the quarter was 123% of net income.
That's great performance.
Even as we contributed $304 million in cash to our international pension plans.
Even with the additional drop in discount rates this year our global pension plans are 87% funded on a PBO basis.
We spent $128 million on acquisitions in the quarter and there is no share repurchase.
If you'll recall we suspended share buyback in September as a result of the Goodrich transaction after having already spent $2.2 billion in the year.
All right Slide 3 looking at orders for a second.
Pratt &amp; Whitney's large commercial engine spares were down 16% for the quarter following a 45% growth in last year's fourth quarter.
That's really in line with expectations.
For the full year Pratt's spares orders were up 8%.
Hamilton Sundstrand commercial spares orders were up 17% in the quarter after 31% in last year's fourth quarter.
For the full year Hamilton's commercial spares orders were up 22% very strong performance.
So orders for Pratt and Hamilton were about in line with what we expected while Carrier and Fire &amp; Security were a little bit off.
Carrier's North American residential HVAC orders were down about 20% in the quarter roughly in line with the market.
You'll recall that fourth quarter of 2010 grew about 30% driven by the expiration of the tax stimulus rebate.
But Carrier did see orders decelerate over the quarter to lower-than-expected levels.
And we continue to see a preference in customers' buying pattern for lower-featured lower-efficiency products.
Fire &amp; Security orders were down 2% organically driven by our own products and service and installation businesses.
At Otis new equipment orders were up 2% at constant currency on tough comparison in North America and slower growth in China.
Otis' new equipment orders in China grew 7% at constant currency in the fourth quarter after growing 31% in the third quarter.
For the full year China's new equipment orders were up over 20%.
We continue to see strong but moderating growth in the emerging markets consistent with our expectations.
Combined BRIC orders for the commercial businesses were up 8% this quarter after growing 23% in the third quarter.
So despite a slowing world economy 2011 was still a strong year for UTC with 6% organic sales growth EPS up 16% and robust free cash flow.
All while we continued to make investments in this game-changing technologies and cost reduction.
I'll be back to talk about 2012 but first let me turn it over to Maria [ph] to take us through the details of the business units.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 4.
Otis delivered another solid quarter with profit increasing 5% on 3% higher sales.
Operating margin reached 23% in the quarter 40 basis points higher than prior year.
The positive impact on operating profit from higher sales volume and continued cost reduction were partially offset by pricing and commodity headwinds.
Favorable currency translation contributed 1 point of profit growth.
New equipment sales increased 6% at constant currency led by continued growth in emerging markets.
Service sales were also up with growth in contractual maintenance and repair.
At constant currency new equipment orders were up 2% in the quarter with 7% growth in China low single-digit growth in Europe and a decline in North America from last year's strong fourth quarter which included the order for the World Trade Center transportation hub.
Otis' new equipment backlog is up 8% year-over-year.
For the full year operating margin expanded 20 basis points to a record 23.2% with 9% profit growth on 7% sales growth.
At constant currency profit increased 4% on 3% sales growth.
On Slide 5.
Carrier profits increased 10% on 9% lower sales resulting in record Q4 margin of 9.8% up 170 basis points from prior year.
Organic sales were flat on continued moderation of growth in Transicold and the shutdown of our Toshiba Thailand factory due to the extensive flooding.
The North American residential market is off to a slow start to the heating season and faces tough compares as Greg mentioned.
North American residential unit shipments of gas furnaces and split systems were both down double digit in the quarter.
The earnings headwinds from lower North American residential volume combined with the absence of earnings from Latin America following the fourth quarter transaction with Midea was more than offset by nonrecurring credits to warranty and benefits expenses.
Commodity headwind in the quarter was completely offset by pricing following the recent price increase in the U.S.
For the year Carrier grew earnings by $315 million or 28% a 9% organic sales growth.
With operating margin at 12.2% up 220 basis points from prior year Carrier has reached its 12% margin target a full year ahead of expectation.
UTC Fire &amp; Security profit contracted 13% in the quarter on 2% lower sales.
Organic sales were up 1%.
Product businesses were up mid-single digit and service and install businesses were down low-single digit due to continuing softness in the U.K.
and America's businesses.
Organic orders were down 2% year-over-year.
Operating profit in the quarter contracted 13% at constant currency.
Benefits from cost-reduction as well as a gain on the sale of a guarding-related business in the U.K.
were offset by continuing profit decline in the U.K.
from lower sales and performance combined with unfavorable sales mix.
For the full year operating profit was up $46 million and operating margin was 12.2%.
Turning to Aerospace on Slide 7.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney sales were up 1% in the quarter including 2 points of unfavorable foreign currency at Pratt Canada.
Sales growth was driven by higher large commercial engine deliveries and industrial volume at Power Systems partially offset by lower large commercial spares and reduced volume at Rocketdyne.
As expected large commercial spares were down 7% in the quarter on tough compares.
Operating profit in the quarter was down 2%.
Higher E&amp;D and unfavorable currency at Pratt Canada more than offset a favorable adjustment of about $0.04 due to a contract termination.
Restructuring savings offset higher pension costs.
For the full year sales were up 4% and operating profit was down $100 million in line with guidance.
Hamilton Sundstrand posted a strong quarter with profit growth of 12% on 11% higher sales.
Organic sales growth of 12% was the highest since Q2 2008.
Sales growth was led by Aerospace OEM and Industrial businesses both up about mid-teens.
Commercial aftermarket was up mid-single digits versus a strong fourth quarter 2010.
Profit growth in the quarter was driven by benefits of increased volume partially offset by unfavorable mix from higher OEM sales.
Operating margin was up 10 basis points year-over-year to 17.9%.
Commercial spares orders increased 17% year-over-year with book-to-bill at 1.1.
Industrial orders were up 16% with particular strength at Sundyne's oil and gas business.
For the full year sales were up 10% profit was up $115 million and operating margins expanded by 40 basis points to 17.9%.
2011 was a record year for sales earnings and operating margin at Hamilton Sundstrand.
Turning to Sikorsky on Slide 9.
Operating profits grew 2% on 1% higher sales.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 73 aircraft 3 less than the fourth quarter 2010.
61 aircraft were based on military platforms and 12 commercial.
On profit strong aftermarket volumes and lower manufacturing costs more than offset the unfavorable impact of lower commercial aircraft deliveries and 2 Canadian maritime helicopters.
Of note during the quarter Sikorsky signed a contract with the Brunei Ministry of Defense for 12 firm and 10 option S-70i aircraft marking the largest order value to date for Sikorsky's International variant of the BLACK HAWK.
For the year Sikorsky delivered 274 aircraft.
Operating profit of $820 million was up 12% on 10% higher sales.
Operating profit was lower than expected primarily due to lower military aircraft delivery.
With that let me turn it over to Greg for wrap-up.
Okay.
Thanks Maria [ph].
So a strong 2011 organic sales growth record segment operating margin including double-digit margins at all 6 of our business units EPS growth of 16% on top of robust cash generation.
And we continue to expand UTC's presence in emerging markets which now represents 21% of UTC sales.
We also announced 2 transformational deals in 2011.
First of course the acquisition of Goodrich with complementary products and high aftermarket content which will expand our presence in the fast growing Commercial Aerospace market.
Integration and planning is going well and there's no changes in our expectations for a midyear close of the deal.
The agreement to purchase Rolls Royce's share of IAE joint venture and to partner with the next generation midsized aircraft ensures a smooth transition from V2500 production to the GTF and further validates the GTF technology.
With the creation of the new Propulsion and Aerospace Systems organization we'll better coordinate our technology development and take advantage of synergy opportunities across all of these businesses.
Pratt &amp; Whitney completed the first test program for the CSeries engine.
Overall 6 GTF engines have now completed more than 1 500 hours of testing and the engines continue to validate our performance expectations.
Of course our customers see the value in our engine and have ordered or taken options for more than 2 000 engines and we continue to deliver production engines for the JSF.
And during the year we removed any doubt concerning the extra engine for the Joint Strike Fighter.
Hamilton Sundstrand last year supported entry into service of the 787 with our 9 systems all performing extremely well.
And at Sikorsky the BLACK HAWK continues to gain traction in the International marketplace with over 50 orders from international customers in 2011.
We also announced last year the creation of the Climate Controls and Security segment and we'll begin reporting that segment in 2012.
Geraud and his team are going to leverage their experience with Carrier's portfolio and operations transformation to drive continued productivity and margin expansion at the combined businesses.
At Otis operating margins of 23.2% were again a record and we'll continue to lead the industry.
The transformational deals new organizational structure and continued investment in game-changing technologies and cost reduction position us well for consistent long-term earnings growth.
Okay.
Let's take a look at 2012 for a second.
There have been some puts and takes but the overall economic data seems to be generally in line with our expectations that Louis laid out in December.
And so today we will reaffirm the 2012 EPS guidance of $5.80 to $6 per share for our base business excluding the Goodrich the impact from Goodrich.
That's earnings growth of 6% to 9% and sales of $59 billion to $60 billion.
Europe of course remains a question mark as we begin 2012 and we are seeing some pressure from the euro which has traded as low as $1.26 versus the $1.
We continue to keep a close eye on exchange rates and we expect FX to be a significant headwind in the first half of 2012 as the euro averaged $1.40 last year in the first half.
And Louis pointed out there's always volatility in interest rates and we continue to see that in the fourth quarter.
We'd estimated that the discount rates for our pension plan would be about 5%.
In fact the actual discount rate came in a little lower at 4.7%.
The impact of that was partially offset by better performance in the plan but unfortunately represents an additional $50 million of headwind for 2012 versus the guidance that Louis gave in December.
Also back in December we had visibility of $150 million to $200 million of gains in 2012 that we planned to use to offset restructuring in our base business.
We now see an additional $300 million of gains in the first half of the year 2012.
We expect to use these additional gains to offset a portion of the Goodrich restructuring and deal costs and this provides us some flexibility given the currency volatility and pension headwind.
With the additional gains we feel even better about 2012 than we did in December although the first quarter will have its challenges.
As I mentioned earlier we saw a slowdown in the order rates for the residential HVAC and the legacy F&amp;S businesses.
And that will put pressure on Climate Controls &amp; Security in the first half which also faces tough compares.
Carriers' operating profit you'll recall grew over 100% in the first quarter of 2011 driven by strength at Transicold and the restocking benefit of our residential HVAC business.
We also saw a strength in our Toshiba businesses last year.
But today unfortunately the Toshiba Thailand facility remains closed due to clean-up efforts related to the extensive flooding.
On the Aerospace side order rates were in line with expectations in the fourth quarter but they also faced tough compares in the first quarter.
As you recall commercial spares sales were up over 30% at Pratt last year and up over 20% at Hamilton in the first quarter of 2011.
So a little bit of first quarter headwind and a little bit in half we'll have to deal with it.
Turning to cash flow for 2012.
We continue to expect free cash flow to equal or exceed net income for the full year.
We have suspended our share repurchase program and we have a placeholder for acquisitions of $500 million for the year excluding Goodrich and the IAE transaction.
With our industry-leading franchises transformational deals and sustained structural cost reduction we are well positioned for earnings growth in 2012 and beyond.
So with that let's open up the call for questions.
Trinita? [Operator Instructions]  Our first question is from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two items Greg.
First you talk about $300 million in gains and I think some of that comes from some asset sales that you've already announced.
Could you highlight those? I think one of them is the Ecowash business and then there's another Carrier-related sale I believe? No.
We had identified $150 million to $200 million of gains to offset restructuring and Louis talked about that in December.
And I think those things that you're talking about were those gains that we have contemplated.
This is an additional $300 million of gains and it's really related to settlement of some open tax years that we expect to happen here in the first half of the year.
So this is truly incremental to what Louis had talked about.
So we have seen $150 million to $200 million of gains we now see roughly $500 million of gains.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just one item.
Everybody dealing with Uncle Sam and the Department of Defense is facing challenges and one of the uncertainties that you've had has been with the multiyear procurement of the U-860.
How do you sort of see that playing out? And what sort of puts and takes have you sort of allowed for with respect to that issue? Yes.
Howard it's a very good question.
I think we have pretty well calibrated Sikorsky military for 2012 given what we expect to come out in the budget tomorrow.
BLACK HAWKs will be down about 30 units about 15% in sales at Sikorsky on the military side.
So I think we've already contemplated that as part of a multiyear 8.
We're still negotiating multiyear where we expect to have that done kind of midyear.
I would point out on the military side though it's not all gloom and doom.
You do have good news on the Pratt side with the JSF.
As I said there's no extra engine.
As we see it right now we see about 10% growth in the military side of Pratt in 2012 on the back of the JSF production.
So I think it's actually pretty good news.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess C-17 is doing well given the ongoing demand in Afghanistan.
Yes.
C-17 I think so the aftermarket plays well as an OE it continues -- we've got the C-17s going to India.
And again good strong aftermarket there.
Our next question is from Terry Darling of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Sort of jumping between calls here so I apologize if you got into this.
And if you did I'll just come back.
But I wonder if you can touch base on Otis aftermarket.
Growth was pretty anemic there.
Can you update us on your thinking on China as well with regards to the social housing dynamic over the next 12 months or so? Yes.
If we take a look at service at Otis in the fourth quarter it was only up about 1%.
Really a pretty decent on the maintenance side.
Where we really saw softness was in modernization.
That was actually down about 4% or so.
Repair was up 4%.
And I think regular maintenance was up 2 or so percent.
So a little softer than what we had expected but really on the modernization side.
Europe continues to be the drag there where we're just not getting traction on the mod  orders that we had expected.
At China it's a little different story.
Obviously there was a slowdown where we saw our growth going from 30% to 7% on the OE.
But as we think about this we really got very strong backlog going into 2012 up about 20% year-over-year.
And we think again we'll see mid-single-digit growth at Otis this year driven by social housing.
And again the move from the Eastern Seaboard to the West of the country.
I think social housing last year was about 5 million units.
The government came out recently and revised the projection from 10 million down to 7 million units this year but still pretty strong growth.
And again we don't really have a big concern about China slowing down dramatically this year.
I think again the fourth quarter was probably to be expected given what the government was doing to try and rein in the property speculation in China.
But 7% growth is still pretty good and for the year 20% growth in Otis in new equipment in China.
So I don't think that story really changes fundamentally.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with regards to the first quarter comps that you talked about at Carrier.
Does Carrier overall have negative organic growth in the first quarter or not that bad? No no.
It's not that bad.
I think the issue that you have at Carrier is last year first quarter earnings I think were up $167 million.
That's up over 100% year-over-year.
And thus you had F&amp;S which grew I think at 36 or so.
It was over $200 million between the combined businesses.
And F&amp;S also had the gain on the sale of its U.K.
manned guarding business.
So it's is a pretty tough comp.
We will see Transicold down in the first quarter.
We expect res to come back a little bit.
We expect commercial to be okay.
But I think again just with the pressures of Toshiba Thailand and the fact that we're not shipping anything there earnings are going to be challenged.
In fact I would think in the first quarter earnings will be down at CCS year-over-year.
First half we'll probably be flat and then for the rest of the year we'll see the growth as we get traction on the restructuring and the continued market improvements throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Greg just lastly some chatter out there about how you might be thinking about asset sales to help to fund Goodrich and some chatter about strategic considerations on Sikorsky.
And related to that I guess joint ventures and so forth.
Can you just address that whole issue as well? Let me take it head-on because I think there's -- Louis said this back in December.
And I think obviously as part of the Goodrich deal we had hoped to issue about $4 billion of equity and $12 billion of debt.
And we all know we hate to issue equity.
At the same time I hate to lose my credit rating.
So we're going to go after this in a methodical fashion.
We're looking at non-core assets to divest and we're going to continue down that path.
We're going to work with the rating agencies over the next couple of months and come up with a plan that will hopefully reduce the amount of equity that we're going to issue and we're going to lay that out for investors in our March 15 meeting down in New York.
So we're continuing to work it.
We're looking at non-core assets across UTC both on the commercial side and on the aero side.
Let me just say that Sikorsky as far as I can tell is a core asset of UTC though.
So I think we can probably put that speculation to bed.
Our next question is from Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research.
Just a little on Fire &amp; Security Greg.
I mean what you said about Q1 is fairly clear.
But just thinking about moving beyond that a number of issues there.
I think some of what you're dealing with maybe some stuff in backlog that you're not particularly proud of and need to work its way through.
I just wonder if you can give us some thoughts on that.
How long that drag persists? And how long it takes to kind of get after the SG&amp;A that's also causing the cost headwinds relative to growth maybe being on the light side versus expectations? Yes yes Jeff those are all good and fair questions.
I would tell you while we're disappointed with F&amp;S's performance last year I have to point out that we still had 12.2% margins.
So it's not a broken business.
But there certainly are opportunities for improvement.
And I would tell you first and foremost it's in the field operations in Europe and primarily in the U.K.
As we dissected this and Geraud and the team have been looking at the portfolio there certainly we were taking out some work at margins that were really just not acceptable and the performance on those contracts weren't very good.
I think we cleaned a lot of that up in the fourth quarter.
But it's probably going to be a tough 2012 at F&amp;S as we work our way through the rest of that portfolio.
As Geraud is taking a look at the entire portfolio he would expect to divest I think some of the non-core F&amp;S assets this year.
And I think you'll hear more about that in March.
But fundamentally the business is not broken.
We have some opportunities.
We know how to fix things.
We go back to Collierville at Carrier back in 2006.
That was a broken factory after the SEER 13 transition.
I think we made no bones about it.
It was a problem.
I would tell you Geraud and the team they fixed it.
Today that is a world-class factory.
It's ace gold.
I think you'll see the same kind of focus on the Fire &amp; Security business in Europe that you saw on that particular problem.
We'll get it fixed.
It's just going to take a little bit of time.
So I think most of the bad news is behind us but certainly not all of it on F&amp;S.
So it will be a tough 2012.
And can you just give us a bit more granularity on Transicold? Obviously it's down in Q1.
But what's actually going on with the orders there? And is that business kind of on track it's kind of down for the year maybe some geographic color around that also? Sure.
So on Transicold if we look across the business the orders in the fourth quarter were down low-double digits with container down the most down about 30%.
And Europe Truck Trailer also saw some weakness down low-double digits as well.
And what you really see there is the impact of the economic conditions in Europe and the availability of credit for some of the customers.
North America Trailer Truck Trailer however was up over 100%.
And now we see some of the trailer OEMs finalizing their Q1 delivery schedules so we feel pretty good about that.
Just to add the orders there are pretty lumpy.
Containers orders were down.
I think the fundamental structural issue in Europe is probably a bigger concern for the year as we see creditors tighten up for credit availability to our customers.
But overall it will be down after a record year in 2011.
But it's not a train wreck by any stretch of the imagination so they're a very very solid business this year.
Our next question is from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I had looked at where you started in December with your contingency of call it $130 million it seems like both pension and FX probably absorbed most of that.
Should I be thinking about it now with this additional potential gains as a cushion in the $300 million range? Well really good Sam.
Yes if you think about it at the midpoint of the guidance range at $590 million we had about $130 million of contingency.
We've lost about $50 million of that to the higher pension costs with the lower discount rate.
And the rest of it if you take a snapshot of the euro today and the exchange rates we probably lost another $70 million or $80 million.
So the contingency at the midpoint is essentially evaporated.
However and we talked about this additional $300 million of gain.
My own view is that we'll use half of it or so on the Goodrich deal costs and restructuring and the other half we'll just build contingency for us.
So really what I'd like to think of it as that we still got $150 million of contingency because the bad news that we talked about so far on pension and FX is really covered by the other half of the gain.
So we're kind of at the same spot that we were even though the euro is lower and pension is worse 6 weeks later.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in your slide you talked about a couple onetime items that I guess weren't part of how you had it in the release.
But can you size the gain on the contract termination at Pratt and on the U.K.
guarding business? Yes.
The Pratt gain on the contract termination was about $0.04.
So I think the piece on F&amp;S was about $0.01.
That was a sale of our security one of our security manned guarding businesses in the U.K.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then the last question how should we think about the Thailand piece of Carrier? How big of an impact is that? How much does that change things in 2012? Yes I would say we don't expect the factory to be back up in production until the second quarter.
I think last year we generated about $30 million of earnings there in the first quarter.
So those earnings will go completely away.
Obviously it will have an impact a little bit into the second quarter so we're probably going to lose almost half a year's production in the -- out of Thailand.
So things are pretty tough first half.
Our next question is from Heidi Wood of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A question a little bit on the cap on the balance sheet side.
You started the year with a debt to cap at 31% net debt to cap is 16%.
I know you've got sort of a matrix of ideas that -- and you're working with the rating agencies on different alternatives.
But can you give a sense as to maybe what the range of the balance sheet would look like kind of post facto? Yes there's a lot more debt.
Yes I think as you think about -- as you said debt to cap is 31% today.
We've got a lot of cash on the balance sheet over $6 billion of cash.
There's $1.5 billion of that cash that was going to go to pay for the IAE transaction which we expect to close in the second quarter.
So that cash is somewhat spoken for.
I think debt to cap is going to migrate up towards the 50% post deal.
And again it's really a question of how much debt we have to issue versus equity.
But you can kind of think of it in that 50% range.
And then over the next 2 to 3 years we'll bring it back down as we pay off a big chunk of this.
I think the good news is cash generation was exceptionally strong for the year.
We continue to see strong cash generation in 2012.
And I think Goodrich is going to be a better investment than anybody would have thought.
I think again we think there's nothing but upside there especially with their aftermarket businesses.
So it's going to be a little lumpy.
And again I think once we understand what we're going to be from a portfolio standpoint in March and we lay that out for you you'll get to see what the real debt to cap looks like.
But I don't anticipate it going north of 50% when we're all said and done.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then a question on Hamilton.
When should we start to -- when does the provisional spares in the 787 start to tick up and how's that going to affect the margins if at all? Yes we've actually started to see it in the fourth quarter.
The big piece of the aftermarket growth at Hamilton in the fourth quarter was 787.
We'll see some more incremental benefit this year.
It's not real big.
It's probably less than $0.02 of earnings out of that.
But the big piece of what we're doing though especially with some of the initial airlines we're providing a care package which is our kind of nose-to-tail support.
So the provisioning is going to be a little bit muted versus what you would normally see on a new program.
But again the economics of that program we provide and we provision for the spares and the support and we get paid for that on an hourly basis.
That actually is a pretty good deal for us.
So we get a little bit of benefit this year year-over-year but it's not huge.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then last question on the Pratt and Whitney on the new engine shipments.
Your large commercial deliveries were up 40% year-over-year in the fourth quarter and you obviously you had a good surge in the third quarter.
Can you tell us a little bit on a quarterly basis how the new engines shipments look over 2012? I don't know that I've got a breakdown of 2012.
I think if you think about that 40% improve or increase in 2011 a big piece of that that's like 44 engines I guess.
Big piece of that was V2500s.
I think we shipped about 27 of V2500s and 14 of the GP7000s.
As you know we only get about 1/3 of the revenue out of the Vs and 50% out of the GP7000.
So it was nice shipments.
I think we're going to continue to see that kind of volume into 2012.
But I don't know that we have -- I'm just looking here if we have that.
Research Division</strong> It makes sense Greg just as we think about it given the production ramp in 2013 that we'd start to see it more and more in the back half of this year? I think what you're going to see is a continuation of what we saw in the third and fourth quarter at Pratt.
You're going to continue to see Vs increase with the production line increasing at Airbus.
And as the ramp rate on the A380 increases again you're going to see the GP  pickup at kind of the rates that we're seeing in the third and fourth quarter.
Just to add to that a little bit.
For the whole year at least 2012 we do see total commercial engine shipments up low-single digits with the Vs up almost 10% for the high-single digit.
Our next question is from Deane Dray of Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> Before the expected sale of these non-core assets I know we're going to hear more about it in March but might some of these sales be completed in 2012? And would there be gains on these transactions? Yes and yes.
And again I can't be too specific Deane.
Obviously as we look at this the key to any of these transactions is to actually get it completed this year really to fund the Goodrich deal.
And whether we're going to use it to pay down debt or reduce the amount of equity we're still working through that.
But you would expect these businesses although they're non-core that doesn't mean they're bad businesses.
In fact I think there could be some very good businesses out there that just aren't core but that will generate significant interest in the marketplace.
It's going to take us some time.
I would expect again we'll lay this out in a couple of months.
We'll start to process around some of these divestitures but it will probably take us most of the year but our target right now is to have all of the divestitures done in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Now but the gains there in theory that would take you well above the contingency.
So would that be potential more restructuring offsets? Yes.
I think again those gains equal restructuring math is --we're going to try and continue to do that.
But it's really hard to tell you what the gains are going to be out of these businesses.
It's a little early.
Research Division</strong> Of course.
And then just last question for me.
I know you've got a question mark regarding the impact on Europe but it didn't seem to have much of an effect in the fourth quarter.
Could you just comment on what you're seeing real time in terms of customer behavior destocking? Any color there would be helpful.
It's really an interesting thing about Europe is Carrier's business the commercial HVAC business in the fourth quarter was actually up 8% year-over-year.
And it's not related to commercial construction activity in Europe it's really related to just the push for energy efficiency in the replacement market.
Otis was not quite the same story.
Obviously it's a bigger business for them.
They had more pressure in Europe.
But the fact is I think Europe is just -- it's going to be a tough road ahead.
I think we've -- the good news about UTC balance works.
It's 25% of the sales come out of Europe.
We don't expect much growth but we don't expect any big surprises.
Maybe just to kind of put it in context.
In 2009 Europe was down 14% as was the U.S.
and I think even Asia and emerging markets were down like 16% or 17%.
In 2010 and 2011 we saw a 2% growth in the euro.
So if you think about it we're still down 10% from the peak.
So there's still opportunities there but I think it's going to be a very long slow growth to recovery in Europe.
And again we'll see how this debt crisis plays itself out.
I'm not all that concerned.
A big chunk of what we do in Europe is obviously service-related which seems to be pretty resilient.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'm a little confused on the EPS guidance.
I just want to kind of walk through this again.
Because your guidance you didn't update us on the guidance including Goodrich.
And it looks like half of the new gains are offsetting deal costs but those weren't part of your x Goodrich EPS guidance.
So Greg any -- I don't know can you illuminate that a little bit? Sorry for the confusion.
The way we have laid this out we've got the base business of $5.80 to $6 right? 6% to 9% growth.
And what we've done is we've allocated half of this additional gain as contingency there really to cover the pension and FX impact.
The other half call it $150 million we'll use to offset either deal costs or restructuring at Goodrich post close.
So if you think about it we talked about $0.50 of dilution related to Goodrich.
I think that's probably $0.10 better on the low end so probably only about $0.40.
So if you want to take $0.40 off the top at the low end you can figure out the Goodrich impact.
The reason we're reluctant to give guidance specifically on the Goodrich dilution is we're still working through this equity issuance and the impact on that versus debt as well as the impact associated with any divestitures.
So we're trying to focus people on the base business for now.
In another 1.5 months or so I think you'll have a lot more clarity on this Goodrich.
But if you're just trying to do the simple math today I'd tell you you can put a $0.10 off or take a $0.10 off the $0.50 we gave you in December.
Research Division</strong> And the way to think about the $5.80 is to $6 is basically you lost $1.50 from the 2 items you mentioned and you picked that back up with half the gains we're talking about? Yes.
I think that's the simplest way to think about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then over at Otis your margins -- your adjusted margins have been up something like 15 straight years and your guidance this year calls for a bit of a downtick and you've done that before and beaten numbers.
So what's different this year that should compress margins? I think the big difference this year is the growth that we expect in new equipment.
And as we've been talking about for the last 8 quarters is pricing has been pretty tough on new equipment really across the globe.
And so as you see that growth in new equipment which -- I mean I'll just take a look at my notes here.
It's kind of up high-single digits call it 7% or so.
You're not going to get a lot of conversion out of that.
So sales will be up but you're just not going to see a lot of bottom line conversion on those sales as most of those we got with really low margin.
So we're expecting service growth to be up mid-single digits.
So the new equipment growth is outpacing the service growth.
The other thing to just keep in mind is there will be some commodity headwinds as well as FX headwind next year at Otis so that will also impact margins.
Yes.
I think we've been telling people all along a 20%-plus margins are always the goal even after the recovery.
So when we get to a more normal split of new equipment versus service I think you'll see a little bit of margin pressure.
Margins are still going to be industry-leading.
I think it's hard to argue with the success of Otis over the last 15 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally I hear you on the China -- the Otis China backlog going into 2012.
And so you have some visibility there despite the reduction in the growth rate from the government side.
But as we think about orders what's your embedded expectation for Otis China orders in 2012? And I'd ask the same question on Pratt commercial spares.
What order growth do you expect for the full year? I think it will probably be double digit is what's in the base assumption.
So we kind of figure that at the 10% 12% kind of range for Otis for new equipment.
On the Pratt side for spares it's about 5% growth for the year.
And again it's double that at Hamilton.
And I would just point out you got a lot more visibility at Pratt in terms of the engine overhauls and when they're coming into the shop.
So I think Pratt's got a lot more fidelity around that 5%.
As you take a look at Hamilton with their 10% that really is out of the back of what they consider to be a 5% growth in revenue passenger miles or available seat miles this year plus the price increase that went into effect on January 1.
So a little bit better performance on the aftermarket at Hamilton.
But I still feel pretty confident on the Pratt aftermarket given the visibility we have.
Our next question is from Robert Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just have a follow-up on Joe's question about the Pratt aftermarket Greg.
Is there anything changing here? Are we seeing any sort of fundamental slowdown in the airline demand for engine spares or overhaul is this really just down to tough comparison and maybe the end of initial restocking? Yes.
I think that's exactly it.
We actually -- we track heavy versus light overhauls and we continue to see really over the last 8 quarters airlines are starting to do more and more of the heavy overhauls versus the light.
I think it's almost 88% now on our heavy overhauls.
So we have good visibility.
Now you do have of course Pratt's got an older fleet.
You see some 757s coming out of production.
You see MD-80s of course being retired in America and such.
So I think part of this is just the natural aging of the Pratt fleet.
But also just the fact that we have that kind of a nice recovery second half of 2010 all the way through 2011.
So you just have a much tougher compares.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question on the A320neo I just wonder if you could comment on how your market share has been shipping up with the geared turbofan there and what your expectations might be going forward? I think again we've -- obviously we had a great start to 2011.
It was a little bit of a slowdown in the middle of the year.
But at the end of the year I think we're still having at least 50% of the market and we still believe we can get 50%-plus as customers look at the value of the GTF versus the LEAP.
So yes it's going to be a the long slog as you know.
I think that the best news is we've got orders for over 2 000 engines now in backlog that weren't there a year ago.
So still again it's a tough market out there.
We got tough competition with CFM.
But again the technology the GTF technology will trump the other engine we think at the end of the day.
We also of course have the benefits of the IAE transaction coming in here where again we'll take control of IAE hopefully here in the first half and can give us a very smooth transition that will allow us to work with customers and our current V customers and try and convert some of those even to GTF on the follow-on orders.
Our next question is from Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> On Sikorsky you mentioned the profit shortfall of pure military deliveries in the quarter maybe $25 million $35 million of EBIT shortfall.
But then on the 2012 outlook it wasn't updated.
So number one there's no catch up; and number two it would imply 2012 outlook is also implicitly lower.
I would disagree with you on the second point.
The fact is we did miss some helicopters at end of the year.
There were like 6 BLACK HAWKs that did not go.
We're still 100% on contract to the U.S.
government.
So this is not a big issue in terms of production problems at Sikorsky.
Again we were on time.
We hope to get these 6 aircraft out.
We've gotten about half of them out in the first couple of weeks of January.
The rest will go here in the first few months.
So if you think about it last year we had their guidance up $25 million to $50 million.
We still think they're going to be up the same to the same net amount even though the base is lower.
So implicitly their guidance should be up that $35 million risk that you have out there.
And one thing to keep in mind is that we talked about how the pension came in with the discount rate being lower so there's higher pension headwind going into next year.
So some of that will go to Sikorsky and that may offset some of the benefits.
Mrs.
Lee [ph] is exactly correct and I stand corrected there.
So it's about $10 million of pension headwind out of that $50 million that we talked about.
So if you think about it there's probably $25 million of upside to Sikorsky on an absolute basis from where they ended last year.
But again I think nothing's fundamentally wrong with the business.
It will perform this year.
We said Military is down but we're seeing good strength on the Commercial side and then -- especially on the International Military side there.
As we said more than 50 orders last year from International customers so that will continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the 2012 cash outlook Greg it just seems like it could be very very strong and certainly more strong than the underlying EPS when the Goodrich deal is said and done.
Are there any puts and takes? Obviously pension it sounds like that will be a nice tailwind on a year-on-year basis from a cash perspective.
D&amp;A will be -- help cash conversion.
How are working capital and cash taxes looking? I think again as you think about the base business I think again we'll continue to deliver strong cash flows.
It's a little early to say that we're going to exceed net income for the year for cash flows on the base business.
But you'll see the same kind of performance year-on-year I think in 2012 that you saw in 2011.
I think the good news in cash flow the thing about fourth quarter performance we actually saw inventory up I think it was $36 million or $37 million year-over-year on a 7% increase in sales.
So I think good working capital performance good inventory performance in the fourth quarter.
Hope to get that traction or hope that traction will continue into 2012.
Once we do the Goodrich transaction obviously there's a significant amount of amortization costs which are non-cash charges.
I think that's about what $300 million for a full year $150 million.
So obviously that gives us a good visibility that you're going to see a stronger cash post-acquisition than the typical normal cash equal to net income.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification what was the -- in the quarter the $250 million of other operating activities net versus $400 million headwind last year? I think those are primarily on the taxes side.
The taxes it'd just be again some refunds on taxes that we had not expected.
Our next question is from Julian Mitchell of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First I guess within the CCS business.
You talked about the moving parts inside Transicold in Q4.
I guess what's embedded in your CCS expectations for Transicold just the overall Transicold business in 2012? Obviously it's had a decent sort of margin effect over the last kind of 12 to 18 months.
For the year '12 globally in that business do you still think sales and profits should be up? I think overall for Transicold markets we expect that they're down high-single digits.
And so with the Container market down over 10% that's we're seeing special strength there now we expect down over 10% U.S.
Trailer up mid-single digits and Europe Trailer market down -- or flat to down 5%.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just on Sikorsky when you touched on it just now.
But -- and there are a bunch of restructuring announcements sort of as you went through 2011.
And obviously end of the year a little bit soft in terms of the profits number in the end.
When you're thinking about the cost savings for '12 given the top line is there kind of a fresh new restructuring plan kind of being dusted off for Sikorsky? Or will it be the same thing while we're going through the year sort of step-by-step? I think Jeff did a lot of preemptive restructuring.
I think in the fourth quarter we spent $37 million at Sikorsky to address what we saw as the coming volume declines on the military side.
I think that right sizes the business for right now.
If you see any further deterioration obviously I think there's always opportunity for additional restructuring.
But I think again that $37 million was really to be preemptive to position us to grow earnings in 2012.
Our next question is from Ronald Epstein of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of going back to Otis again and demand.
I think you talked a little bit about demand in China but you've been adding capacity both in Brazil and India and how are those markets playing out so far for Otis? Brazil has actually been very strong for us and India has continued to see growth as well.
So those are big opportunities.
They don't have nearly the scale that China has.
If you think about China there must be almost $2 billion of revenue.
So these are our smaller businesses.
But again I think the growth prospects that we've seen we think we were building the factories so that we can deliver let's say 10 000 units in India this year and I think that seems to be on track.
In Brazil we just put in a new factory there to meet the increasing demand and I think there's been nothing on the horizon that indicates that we're not going to see that happen.
Just to note the new equipment sales in Brazil were up over 30% in the fourth quarter.
The orders were up mid-to-high teens.
And India the sales were a little bit down in the quarter but that's -- we think the orders are still pretty strong there and the market is fundamentally strong.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then maybe just a quick detailed question.
In Fire &amp; Security you took those impairment on in equity investment what was that? It was an investment in a manufacturer in China that we made several years.
We actually took a small impairment charge in the third quarter on that.
It's a small equity investment that we have.
I think we have 30% or so of the business.
It's still traded on the Hong Kong Exchange.
And unfortunately we have to mark it down to fair market value because on the Hong Kong Exchange the stock has gone down significantly since the acquisition.
Still a good business it's just that we had to face the reality that the publicly-traded piece was trading in at a significant discount to what we considered to be fair value.
So we had to take the write-down in the fourth quarter.
But again I think there's -- we'll work through that as part of this whole portfolio rationalization.
Whether or not that stays as part of the CCS portfolio I think we haven't decided yet.
But we took a conservative accounting view towards it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just one last quick one for you.
Clipper what's going on with Clipper? Clipper is sales last year were north of about $300 million.
We took some orders here in the fourth quarter.
We continue to deliver on the backlog.
We continue to spend on the engineering side to build the next generation of wind power.
This is yet a small piece of the business.
It's part of Pratt Power Systems now.
Peter Christman and Dave has continued to look at the business and work to improve that.
But it's a very tough market out there.
It's just going to be a tough story for a while on the wind side in the U.S.
Our next question is from Cai Von Rumohr of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So your legal expense the $0.05 was that -- you mentioned for export disclosure is that an FCPA issue? No.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's not.
It's not.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then secondly at Pratt you had huge volume in the final quarter and yet you're still talking about high single-digit gains.
I assume like $700 million of that is kind of adding an IAE but does that mean like 5% growth excluding that? Can you walk us through the pieces because I think you said what Military up 10% that seems high.
So how do we get to 5% or so excluding IAE? So you're right.
Organically it is up more mid-single digit if we exclude the IAE transaction.
We see commercial spares up mid-single digits.
Greg mentioned that before.
As well as Pratt Canada up high-single digits and then Military up to 10% and that pretty much gets you there.
LLC Research Division</strong> And how do you get Military up 10%? Because what C-17 F-22 are tracking flat to down.
Right.
So the OEM shipments are actually down mid-teens.
It has more to do with mix and there's more JSF that offsets the decline.
Our final question is from Douglas Harned of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm interested in understanding what you're seeing on pricing.
If you look at 2012 the kind of pricing increases you might be looking for both in Pratt Hamilton Sundstrand aftermarket as well as Otis and Carrier.
I think on the Aerospace side it's pretty simple.
When we put our catalog out the 1st of October.
That took effect here 1st of January.
It was roughly a 5% increase in spares prices.
And as you know that typically sticks.
But especially at Pratt you've got a big chunk of the business that's on long-term maintenance program.
So they don't actually realize that full 5% it's more like 3% or so they'll probably realize net.
Hamilton will get a little bit more even though again the percentage of theirs is on a long-term agreements.
On the commercial side pricing remains difficult at Otis on the OE side.
It's true in China it's true in Europe and it's true here in the U.S.
And again that's the price impression that we talked about and why you're going to see margin deterioration at Otis in 2012 on higher new equipment just the pricing is very tough.
Carrier is a little better story.
Carrier actually did increase prices back in I think October again as commodities started to spike.
We've seen that stick.
In fact there was no commodity impact in the fourth quarter because of pricing offsets.
And I think again for the full year 2012 we expect a similar story not a lot of commodity headwinds.
So it should be a again the residential side despite of a poor market everybody has the same input costs.
We've said this before.
I mean copper is an input compressors are an input a little bit on the steel and everybody feels the same pressure.
So again I think as the market remains disciplined we're able to realize those price increases.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But on Otis are you seeing more competitive intensity on the OE side? How does it changed? I don't think there's any change really this is for the last 8 quarters I think since we saw the downturn in 2009.
We've continued to see very aggressive pricing from all the competitors.
Be it Kone Oyj or in Schindler or all of the Chinese competitors.
It's a very very competitive OE market.
I'll point out Otis continues to have sound margins because we can leverage scale.
And that's the beauty of Otis right? Big big factories leverage scale in the factories leverage scale on the supply chains.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then if I can have one more on Fire &amp; Security.
When you talk about shaping the portfolio can you define what is core in Fire &amp; Security? You've got a wide spectrum of businesses there.
How do you think about what the core part is and where there might be opportunities to shape it? I think as you think about the Fire &amp; Security portfolio I think there were 61 acquisitions that we did since 2003.
Obviously I think some of the Fire &amp; Security products are probably turning out to be much better than some of the installation businesses out of the security side.
So I can't tell you which businesses we might divest.
I will tell you that we're going to look at those business that have a good long-term growth prospects and have scale.
In the U.S.
not much scale on the installation side.
We like the Fire business.
It's a lot like Otis.
It's about life safety and that's what drives growth long term there drives good margins.
So I would tell you Fire is core and we'll take a look at the rest of it.
I still don't want to get ahead of ourselves here because we've some good service and installation businesses around the world that performed very well.
There's some that don't perform as well.
So to make sure all we just need is to determine whether or not they're fixable and what the long-term growth prospects are before we make any decision.
Okay.
Well I want to thank everybody for listening on the call.
We've got good momentum going into 2012 and we've got the transformational deals out there.
The goal at UTC as always we focus on what we control and we outperform peers.
So with that I look forward to seeing everybody on the 15th of March and Maria [ph] and Josh will be around to take your calls afterwards.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
That concludes the presentation.
You may disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies First Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Maria Lee [ph] Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTC's website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and onetime items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectation and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTC's SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Okay thank you Stephanie and good morning to everyone.
As you saw in the press release this morning first quarter earnings per share were up 24% year-over-year to $1.31.
That includes $0.21 of gain in excess of restructuring.
Excluding these items for both years earnings per share grew 2% to $1.10 which is a little better than we expected back in March.
Keep in mind these results include $0.13 per share of headwind from higher pension costs higher E&amp;D and negative FX.
Stronger sales in our U.S.
Residential HVAC business towards the end of the quarter drove better-than-expected operating profit at UTC Climate Controls &amp; Security.
On the other hand while we know the urbanization trend will drive continued long-term growth as we said in March our business in China is off to a slow start.
Otis new equipment sales in China were down 9% in constant currency in the first quarter.
The ongoing government effort to bring housing prices down has negatively impacted the higher end of the residential sector which represents about half of Otis' China sales.
We've also seen some pricing pressure in China and a temporary impact as a result of the Beijing Metro incident last year.
We've addressed the root cause of the incident and we're confident it's been corrected.
As we all know the global economy remains uneven.
We have seen some encouraging signs in the U.S.
over the past few months with an increase in residential construction and an improvement in consumer confidence.
However with continued weakness in Europe and the short-term slowdown in construction activity in China we'll continue to focus on what we control as we usually do.
In the quarter we invested $111 million in restructuring and the businesses continue to find ways to reduce structural costs.
As a result we're taking up our estimate for restructuring for the year to $450 million including the Goodrich-related restructuring actions.
That's up $100 million from our expectations in March.
We also continue the process of evaluating and reshaping the UTC portfolio to position the company for long-term sustainable growth.
And just as we did through the 2008 2009 recession we continue to invest in E&amp;D spending an incremental $77 million or $0.06 a share in the first quarter over the prior years as we continue to develop innovative technologies like the GTF and S-97 RAIDER that will give us a sustainable competitive advantage and deliver real value to the customers.
So despite the uneven economic outlook we remain confident in the full year expectations for earnings per share of $5.30 to $5.50.
That's 0% to 4% growth on sales of $61 billion to $62 billion and that guidance includes the sales impact in net $0.25 EPS dilution from the proposed Goodrich acquisition which we still expect to close at mid-year.
As you heard from the business unit presidents in March much of the operating profit growth will come in the back half of the year.
As the year progresses we'll see more normal year-on-year comparisons across our businesses and we believe that the Chinese government will continue to pull back on some of the tightening measures which should lead to improvement in the high-end residential construction market in China.
Okay turning to first quarter results on Slide 2.
Total sales were down 2%.
Organic sales growth was 1% and in line with our expectations after a strong 9% organic growth in the first quarter of last year.
Hamilton Sundstrand led the way this quarter with 10% organic revenue growth on strength in both commercial and military aerospace.
Sikorsky sales on the other hand were down 15% organically following 15% growth on the first quarter of last year due to the absence of international development aircraft as well as lower-than-expected shipments at the end of the quarter.
Total segment operating profit was down 2% driven by the commercial businesses.
The slow start in China and ongoing weakness in the European markets drove Otis' operating profit down 6% on flat sales.
UTC Climate Controls &amp; Security's operating profit was down 5%.
In March you'll recall we had expected CCS to be down around 10% after 70% growth in the first quarter of last year but a strong rebound in residential cooling orders at the end of the quarter provided some unexpected upside.
Hamilton Sundstrand had another strong quarter with 15% operating profit growth from solid conversion on organic sales growth.
Segment operating margins were down 10 basis points.
A continued focus on cost reduction and productivity nearly offset the $0.13 of headwind we talked about from E&amp;D pension and FX and about half of that headwind is actually in Pratt's results for the quarter.
As I mentioned earnings per share were $1.31.
That's up 24%.
A $0.23 gain from the 2006 through 2008 tax settlements and a $0.16 gain from the sale of a controlling interest in a CCS joint venture was partially offset by $0.09 of restructuring $0.08 of impairment on assets held for sale at CCS and an additional $0.01 for the legal reserve for the previously disclosed export licensing compliance matters.
Excluding restructuring in all these onetime items in both years earnings per share grew 2%.
As I said FX had a negative impact of $0.02 in the quarter.
On top of that deal cost from the Goodrich acquisition was an additional $0.02 of headwind.
Free cash flow in the quarter was 95% of net income.
As you saw in the press release net income also had the benefit of noncash items so once again very strong free cash flow generation as you've come to expect.
We spent $72 million on acquisitions in the quarter and there is no share repurchase.
You'll recall we decided to suspend share buyback last September as a result of the Goodrich transaction.
With our domestic pension plan 90% funded at a discount rate of 4.6% there will be no additional contributions to the domestic pension plans in 2012.
Slide 3 now on orders briefly.
You see selected order trends.
Pratt &amp; Whitney large commercial engines spare orders were actually down 3% following the 33% growth in last year's first quarter.
Hamilton Sundstrand's commercial spares were up 1% with strength in 787 initial provisioning and this follows 23% growth in the first quarter of 2011.
Obviously tough compares but still confident in our outlook for the year.
We're keeping a close eye on oil prices due to the impact on airline profitability.
Of course on the flip side of these higher oil prices this just enhances the value of the GTF offering which will provide a 16% better fuel efficiency than current engine design.
On CCS North American Residential HVAC orders were up 10%.
It's obviously better than we expected with a robust activity late in the quarter.
At Otis new equipment orders were down 10% at constant currency.
Otis' new equipment orders in China contracted 21% at constant currency after growing 7% in the fourth quarter.
And we continue to believe in our emerging market strategies which allow us to leverage our worldwide scale to deliver innovative products in a cost-efficient way and deliver real value to our customers from Mumbai to Chengdu to So Paulo.
We continue to see strong but moderating growth in these emerging markets consistent with our expectations and of course well ahead of the growth rates in the developed markets.
Although China orders were down 15% in the quarter across UTC we saw a good traction in the other BRIC markets with Brazil Russia and India each up over 20% in the quarter.
So the first quarter results a little better than we expected from what we told you just a few weeks ago.
I'll come back and talk about the year a little bit more detail but first let me turn it over to Maria [ph] to take you through the business unit results.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 4.
At Otis operating profit was down 6% in the quarter on flat sales.
Operating margin was 21.4% 140 basis points lower than prior year.
Foreign currency translation reduced both sales and profit growth by about 1 point.
At constant currency new equipment sales were flat as a 9% decline in China was offset by continued growth in other emerging markets.
On the same basis service sales were up led by growth in modernization and contractual maintenance.
Pricing pressure in Europe higher commodity costs and a slow start in China more than offset the benefits of cost reduction action in the quarter.
At constant currency new equipment orders were down 10% with China down 21%.
Consistent with guidance from the March Analyst Meeting we expect the new equipment market in China to be up low- to mid-single digits for the year.
Otis will aggressively pursue restructuring actions this year.
Otis' full year guidance of $50 million to $75 million of profit growth on mid-single-digit sales growth assumes savings from further cost reductions as well as improvement in the top line especially in China for the balance of the year.
On Slide 5 UTC Climate Controls &amp; Security profit contracted 5% in the quarter on 6% lower sales resulting in margin of 11.4% up 20 basis points from prior year.
Organic sales were up 1% following 12% growth in the first quarter of last year.
Mid-single-digit organic growth in Europe and automation and controls businesses was partially offset by modest contraction in Asia and Transicold as well as the impact of our Thailand factory which resumed operations in March.
As Greg mentioned better-than-expected profit performance was driven by strong U.S.
Residential HVAC orders in the second half of March.
This drove low-single-digit growth in split systems unit shipments for the quarter as CCS benefited from warmer-than-normal temperatures across much of the U.S.
About half of the $25 million year-over-year profit decline is driven by the absence of a gain on the sale of the U.K.
guarding business last year.
The balance is largely in the Americas business primarily lower furnace volume.
For the full year CCS continues to expect operating profit growth of about $225 million on 4% organic sales growth but given the recently announced portfolio transactions reported sales will be down low single digits.
Turning to aerospace on Slide 6.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney sales were up 6% in the first quarter including 1 point of unfavorable currency at Pratt Canada.
Sales growth was driven by higher Military and Pratt Canada engine sales and higher industrial volume at Power Systems and was partially offset by lower commercial aftermarket and engine deliveries.
Large commercial spares were down 4% year-over-year.
Operating profit in the quarter was down 1%.
Higher E&amp;D pension costs and unfavorable currency at Pratt Canada were partially offset by the benefit of net higher sales and restructuring savings as well as the benefit from a contract termination of about $0.02.
For the full year we continue to expect Pratt &amp; Whitney operating profit to be down $25 million to $50 million on high single-digit sales growth.
Hamilton Sundstrand posted a strong quarter with profit growth of 15% on 9% higher sales.
Sales growth came from both OEM and aftermarket each up high single digits.
787 provisioning sales drove the aftermarket growth.
Profit growth in the quarter was driven by the benefits of increased aftermarket volume and lower E&amp;D.
This was partially offset by higher pension costs.
Operating margin was up 90 basis points year-over-year to 16.2%.
For the full year we continue to expect Hamilton Sundstrand's operating profit to be up $75 million to $100 million and sales up high single digits.
Turning to Sikorsky on Slide 8.
Operating profit declined by 2% on 15% lower sales.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 39 aircraft.
34 aircraft were based on military platforms and 5 commercial.
Sales were lower driven by 19 fewer aircraft deliveries including the absence of international development aircraft and lower U.S.
government deliveries.
On profit benefit from strong aftermarket performance and the absence of one Canadian Maritime Helicopter was offset by lower military aircraft deliveries and higher E&amp;D spend.
Of note during the quarter Sikorsky signed a contract with Bond Aviation Group for 16 firm S-92 helicopters marking the largest onetime order of S-92 aircraft ever received.
For the full year we continue to expect profit growth of approximately $50 million to $75 million on mid-single-digit sales decline.
With that let me turn it over to Greg for wrap-up.
Okay thank you Maria [ph].
But before we get into the full year let me just give you an update on some of the other activities going on at UTC and there is a lot of things going on.
And so the good news is they're all on track.
Our 2 new organizations CCS and PAS are both in place and we're encouraged by the results so far.
First at CCS Climate Controls &amp; Security Geraud and the team are progressing well with the integration of our new organization and they've begun the portfolio transformation of the legacy Fire &amp; Security business with the divestiture of the U.S.
branch operations announced earlier this month.
CCS has also formed a joint venture with Watsco for distribution in Canada building on our successful partnership in the United States.
All of this comes while CCS continues to innovate and produce the most efficient solutions for both our residential and commercial customers.
On the aerospace side Alain and the team at Propulsion and Aerospace systems continue to make great progress on the Goodrich integration planning.
We've also fine-tuned our financing plan reducing the need for an equity issuance from $4 billion to only $1.5 billion.
And we've made good progress on the divestitures that we announced last month and we're on track to complete these divestitures before year end.
Whereas proceeds from these divestitures will help finance the Goodrich acquisition and more importantly allow us to focus on our core business of aerospace and commercial buildings.
We expect to sign a contract shortly for Rocketdyne and initial bids show a very strong interest for the industrial businesses.
As you saw on the press release this morning we recorded charges in the first quarter in discontinued operations but we expect net gains for the full year as the sale of these businesses is completed.
Okay.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney in the quarter we secured an additional 156 firm orders for the A320 engine.
The GTF engine continues to validate performance characteristics in testing with now over 2 100 hours complete and the first flight of the Mitsubishi Regional Jet engine scheduled for later this month.
So a good progress in our new organization and we continue to execute on the transformational changes to the UTC portfolio.
As for the outlook for 2012 we remain confident in our guidance of $5.30 to $5.50.
That's 0% to 4% growth as I said on sales of $61 billion to $62 billion including Goodrich.
Q1 was a little better than expected but as we told you most of the operating profit growth will still be in the back half.
Sikorsky shipments are weighted towards the back half with about 1/3 in the first half and 2/3 in the back half.
CCS faces easier compares and will realize more benefit from the integration and portfolio transformation.
At Otis still expects improvement in the new equipment market as the year progresses.
As for other elements of our guidance we have visibility of an additional $100 million of gains so we now expect $600 million for the full year.
And we expect the excess of $0.21 gain from the first quarter will be offset in the back half of the year with restructuring in both Goodrich and the core business.
We expect engineering development to increase by about $150 million primarily at Pratt &amp; Whitney.
And our first quarter operational tax rate came in right where we expected at 32% and we continue to expect an operational tax rate for full year of 29.5% although of course there's volatility across the quarters.
On cash flow we continue to expect free cash flow to equal or exceed net income for the full year.
With our transformational deals the new organization industry-leading franchises and a sustained focus on structural cost reduction we are well-positioned for long-term earnings growth.
With that let me stop and open up the call for questions.
Stephanie? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research.
Greg can you give us a little more color on where you're actually going after the additional restructuring with the gains that you're finding and some color on kind of resulting benefits from restructuring in 2012 and 2013? Yes I think we did about $111 million of restructuring I think in the first quarter.
That really was spread out.
With Otis there was about $28 million; CCS about $35 million; Pratt $37 million; and a little bit of Sikorsky and Hamilton.
I think you're going to continue to see spending in those 3 businesses primarily.
Certainly as Geraud continues with the CCS portfolio transformation you're going to see additional restructuring actions there.
Otis again continues to look for ways to reduce some structural costs so I think you'll see additional restructuring at Otis and the same at Pratt &amp; Whitney.
So I think the 3 big businesses will probably get the bulk of it.
And also keep in mind there'll probably $150 million of restructuring associated with the Goodrich acquisition.
So again that's all back half.
Should we expect those restructuring costs to pay back in similar dollars into 2013 or what's the payback look like? The payback on the programs that we're looking at today are between 1 and 2 years.
I think some of the -- the Goodrich payback will be very quick and will be SG&amp;A overhead as we eliminate some duplicative functions.
Some of the bigger restructuring as we're looking at capacity will take a little bit longer.
But I'll tell you usually 1 and 2 years is the average payback we're seeing.
Some of it -- some of the quicker SG&amp;A stuff like we did at CCS earlier this year again we're seeing that benefit this year.
And you recall as Geraud's roadmap to $225 million had savings in there from restructuring in it.
Right.
And can you elaborate a little bit more on the magnitude of price pressure at Otis and is there any way to kind of measure how significant kind of the fallout on the Metro accident actually has been? And are you confident that that cloud is fully lifted at this point? Well let's talk about pricing first then we can touch on the Beijing Metro.
I think last year in July we saw the spike in rare earth metals in China and Otis I think reacted very quickly to try and raise prices.
In fact I think we raised prices about 5% last July.
Unfortunately that price increase did not get much traction in the market and in fact resulted in some of the declines that we've seen in orders even into the first quarter of this year.
One of the things that Pedro and team are doing right now is going back and relooking at pricing.
Obviously the headwind from the rare earths has abated.
So I think there is a good case to be made there to adjust pricing but it certainly hurt in the last quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year.
The Beijing Metro incident again I think that's behind us.
Again it was a tragic accident.
I think everybody is aware of an escalator incident in Beijing.
Again we've been working with the Beijing government.
Again I hope that's behind us.
It's one of these difficult things obviously when you have an accident it gets that kind of visibility.
But we're doing the right things in terms of working with the customers and working to make sure that the brand has not been damaged in any way.
The other thing you keep in mind I think in terms of the Otis China situation in the quarter and even into last year is the mix issue.
Again we are strongest in the residential construction market.
And obviously where the growth is coming is primarily in the social side where we're not as strong so been hurt by mix we've been hurt by pricing and hurt a little bit by this Beijing Metro.
So again all of its correctable.
I think as the year progresses we expect to have better results in China plus you're going to see some of the tightening measures loosen there to again hopefully improve the outlook to get back to kind of a more normal growth rate.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol from the JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question is on drilling down to Otis.
Just I want to drill down a little bit more into these margins which were a bit below our number and certainly I think below where they've been for a few years on a quarterly basis.
And sales were flat overall for the business and the mix from a service and OE standpoint even improved a little bit.
I understand China is good margin on the OE side.
But Greg is there any way of -- maybe I don't know explain a little bit more clearly what's happening there? And if you think maybe this is a blip this quarter or we should maybe expect margins to come off a little bit from what we've used to expect -- used to expecting here? Yes margins are still pretty good.
I'll give you that but they were down 140 basis points.
I think yes there are really 2 big pieces here to the margin decline.
First of all we saw commodities and this is as we continue to bleed off the inventory some of these rare metals you saw about what 60 basis points I think of margin deterioration just from commodity at the quarter so that's a big number.
The other -- another 40 basis points of contraction came from the pricing that we talked about so that's really the biggest piece of this.
And we're also -- we're continuing to make investments around the world.
We're continuing to build out the CLC in Shanghai and as well as consolidated the factory down in South Carolina.
So just some unusual expenses.
So I'd expect again margin should get better but certainly we're not really surprised that we're contracted in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And so the margin erosion was exclusively on the OE side and service margins were flat or up a little bit? No.
In fact a little bit of that pricing that we talked about actually came on the service side and most of that came in Europe where we continue to see a little bit of pricing pressure on service I think Pedro mentioned that back in March.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then switching over to CCS.
So I guess the reduction in the sales expectation is due to the divestiture you announced.
What exactly is in there now for incremental divestitures over the remainder of the year? And then additionally within the same segment there was a nice surprise in -- I guess in the second half of March.
You got a nice surge of orders in U.S.
residential.
How much can we read through for the season and for Q2 specifically and how much might this continue? Let me take the second part of that question first which is the res market improvement.
Obviously we stood up in March and we talked about CCS being down about 10% in earnings after being up 70% last year.
Actually came in only down about 5% and that was really on the back of this surge in orders that we saw in the residential side and really on the cooling side.
Yes I think orders were down in the first 2 months of the quarter and then really came back so I think overall res orders were about -- up about 10% and we think cooling was up almost 19% in the quarter.
So again all of that strength really came in the back half.
Obviously there is no heating season so there's not much to talk about on the heating side.
So again I think we picked up a little bit of share maybe in the quarter on really a strong rebound.
I guess it's not surprising.
Again we did see a pickup in the residential construction markets in the first quarter with the warm weather.
It was a pleasant surprise.
As far as the year in terms of what's in I don't know Maria [ph] do have the...
So yes we have -- the organic growth for CCS remains about 4%.
So the -- yes 4% growth.
FX probably account for about a 2% headwind and then acquisitions net is probably about 5% to 6% on sales.
Research Division</strong> And what do you have done right now in terms of the deals you've already announced how much would that reduce sales at this point? So the AFSS announcement was about $200 million for the rest of the year divestiture impact and the Canadian distribution was about $100 million.
So that's about $300 million incrementally from what we would have had in the prior guidance and that's included in the sort of 4% 5% acquisition divestiture net.
So yes we talked about $750 million of divestitures around this portfolio transformation.
We're getting towards that number but we still have a little ways to go.
So there's probably another $250 million or so that might get divested.
We just won't see a full year impact of that.
We'll be out in front of that with you Joe as we get those deals done.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Question back on -- clarification I guess on the CCS business.
The divestiture lowered sales expectation for the year.
You left EBIT intact.
Is that having the resi upper in there or were the divestitures not really contributing? Divestitures weren't really contributing.
Yes we're still on track I think for res in terms of sales up about 3% to 5% and the guidance is still up $225 million.
And I would tell you the res although was good for the end of March into early April here we don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves with the cooling season here.
We saw this play out last year.
We had a very strong first quarter and then a slowdown throughout the year.
So right now the $225 million is still the guidance and there is still a task out there to hit even that number and Geraud has got line of sight to do that through additional restructuring.
If there is some upside related to the res business we'll certainly see that in the next quarter here.
But for right now I think we're not anticipating any big upsurge beyond that 3% to 5% that we talked about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other one was on Otis in terms of the full year outlook for sales.
Can you talk about what you're expecting for Otis versus the market and if there's any share gain built into your expectation and kind of how were you in the first quarter? And if you didn't have a share gain what would that mean to kind of the EBIT outlook? Yes I think in the quarter obviously sales were flattish with earnings down 6% and we probably lost a little bit of share in China probably held share around the rest of the world.
Clearly we're expecting to get a little bit of traction.
I think we have new equipment up in the mid-single digits from a guidance standpoint.
And that assumes again a little bit of improvement here in North America flat in Europe and normal kind of growth rates around the rest of the world.
So a little bit of share loss in the first quarter but yes we're expecting we'll get that back as the year progresses.
And one more thing just specifically on that China market.
I think we talked about the pressure that we're seeing on the high-end residential side.
And we think that was sort of down double digits in the quarter.
And we do think that that will likely with the pullback on some of the tightening measures with the China government that will likely not be down as much for the year.
So that would help the overall market in China improve.
Our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr from Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So could you give us some more color on the spares orders at Pratt and Hamilton Sundstrand? How -- were they at all impacted by kind of prebuying in the fourth quarter? And maybe some color on what you're seeing here in the early days of April.
Yes spares Cai as I said we were down 3% at Pratt after being up 33% last year in the first quarter.
So in my own view it's just a tough compare.
We seem to -- we're on track we think at Pratt for kind of mid-single-digit growth in spares for the year.
I think we've got line of sight to that based upon the shop visits that are scheduled and our talks dealings with the airlines.
So again first quarter was tough.
Again part of this again you never know how much prebuy goes on at the end of the year with price increases so first quarter sometimes light.
But yes I think we're pretty much on track at Pratt.
At Hamilton again up 1% versus 23% last year in the first quarter so again a very tough compare.
Repair inputs were actually down a little bit in the quarter more than expected so that's just a timing issue.
We still know that flight hours are way up.
The RPMs are up ASMs are up and capacity is up.
So the airlines are still making money despite the oil prices where they are.
So we're going to see the repairs come in at Hamilton.
And yes I think we've got up nearly 10% in the expectation for spares and part of that will be the benefit from additional 787 provisioning which continues to be robust as well as a recovery I think in this repair activity.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so some of that really looks like it was just largely timing then.
Yes I believe it is.
LLC Research Division</strong> R&amp;D was up year-over-year.
I guess you're going kind of at your annualized run rate.
Is there anything in terms of the timing there? Is that going to be flat throughout the year or how should we think about that? So if you think about it we were up $77 million in the quarter and a little more than $50 million of that was at Pratt and really Pratt is now on the run rate that we expect for the rest of the year.
You recall we had a slow start to last year but eventually they were up more than $225 million in E&amp;D.
So this is really just getting Pratt on the run rate so you'll see the increases slow down.
Obviously the $150 million expectation of increase half of it was in the first quarter.
So again you'll see a little bit more increase in the second and then flat now towards the back half of the year.
And keep in mind the CSeries engine should be certified by the fourth quarter so there'll be a step-down in spending there making good progress on the other engines as well.
So again this is the peak year for engineering spending at Pratt &amp; Whitney.
I know Mr.
Bellemare Mr.
Hess are keenly aware of the commitment to you all to make sure that this is the peak year and that still should be the case.
LLC Research Division</strong> Last quick one Goodrich you said you still expect to close at mid-year.
And yet given that the EC is gone into Phase 2 I mean is it maybe more likely that mid-year would be late July or early August which is still near mid-year? Maybe you can update us there.
Yes.
I really can't comment Cai on where we are with the regulators.
We're obviously working with the DOJ.
We're working with the EU and we believe we're still on track and I said mid-year.
Whether that's plus or minus a couple of weeks I couldn't handicap at that closely.
But I would tell you we're still highly confident that we're on track for -- to close the deal.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Couple quick ones.
One a sort of point of clarification on Joe's question relating to the Otis margins.
I guess so you called out 40 bps of headwind from pricing and 60 bps from the rare earth impact.
But given that they were down a little bit more it sort of implies a profit differential in China versus the other emerging markets that you called out that were growing that would be pretty substantial.
Is that right? How big should we be thinking the margin differential is between China and the rest of the BRIC countries? The margins in China are probably -- they're comparable to overall Otis margins.
Again it's mostly a new equipment business there.
If you think about it earnings in China were obviously adversely affected and hurt margin as we lost some sales.
Again sales were down 9% in the quarter.
So that obviously had an impact but I wouldn't diminish the impact of what's going on in Europe either with a very slow start there on the service side.
So yes there's really -- it's Europe and China I would say are the 2 pieces of the puzzle here in terms of where we saw the earnings decline and the margin decline.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on Pratt you called out a favorable contract termination.
I presume that helped the margins in the quarter.
Can you quantify how big that may have been in Q1? Yes it's about $0.01.
$0.02 I'm sorry it's about $0.02.
Research Division</strong> Okay and one last quick one on the 787 initial provisioning for Hamilton.
Do you have a sense of how much that's contributing to your full year growth guidance for spares at Hamilton? The 787 provisioning? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes I think it's -- last year we contributed about I don't know let's say $70 million of provisioning benefit last year from 787.
We probably expect a similar amount this year so it's a meaningful piece of the growth year-over-year.
Our next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Greg can you go through in terms of Otis for the rest of the year when you think about getting to your numbers can you break it out a little bit kind of between this high-end resi piece the public housing piece and commercial and just give kind of a sense of what you expect for the different components? Yes I think what we would expect as again we said the social housing piece we continue to see decent growth in that market in the first quarter.
We would expect to see the residential pick up in the second quarter from what we saw in the first quarter.
And the commercial side is really -- it's slowing growth but still growing.
Really this is really a story about the residential kind of the high-end residential.
And as the government there has started to ease and we have seen prices come down in the market we continue to expect again the growth will come during the back half of the year probably not going to see a lot of growth here in the second quarter.
But again as the year progresses we should see good growth.
And again China it's a huge market for us.
Obviously most of the growth is starting to come now in the western part of the countries in places like Chengdu and Chongqing and all of those and we've got good positions there.
We've got the new Gen2 low-cost elevator in our factory in Chongqing that's going to be opening later this year which should again provide some emphasis for growth and to help us attack even more of the low-end social housing.
Research Division</strong> And I mean in terms of the higher-end resi piece I mean are you seeing any evidence of this loosening starting to feed through yet? And I guess if it doesn't -- if not I mean is there sort of a Plan B? Yes I would tell you right now we have not seen much of an impact.
Again we still see prices I think last month were down about 1%.
We think we saw the loosening start in the first quarter.
We expect that's going to continue but we really don't expect to see any significant movement in the market really until the second half.
If that doesn't happen obviously there is a risk to Otis' guidance for the full year.
I think about first quarter we're down 6%.
For the full year we're talking about $50 million to $75 million.
So there's obviously some need for improvement as we go throughout the year.
Overall though again all of the risk out there in Otis I think is more than covered by what we have in terms of the contingency at UTC level.
So we're still highly confident in the guidance.
Even if Otis China doesn't recover as fast as we expect it's still should not be an issue at the UTC level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just I maybe have missed it did you go through the -- what commercial equipment and container actually did in the quarter truck/trailer and some of the subcomponents of carrier? We did not.
No.
We did not.
So it's from -- let's see if you look at commercial HVAC orders let's see for new equipment overall they were up high single digits at constant currency with North America up about 20%.
That continues to be strong.
EMEA up low single digits and Asia down mid single digits so that's commercial HVAC.
Did you also ask about the other pieces Transicold? Yes so Transicold.
Yes Transicold transport refrigeration as expected that was down about 15% kind of mid-teens range as we had expected.
Again weakness there was primarily in Europe truck/trailer as the European economy continues to sputter.
I think one of the good news pieces on commercial refrigeration we actually saw some decent kind of sales growth so up high teens organically which was good news.
Also on the ACS business the automated controls business that was up revenues kind of high single digit.
So a little bit of weakness at Transicold as we had expected but pretty good on the commercial HVAC and strength in ACS and refrigeration.
Our next question comes from David Strauss from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Greg CCS obviously outperformed the bid in the first quarter down on the operating profit side down about 5% and I think you had said down 10% to 15%.
You had said you guys had talked about a flat first half.
Is that what you're still looking at or is the second quarter a little bit better? So I think the second -- yes we have said a flat first half with first quarter down 10%.
Now with first quarter only down about 5% I think second quarter will continue as we had expected which means it will actually start growing earnings in the second quarter so a little bit better first half than what we had expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay sorry to go back to Otis China but I guess a couple of questions.
First of all the down 9 on new equipment how did that compare to your expectations for the first quarter? And then looking at comps it looks like the comps are very difficult for China in new equipment in the second and third quarter and the even in the fourth quarter.
Is that correct? Yes that's right.
I think we saw in the second and third quarter last year was like 20% 30% growth then it slowed down to about 7% growth in orders in the fourth quarter of last year.
As far as our expectation obviously we came in a little light to expectations in the first quarter down 9% on orders that were down 21%.
We went into the year with a strong backlog up about 20% year-over-year.
But again with these slowing measures out there what are seeing is that just deferral and delay in some of the shipments from the factories to the job sites.
So a little disappointing there from what we had originally expected.
But again it's only one quarter so I'm not going to get too excited about it.
Research Division</strong> So based on the tough Q2 comps is it fair to assume that China new equipment would be down and your expectation is down again in the second quarter? Well I think just based on the order rates that we saw in the first quarter and the comps that you have to last year you're probably going to see a pretty tough compare.
I don't know that we have a really solid estimate for second quarter in terms of the shipments.
But I would think just from 50 000 feet it's going to be tough with the order rates where they were in the first quarter.
Our next question comes from Terry Darling from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Greg maybe just a couple of clarifications.
When you're talking about commercial HVAC up high single digits was that revenues or was that orders? That was actually both.
Research Division</strong> For both.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- back in the Pratt spares are you expecting that to turn around in 2Q? I guess we're picking up a little bit of some European OEMs destocking.
Maybe that has to do with the cadence of other OEMs we're thinking of in that context in terms of their pricing and you're not seeing the same thing.
But sounded like you hadn't changed your full year forecast and just wondering what the confidence is behind that.
Yes I think the order rates we look at them every week.
Pratt probably looks at them every day continue -- it's lumpy.
First quarter we started out strong in January then it slowed down a little bit.
But overall again I think what you're going to see as the year progresses the compares get a lot easier.
I think we are up about 22% in the second quarter last year 33% in the first and then it slowed down in the back half.
So I think what you're going to naturally see is as the year progresses the comps get easier.
We ought to be able to pretty easily hit that kind of 5% growth rate in spares at Pratt.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And sorry to jump back to CCS here I forgot one there.
And that's just do you have an organic all-in on the old carrier and old Fire &amp; Security basis as we used to know it? I don't.
I think we've given you most of the elements there.
I'll tell you the one piece we probably didn't talk about was fire products.
That was up globally about 5% in orders.
Now the fire service in Europe that was actually down a little bit down mostly in Northern Europe and offset by a little bit of strength in Southern Europe surprisingly.
I think the business in the U.K.
continues to stabilize still not fixed but at least it's not continuing down.
So again I think pretty much on track with where we expect it to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Greg anything else you'd want to highlight on 2Q either from the standpoint of Sikorsky shipments or tax rate? Anything else you want to call out there? We're going to -- I think gains will equal restructuring here in the second quarter.
We've got a line of sight and some additional gains.
I think the tax rate will be about what we had forecast for the full year.
You're not going to see like the first quarter we had a higher rate.
Other than that I think it's going to be a solid second quarter.
Again the trends that we saw in the first quarter at Sikorsky should get a little bit better.
Keep in mind though at Sikorsky I think we had shipped 90 helicopters in the first half and so almost twice that in the second half of the year.
So still a little bumpy down at Sikorsky in the second quarter.
In Otis again we should see a recovery again.
I talked about the CCS before you're getting good traction.
In Pratt and Hamilton again pretty much on track with what we saw in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And sorry one more in the weeds here.
On the North America Resi HVAC order strength are you confident that pricing on that unit acceleration is at a level that is tracking in line with your profit expectations? I guess we're picking up a little in the channel some price discounting going on by a number of OEMs on that volume lift in March.
Actually we did not see that.
In fact we raised prices last October in the res market and that price is pretty well stuck.
Again we raised on the back of commodity prices.
We're actually seeing good pricing trend.
And the inventory in the channel was really well going into the year so some of this is restocking.
But we're also seeing some good sell-through from distribution out to the field so we have not seen much pricing pressure this year at Carrier.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Greg could you talk about cash a little bit and where you're going? Could you kind of touch base on your line of sight to funding Goodrich? How do you feel today versus earlier in the year? We feel really good Howard.
I think we've got line of sight to -- on the financing.
We're looking at rates today and the 10-year treasury less than 2 looks pretty attractive.
And I think the financing plan that we've laid out we're not going to have any trouble in the marketplace absent some big macro event.
But that's why you have the bridge in place just in case.
But I think we feel really good about the ability to place the debt and the rating which we're going to be able to place that debt so I feel very good.
Cash in the quarter was strong.
If you think about -- we have these couple of noncash gains.
You need take those out we're over 120% of free cash flow of net income.
So the business continues to generate solid cash.
Without share buyback of course the business' funding is really pretty robust.
So I don't see any issue at all going to market here in the second quarter ahead of the deal to replace all this debt.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So have you brought the cash back from Europe yet or wherever to fund part of transaction or is that TBD? No I think all the cash movement will happen this part of the deal or towards the end of the years we'll use some of the international cash obviously from the IAE transactions as well which is also scheduled to close mid-year.
But a lot of moving pieces and you'll see us in the debt markets here shortly well at least probably a few 3 4 weeks ahead of whenever we think Goodrich is going to close.
So I think that's all good news and international cash flow we'll access what we need to throughout the back half of the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then the other item as I recall on the March 13 Analyst Day Mr.
Pino addressed the Canadian helicopter item as just a small software glitch and yet we're still not seeing deliveries of that helicopter.
Could you bring us up to date on where you are with that program please? Yes so the CMH I think we're going to deliver 5 helicopters this year.
We've got a couple of the interim configuration to deliver yet and then we'll actually have final configuration helicopters towards the end of the year.
Of course we'll deliver the bulk of those helicopters next year.
The plan was always to deliver these things in the second half of the year.
I think one may have slipped from June to July but I think we're still on track on the interim version.
And then the final version the final software configuration version we're still working that to get those out before the end of the year to meet the contractual commitment to the customers.
So again we're on track.
We're working with the customer all the time.
The helicopter continues to perform well.
It's a great helicopter.
We have flight testing.
No issues with the air frame.
This really is just about the mission equipment as Jeff talked about.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just following on that I mean as you talked about readjusting the portfolio in some cases you'll sell things like Rocketdyne but then you're investing money in Eclipse.
Can you sort of explain how you're making some of these portfolio decisions? Can I make it very clear we're not investing any more money in Eclipse.
We bought -- we did make a small investment less than $25 million in Eclipse really to service the aftermarket of the aircraft.
I think there's about 300 of those airplanes that have been delivered.
But we are not in the light jet business if you will.
We're in the aftermarket business supporting the planes that are out there.
But we're not in the manufacturing business for light jets.
So again I think if that's -- we haven't made that clear before? Inc.
Research Division</strong> You made it crystal.
It's crystal.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> You talked about the additional restructuring and onetime items.
You mentioned Q2 that they're going to line up.
Can you just talk about how those progressed through the year if there's any other mismatches? Yes what's really happened that $0.21 of net good news that we saw in the first quarter that will play out in the third and fourth quarter.
A big chunk of that actually is going to be third quarter as we start to accrue some of the restructuring related to the Goodrich acquisition and the remainder will be in the fourth quarter.
I can't give you an exact number today quarter-to-quarter -- third quarter versus fourth quarter but as we get towards the end of the second quarter and we get to the close of Goodrich and we know exactly what the restructuring dollars are we'll lay all that out for everybody.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then on CCS you talked about the container move in the Europe.
Has there been any improvement from this point forward just because I think that was the number for the year was about down 10% for container.
Should we see growth in future quarters now? I think again the compares will get easier as we go throughout the year on containers so we should see a little bit of improvement.
I think what we were down low single digits I guess in terms of actual shipments in the quarter but down mid-teens in terms of the orders.
So again we should see a little bit of an improvement as we go throughout the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right and then just on the Pratt aftermarket how much of that 5% growth is from the IAE joint venture versus the organic side of the business? That's actually -- that's all organic.
That does not include the IAE transaction.
Our next question comes from George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
I wanted to ask Coney had orders up 27% in the quarter versus you're down 10%.
Greg do you think that's all due to the mix issue you talked about in China or is something else going on or haven't you looked at the numbers yet? I just -- as we were coming down this morning I saw the Coney report come across the board.
I haven't really had a chance to study or talk to the folks about it at Otis but I think it's really -- it's to all those issues that we talked about with China in terms of the pricing the mix that we saw over there.
So I think again we obviously lost a little bit of share.
I think Coney had a pretty good quarter it looks like from an order perspective in China.
Okay and then just the book-to-bill at Hamilton and Pratt I know you gave the spares in orders but without knowing the exact numbers how were the book-to-bill numbers in the quarter? Yes at Pratt it was about 1.
And Hamilton? And Hamilton was slightly below 1.
It was a little over 1 -- less than 1.
Our next question comes from Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> On Pratt and Hamilton can you say what the spares did if you go sequentially from Q4? I don't know if -- give us just a second.
I think we can probably figure that out.
So sequentially spares sales were down mid-single-digits at Pratt down about 5% sequentially.
And sequentially I don't know that I have the -- I don't have the Hamilton numbers so we can get back to you on that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Then if you just pull up you said at the beginning that the results for the quarter were better than a little better than you had expected but there's a lot going on here.
If you were to pull out the 2 or 3 things that you thought were clearly better for the quarter when you look at the whole year and the 2 or 3 that you would say did not come out as well how -- what would you highlight? I think the things that you'd highlight naturally of course CCS.
I think the res business there was better than what we had expected.
I think the Hamilton business also again a little better than what we had expected really a strong start to the year so really solid organic revenue growth and good conversion with 15% profit growth.
So I think those were both pleasant surprises.
I'd also tell you even in CCS the traction that we're getting on the restructuring there in the consolidation of the F&amp;S business continue to pay dividends.
So margins were strong in CCS I think you're going to continue to see that throughout the year.
Yes on the downside there's just a lot of stuff going on.
Obviously China was a bit of a surprise although it was really -- we've talked about it back in March we knew it's going to be soft in China.
Sikorsky a little bit weaker than we expected but again that's just timing.
I think they missed 5 helicopters at the very end of the quarter due to a small supplier quality issue.
Those helicopters have all shipped so not really any bad news at Sikorsky and I think at Pratt things continue on track.
We're -- development engineering is up but it's up in line with expectations.
We continue to make good progress there so this is very atypical for UTC given all of the moving pieces here.
We've got acquisitions.
We've got divestitures.
We've got markets that are a little bit choppy.
But I think long-term we're doing the right things from a portfolio standpoint aligning the portfolio with where we want to be with the growth markets and it's going to be a tough year this year but I think it will be a solid year.
We're going to be able to deliver on the commitments.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly when you look at China in both from an Otis standpoint and from a Carrier standpoint and you see shifts in expectations for commercial construction growth there how do you approach that? In other words what changes do you make to those businesses operationally when you're looking at different types of outlooks? Yes that's a great question.
In fact one of the things that we've done in China is actually realign the geographies from a leadership standpoint.
China as part of Otis used to be part of the North Asian operation under Charles Vaux [ph].
Charles is retired and then we've brought in Thomas Vining to take over China as a stand-alone region.
And the recent we've done that is because the aftermarket opportunity remains the single biggest opportunity across the Otis business for future profit growth.
It's only 7% of the business in China today.
We think within a few years it's going to get back up towards a more normal 50%-50% kind of business.
A few years might be 10 years but really the focus is going to be on growing the aftermarket when you see moderating growth as we see today on the commercial construction side.
So long-term focus there is to grow the aftermarket.
I think Pedro talked about that in March and you're going to hear us continue to talk about that in the coming months in orders as the real focus of the business is to grow the aftermarket.
Quite frankly that's where the beauty of Otis is is in that 1.8 million elevators and service around the world every day.
It's that annuity.
It's a wonderful thing and we need to grow it in China.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But it sounds like what you're saying is that when you see quarterly or 6-month changes in outlooks for China that doesn't cause you to react very much in terms of your China strategy and your operational approach.
No I think again the focus is still going to continue to be on China.
And we continue to do the right things for the long term.
As I said we're opening up this new factory in Chongqing with a low-cost Gen2 elevator and we continue to make investments in China and China's going to be a growth market for years to come.
The urbanization trends that -- they aren't in a onetime thing and again we've seen this thing play out before where you see quarter-to-quarter you'll see ups and downs in China.
But a couple of quarters of China being down doesn't dissuade us from the opportunity that's there.
Our final question comes from Deane Dray from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I know we touched on this on Carrier residential but the idea here is that you've got this big surge of orders the last 2 weeks of March and a number of OEs have reported seeing the exact same thing.
So it's really important if we could some color regarding how that transitioned into April because that way we get a better sanction about is this real demand coming back or these dealer incentives? But any color regarding the demand you've seen so far in April would be helpful.
I can't -- I'm not going to give you weekly order trends.
I know you look at this every week but I would tell you the season is up to very good start and the strength that we saw at the end of March has continued into April a little bit slower rate than March but still pretty strong as we move into April here.
Research Division</strong> Do you run any risk of components shortages because if you do get that perfect storm and you do get a resurgence in demand supplies inventories are really lean here including compressors.
Is there an issue where you might get some inventory stockouts or is that -- you don't expect that is a scenario? In fact I asked Geraud that same question a week ago as we saw this surge in orders.
It's a short cycle business and we see this all the time.
But I know that Geraud and the Carrier folks have been working with all the suppliers.
I know that they've been working with Emerson to make sure there's adequate supplier compressors and we have not seen any shortages so far although again we're -- something to keep an eye on as these trends continue.
Again we've got the capacity in our factories to do -- to ramp up pretty quickly and I believe also the supply base does as well.
Research Division</strong> And then the last one is within the resi orders that you received has it been skewed towards the lower price point entry level 13s here or has there been any step up in terms of the higher price points? I haven't really seen any skew.
I think again last year we saw a big -- last couple of years we've seen kind of down and dirty where everything is entry level SEER 13.
Orders look to be pretty good in the quarters.
We got a little bit better news there including some of the I think the R228s the shipments were kind of in line with the market still.
So yes that don't see any big macro change there in terms of the buying patterns.
Thank you so much.
All right everyone thanks.
So to start the year is a little bit better than we expected.
We're confident of our full year outlook.
Of course we're positioning the company for earnings growth both this year and beyond as we continue our focus on cost reduction and the transformational changes to the portfolio as well as the continued investments in these game-changing technologies.
Thanks for listening today.
We look forward to seeing you throughout the remainder of the year.
Maria [ph] and team will be available for calls throughout the day so thanks very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies Second Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Louis Chenevert Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jay Malave Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTC's website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and onetime items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTC's SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead Mr.
Chenevert.
Well thank you very much Stephanie and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to be part of the call on this historic moment for our company.
We've had a full week with many exciting developments.
Greg will take you through the quarter results in just a moment.
But first let me start with an update on our major acquisitions and on our business transformation strategy.
Late last month we closed on the IAE transaction and this morning we received the final regulatory approvals for the Goodrich acquisition.
We anticipate closing later today or early tomorrow morning.
These are transformational deals for UTC setting the stage for strong earnings momentum.
IAE brings tremendous aftermarket runway with the V2500 which now represents Pratt &amp; Whitney's largest install fleet.
There are over 4 500 V2500 engines in service with an average age of only 7 years and we expect to deliver another 3 000 engines in the future.
The IAE transaction further validates our game-changing GTF technology and strengthens our relationship with nearly 200 airline customers around the world ensuring a seamless transition from the V2500 to the GTF-powered A320neo.
Turning to Goodrich.
I'm very pleased we will close such a large transaction in just 10 months with limited required divestitures.
Goodrich adds a very strong portfolio of complementary products and is a great fit with Hamilton Sundstrand.
Bringing these 2 companies together will significantly strengthen our position in the growing aerospace segment and will allow us to develop more integrated systems for our customers and win greater content on next-generation aircraft.
Since announcing the agreement we have done significant integration planning.
So we are ready to begin integrating Goodrich into our Propulsion and Aerospace systems organization.
A team of more than 50 employees has worked relentlessly on integration planning with hundreds of employees lending additional support.
The leadership team is in place and our extensive planning activities will make for a smooth transition for our customers suppliers and employees.
Our large transactions culture and people are key to success and I'm very happy with everything I see at this point.
We have already identified all of the $400 million of run rate synergies that we expect to achieve by year 5 and leadership is looking up more.
I am confident that Alain and the team will identify additional synergies as they work through the integration process.
We've completed the financing for Goodrich with a structure that was much better than originally expected.
We issued the largest U.S.
corporate bond offering since 2009 $9.8 billion at an average interest rate of less than 3%.
We listen to our shareholders and we reduced our original need for equity issuance from $4 billion down to $1.1 billion of mandatory convertible units.
We expect to pay down about 1/3 of the total [ph] purchase price by the end of 2012 using that proceeds from previously announced divestitures and cash from operations.
We have made great progress on the divestitures.
We reached agreement to sell both Hamilton Sundstrand Industrial's business and Pratt &amp; Whitney Rocketdyne this week.
These are strong profitable businesses but we are streamlining the UTC portfolio to focus on our core of commercial building systems and aerospace.
In the second quarter we classified another non-core asset our fuel cell business as held up for sale.
And we continue to expect to complete the divestiture of Clipper imminently.
As expected during the regulatory process for Goodrich we agreed to divest businesses totaling about $250 million of annual sales including Goodrich's electric power systems business pumps and engine control business.
These are attractive businesses with great employees so we expect a robust auction process.
We also agreed to sell Goodrich interest into the air engine control original equipment joint venture for Rolls Royce.
Let me sum up by saying great progress on transformational changes that will generate real-long term value for our shareholders.
This team is executing in a superb way.
Before I turn it over to Greg to take you through the second-quarter results just a few comments on the year.
It is certainly a challenging environment out there with a slowing global economy the euro trading near 1.2 and the late July close for Goodrich.
Therefore we are rebaselining our expectations for the year.
We now expect sales of $58 billion to $59 billion $3 billion lower than our prior expectation and earnings per share of $5.25 to $5.35 versus our prior expectation of $5.30 to $5.50 with FX and the late July close of Goodrich accounting for about $0.15 of additional headwind.
Now we know how to operate in a tough macroeconomic environment at UTC and we are increasing our investment in restructuring this year to $500 million up from $450 million.
As always we'll remain focused on what we control in the back half of the year cost reductions strong execution investment in game-changing technology and the seamless integration of Goodrich and IAE into the UTC portfolio.
With that let me turn it over to Greg.
Okay thanks Louis.
We're now on Slide 2 on the webcast.
As you saw on the press release this morning second-quarter earnings per share was up 15% year-over-year to $1.62.
That included a benefit from a lower tax rate.
Our tax rate in the quarter came in at 22.5% primarily due to the timing of some legal entity reorganizations.
Before one-timers the tax rate contributed a $0.13 benefit versus our full-year expected tax rate of 29.5%.
In the quarter we also faced $0.11 per share of headwind from higher pension costs E&amp;D investment and FX.
But despite these headwinds segment operating margin expanded 80 basis points with Climate Controls &amp; Security leading the way with 230 basis points of margin expansion evidence that we continue to focus on execution and cost control in this difficult economic environment.
UTC's organic sales growth of 1% reflects slowing sales in Europe China and the commercial Aerospace aftermarket.
There's clearly uncertainty out there.
Europe continues to struggle with the debt crisis with no clear solution in place.
Most indicators now point to a very modest growth in the U.S.
this year with this looming fiscal cliff at the end of this year which could further dampen growth prospects for next year.
As we all know China and India are also faced with slowing growth.
China's reported second-quarter GDP slowed to 7.6%.
That's still of course pretty strong but the lowest level we've seen since early 2009.
We do know that the Chinese government is taking steps to stimulate the economy including a second interest rate cut but the government remains concerned about high property prices.
And despite this near-term slowdown the urbanization trends and the long-term fundamentals are still in place in the emerging markets and especially in China and in the central and western provinces.
We have confidence in the long-term growth prospects of all these emerging markets.
Against this economic backdrop though we are lowering our second-half growth expectations for Otis CCS and Pratt &amp; Whitney.
We're also lowering our expectations for the euro to a new U.S.
dollar to euro rate of 1.20.
This represents an additional $135 million of earnings headwind to our original guidance where we pegged the euro at 1.35 to the dollar.
As Louis said we continue to focus on what we control in the face of these challenges.
So in the first half of the year we invested $204 million in restructuring with $93 million in the second quarter.
The businesses continue to find way to reduce structural costs and we're once again taking up our estimates for restructuring for the year to $500 million which will include Goodrich-related actions.
That's up $50 million from our previous guidance.
As a result of the headwinds and changes we've discussed we now expect sales of $58 billion to $59 billion as Louis said with organic growth of 0% to 2% versus our prior expectation of organic growth of 2% to 4%.
We expect earnings per share of $5.25 to $5.35 of course it's down from our previous guidance of $5.30 to $5.50.
This guidance includes $3.6 billion of sales and a net $0.30 EPS dilution from the Goodrich acquisition.
That's lower than our previous guidance of $4.5 billion of sales and $0.25 of net dilution respectively.
These changes are simply due to the late July close which is a month later than we originally built into our plan.
So still a lot of moving parts such as accounting conformity and amortization around the Goodrich deal and we'll be back to update you if necessary later in the quarter but we don't anticipate any big changes at this point.
On Slide 3 now.
Few more points in the quarter.
Total sales were down 5% due to the impact of FX and net divestitures.
Of note Hamilton Sundstrand delivered another strong quarter with 9% organic growth on strength of both commercial and military aerospace.
Earnings per share of $1.62 include $0.10 of net one-time gains that's from the ongoing transformation at CCS.
That was more than offset $0.06 of restructuring.
Excluding restructuring and net one-time items in both years EPS increased 13%.
FX had a negative impact for the quarter of $0.05.
As you know we completed most of the financing for the Goodrich acquisition in early June.
Interest expense and transaction costs related to the acquisition were $0.04 in the quarter.
And free cash flow was 99% of net income.
UTC continues to deliver strong consistent cash flow and we're confident we'll deliver free cash flow equal to or in excess of net income for the year.
Order trends now on Slide 4.
As you can see in this chart CCS's North American Residential HVAC orders were up 4% in the quarter which is in line with our full-year expectations.
At Otis new equipment orders were down 4% at constant currency including China which contracted 13%.
But we did see improving trends late in the quarter as the initiatives the Otis team implemented have started to gain traction.
Pratt &amp; Whitney's large commercial engine spare orders were down 15% for the quarter and Hamilton Sundstrand's commercial spares were down 10%.
Although RPM's [indiscernible] passenger miles are increasing and load factors remain high airlines continue to conserve cash and limit their spending on spares.
Average sales per shop visit versus the prior year have dropped about $300 000 or $400 000 and we now expect Pratt &amp; Whitney's commercial spares to be down about 10% organically this year versus our prior expectation of 5% growth.
So a solid second quarter with good execution in the business in a tough macro economic environment.
I'll come back and talk a little bit more about the full year at the end but let me turn it over to Jay to take you to the business unit results.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 5.
At Otis operating profit was down 8% in the quarter and a 5% decline at sales with foreign currency translation reducing both sales and profit growth by 5 percentage points.
Operating margin was 22.7% 70 basis points lower than prior year.
At constant currency new equipment sales were down low single digit with high single-digit sales growth in North America more than offset by declines in Europe and China.
Although China new equipment sales were down low single digit in the quarter the rate of decline improved from the previous quarter.
Overall service sales were up led by growth in modernization and contractual maintenance.
Aggressive cost reduction actions partially offset the impact of higher commodity costs and continued pricing pressure mostly in Europe.
At constant currency new equipment orders were down 4% with North America up double digits Europe flattish and China down 13%.
Thanks to enhanced communication and brand awareness efforts in China Otis is beginning to stem the decline in new equipment orders and saw a solid growth in June.
A much weaker euro combined with the continued economic slowdown in Europe and soft new equipment volumes in China are putting pressure on Otis' profit growth.
For the year we now expect Otis sales to be down mid-single digit from up mid-single digit and profits to be down $175 million to $225 million compared to the previous guidance of up $50 million to $75 million.
This guidance includes $175 million of unfavorable foreign currency translation versus $75 million previously assuming a euro average of 1.20 for the balance of the year.
Otis increased its restructuring efforts to reduce costs and continue making structural changes to position the business for future profit growth.
On Slide 6.
UTC Climate Controls &amp; Security margins were up sharply to 15.7% an increase of 230 basis points from prior year as profits increased 4% in the quarter on 11% lower sales.
Organic sales were flat following 9% growth in the second quarter of last year.
Organic growth was up mid-single digit in each of the America's residential and commercial HVAC businesses and flattish in Europe Asia and the automation and controls businesses.
Transicold was down double digits organically.
Profit growth was driven by restructuring and productivity including savings from the consolidation of Carrier and Fire &amp; Security.
Global commercial HVAC orders were up mid-single digit overall but down low double digits in Europe.
Transicold orders were down around 25% and Global Fire &amp; Security products were down low single digit.
While CCS first-half earnings were in line with expectations full-year guidance is being revised to growth of about $150 million from up $225 million to reflect increased FX headwind and weaker organic growth of around 2% due to softer end markets.
When combined with the impact of divestitures and FX headwind we expect reported sales to be down about 7%.
Margin expansion will be strong up about 180 basis points from productivity cost reduction and the benefit from portfolio transformation.
Turning to Aerospace on Slide 7.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney sales were up 5% in the second quarter including one point of unfavorable currency at Pratt Canada.
Higher sales were driven by growth in the military and Pratt Canada businesses partially offset by lower commercial aftermarket and lower industrial shipments at Power Systems.
Large commercial spares were down 13% year-over-year including the benefit from sales to third-party aftermarket parts companies.
Operating profit in the quarter was down 1%.
Higher E&amp;D pension costs and lower commercial spares were partially offset by the benefit of higher military and Pratt Canada sales restructuring savings and a gain from the sale of equity position in a commercial aftermarket venture of about $0.02 per share.
Commercial spares book-to-bill for the quarter was slightly below 1.
As Greg stated craft's conservation at airlines has impacted order rates and we now expect commercial spares to be down 10% organically versus up mid-single digits previously.
As a result of the lower commercial spares outlook Pratt's operating profit is now likely to be down $100 million to $125 million for the year as compared with down $25 million to $50 million previously.
We now expect sales to be up mid-single digits versus prior expectations of about high single digits.
Hamilton Sundstrand delivered a solid quarter with profit growth of 14% on 7% higher sales.
OEM sales were up mid-teens while aftermarket was flattish.
Profit growth in the quarter was driven by a strong conversion and OEM growth and favorable mix.
Operating margin was up 110 basis points year-over-year to 17.1%.
Overall commercial spares sales orders were down 10% year-over-year with declines in both parts and provisioning.
Book-to-bill was below 1.
For the full year we continue to expect operating profit for the base business to be up $75 million to $100 million and sales up high single digit.
We'll provide an update later in the year on total UTC aerospace systems guidance.
Turning to Sikorsky on Slide 9.
Operating profit grew 5% on 9% lower sales.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 51 aircraft 44 aircraft were based on military platforms and 7 commercial.
Lower sales were driven by 19 fewer aircraft deliveries primarily lower U.S.
government and international military deliveries.
Mid-teens growth in aftermarket sales partially offset the impact of lower aircraft volumes.
On profit strong performance in aftermarket favorable mix of commercial aircraft deliveries including the absence of 1 Canadian Maritime Helicopter offset the impact of the lower military aircraft deliveries.
Productivity and restructuring benefits across the enterprise also contributed towards our second-quarter operating profit growth.
For the full year we continue to expect profit growth of $50 million to $75 million on a mid-single-digit sales decline.
With that let me turn it back to Greg.
Thanks Jay.
As I said earlier these are really solid results in a very very tough economic environment.
Let me just talk about a few highlights in the quarter just to add to some of the others we've already talked about.
Pratt &amp; Whitney secured an additional 410 orders for our GTF engine family at the Farnborough Air Show including a SkyWest order for 200 Mitsubishi Regional Jet Engines.
And we now have over 2 900 firm and option engine orders across the 4 GTF platforms.
We've also completed over 3 000 hours of testing and concluded the flight test program for the both CSeries and MRJ engine.
We continue to expect the CSeries engine will achieve certification in the fourth quarter of this year.
Sikorsky signed a Multi-Year 8 contract in early July with the U.S.
government.
The contract calls for the production approximately 650 Blackhawk and Seahawk helicopters including foreign military sales and that is valued at about $8.5 billion through 2017.
On the commercial side of the business Geraud and the team are progressing well with the integration of our new CCS organization.
The combined impact of portfolio and operational transformation along with the synergies from the integration contributed to a record operating margin of 15.7% in the second quarter.
As far as the 2012 outlook as we mentioned before we're going to see earnings this year somewhere between $5.25 and $5.35 on sales of $58 billion to $59 billion.
As for other elements of the guidance while the timing of certain transactions reduced the effect of tax rate in the first half of the year we continue to expect an operational tax rate of 29.5% for the base business for the full year 2012.
And what that means is in the third and fourth quarter we'll see an effective tax rate of about 32%.
As I mentioned we expect to invest about $500 million in restructuring including Goodrich.
That'll be more than offset by about $600 million of gains and other onetime items.
We'll come back and update you once we have more access to Goodrich including our expectations for the new United Technologies aerospace systems segment.
And with that let's stop and open up the call for questions.
Stephanie? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you -- just going up to 30 000 feet here take us maybe on a -- from a walk -- from your old EPS guidance to your new.
Middle of the range you've gone from $5.40 to $5.30 but the operational things you're laying out there it's looks like around $400 million of pressure in the segments and then the higher restructuring looks like a bigger impact.
So could you give us a bridge and then where you are in terms of a contingency at your new number.
Yes okay Joe.
There are a lot of moving pieces here.
So I'll try and go through this as succinctly as possible.
So you think about -- we had a prior guidance of $5.40 and that concluded a contingency of about $200 million or $0.15.
As we look at what's happened in the business is we've taken about $0.20 of operating segment profit away.
About half of that's at Otis as we've reduced new equipment and service sales down about $600 million of sales.
The other half of the operational downward pressure is at Pratt and CCS.
Pratt's down about $0.06 and CCS is down about $0.04.
This is just the operational piece.
The next piece of course is FX which is another $0.10 of the takedown.
On top of that now you add in Goodrich about a $0.05 impact from the 1-month delay in closing about $0.04 from additional restructuring.
We also picked up about $0.04 as we moved UT Power to discontinued ops.
We picked up another $0.10 with eliminations and other and some minority interest changes down below the line so we've used up the contingency and at the midpoint of the new guidance I would say we don't have any contingency.
That's why we really have the lower end at $5.25.
Now we think again we properly calibrated each of the businesses with these new guides but there still is risk out there in the back half of the year.
And again I think we've also been conservative on the year at 1.20 -- and it's at 1.22 1.23 today hopefully we'll get some lift out of that which might add some contingency.
But it's a little early to tell.
Research Division</strong> Could you walk through the pluses are the $0.04 and the $0.10 because that's where I was really getting at -- was -- what's the kind of offsetting all this other pressure? Yes so if you think about CCS I mean we're taking sales down about $400 million operationally and earnings down about $100 million.
You've got a benefit though offsetting that of about $50 million related to commodities and really that's just a takedown in sales in Asia where we used to think we'd see about mid-single-digit growth -- I'm sorry high-single digit now it's mid-single digit.
Transicold because of the order rates we've seen in the second quarter has gone from down high-single digits to probably down near 10% and the F&amp;S product lines are going to be up low single from mid single.
So you add all that up you'll get about $400 million of takedown in sales and $100 million of EBIT and then there's $50 million of offset for the net commodities.
On the Pratt side it's a little bit more complicated but really it's about -- spares are going to be down about $350 million from what we've previously estimated.
There's a couple of -- and on top of that service will be down a little bit so Pratt's sales will actually be down about $500 million and there is about $200 million of earnings associated with that.
Offsetting that you've got restructuring savings of about $25 million.
IAE will add about $50 million it's a little better than what we had expected just because of some of the timing.
And also E&amp;D will be down about $50 million.
Now some of these programs have moved to the right.
So net-net about $75 million of takedown at Pratt and about $50 million of takedown at CCS.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Just -- second question just digging into Otis.
The margins took a -- improved a bit since some of the trends improved a bit sequentially from Q1 to Q2.
What's -- as we look towards the rest of the year and into the margin pressure we really saw on Q1 do you feel like you've really gotten your arms around I guess the pricing pressure you are facing in Europe? I don't know if this labor inflation played a role in the service business? What can we expect there going forward? So yes on top of the -- just the overall weakness that we've seen in sales we have -- we are seeing some continued pricing pressure.
If you think about the margin it was down 70 basis points in the second quarter after being down 100 basis points in the first quarter about 30 basis points of that takedown was related to the pricing another 40 basis points was related to commodity.
It's mostly rare earth.
Going forward to the back half of the year we've got about $75 million of additional headwind from pricing in the current guidance.
So on top of sales being down about $500 million you've got another $75 million of bad news from pricing.
And commodities give you a little bit of a benefit.
Restructuring gives you a little bit of benefit.
But overall you're going to be down somewhere around $260 million or so from previous guidance with FX of $100 million.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Your Carrier and old Fire &amp; Security business delivered terrific numbers in the quarter Greg.
Could you for a moment sort of talk about some of the successes that Geraud has been able to accomplish.
It looks like some of them are coming through a little quicker than I would've anticipated.
I think the integration of the CCS -- I'm sorry CCS between Carrier and Fire &amp; Security is going probably better than what we had originally anticipated.
It's really just a tribute  to Geraud and the team.
They've been able to take out a lot more cost a lot more quickly than what we had anticipated.
But I think more importantly they've been able to stabilize some of the other businesses at F&amp;S where we saw issues last year especially in Europe.
We're not getting much traction on the top line with the F&amp;S businesses.
But the bottom line is getting better as there's more discipline around pricing more discipline around the contracts that we're taking.
So a lot of the bad news that we saw last year bad news surprises coming out of the U.K.
for instance again sales aren't up in the U.K.
but profits are now on the legacy F&amp;S business just because of the discipline I think that Geraud and the management team has brought to the pricing process there.
Maybe Howard if I could add I think we're seeing the benefits of a very seasoned team that did profound transformation at Carrier before that exercising their leadership skills with the F&amp;S business and like the backlog in the U.K.
is getting much better I mean much better margin on that backlog as we go forward.
So Geraud is doing a superb job at leveraging all the best practices and implementing quickly across the board and he knows how to do transformation and he's executing very well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up one -- I can't resist on Sikorsky a little bit and talk a little bit about the Canadian Maritime helicopter.
Sorry to do that.
But it does look like it slipped again to the right.
And how are you sort of accommodating or coming up with a solution that will maybe help out your numbers? Yes.
Well let me take that Howard.
First of all the CMH program I have to say is the best maritime helicopter in the world.
And it's basically ready to fly and we have made incredible progress.
We're also working very closely with the customer to make sure that they get the product they're looking for that it's a win-win.
And I would say Mick Maurer and the team have at Sikorsky are aggressively working to make sure we deliver these helicopters and minimizing the impact of the business.
Now what's very encouraging just a heads up is we saw some high interest at the Farnborough Air Show this year.
This is the second air show Paris was the same last year.
We saw outside customers show interest in the platform as is.
And we saw this interest renewed again this year by a couple countries.
And in my view while it's been a painful experience to this point as we move forward and deliver these 28 helicopters.
In my view there's potential to deliver basically many many new helicopters of the same configuration that we've now developed we have.
And it's all about working with the Canadian government now to make sure that we close on all the issues.
So you need both parties basically to agree on tackling the issues.
And I would say we're making substantial progress.
Obviously there's been some key deadlines that we had hoped meet and basically at this point in time both sides are working to make sure they ultimately get the helicopter that they badly need to replace their aging fleet.
Just a follow-up to Louis's comments.
We are still -- we have in the forecast this year for Sikorsky to ship 5 CMH.
Right now as Louis said we're still negotiating with the Canadians around the final configuration of what those aircraft are going to be and we still plan to ship those 5 this year.
But obviously if those slip into next year it gives us a little more headwind.
I think there's nothing to do in terms of next year's issue around delivering the 19 helicopters financially until we resolve the contractual and configuration issues.
But we clearly have an eye towards that Howard to see what we can do to help offset some of that what will be a pretty big headwind at Sikorsky next year.
Just to close on this Howard.
We have I think a path to success that's developing.
And in the upcoming webcast in the month of September we should be able to give better color and update as to the progress we are making there.
Our next question comes from Douglas Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to CC&amp;S.
If you could describe a little bit more about the actions that have been taken.
You talked about more discipline with respect to pricing in Fire &amp; Security.
But I'm trying to understand the margins were very impressive.
If you go across the subsegments within CC&amp;S where you saw the most success and what steps were taken? Were these organizational changes? Were there headcount reductions facilities consolidation? What actions are taking place there? We talk a lot about CCS and the Carrier portfolio rationalization or reorganization that Geraud and team have been undertaking in the last few years.
And some of that same magic I think you see that happening with the F&amp;S portfolio.
We did divest a couple of F&amp;S businesses in the quarter which helped margin a little bit.
But I think importantly at Carrier CCS has been the operational transformation.
What they've been able to do in the factories continuing to implement the ACE operating systems taking overhead out.
And we've talked about what a great work they've done in Collierville Tennessee with the lines there to reduce overhead the breakeven point in the factory.
But also think about all the restructuring that's been done.
We've moved a lot of work down to Monterey and that's been very very successful transforming the commercial product lines.
We've invested a lot in R&amp;D.
Again I think we've got better products today we're much more energy efficient and we're getting good pricing in the market for these new products.
So I'd say it's a combination of portfolio cost discipline factory performance and product investment all those things together have really contributed to this margin expansion that we're seeing.
And yet for the full year and Jay mentioned it earlier we're probably going to get 180 basis points of margin expansion.
We're talking about close to 14% margins this year which was Geraud's goal for a year from now.
So again I think they're making great progress and a doing lot faster than any of us anticipated.
And remember the skill set was much more advanced at Carrier on the ACE discipline supply chain development.
And by creating CCS they've been able to leverage that skill set into what's the old Fire &amp; Security that was really the last one to make progress on ACE and supply chain.
So we've kind of jump-started these initiatives and we're seeing the good impact of the leadership being focused but also having done it before.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Well if I think back a few years ago George David often talked about a goal of 15% margins at Carrier and that seemed far off.
I mean are you -- is that a possibility here in the reasonable future? Well as you know it's my job always to stretch with big goals and impose on BUs basically stretch targets and then they happily go deliver.
And that culture is untouched at UTC.
That's the way I run the business.
And I think we're well on track with proving basically that we're going to deliver on these big goals.
I think that what you may be -- you might think of Doug is from a top-line standpoint Geraud and team are going to deliver what will be close to 14% margins at organic growth of only about 2% this year.
I think once we start to see some traction in the end markets I think obviously there's got to be upside and Carrier demonstrated that back in 2010 when the markets came back and we got great operating leverage.
So again I think there is runway here at the end of the day.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research Partners.
Just wondering on a couple of things on Goodrich.
How much of the incremental restructuring is at Goodrich? And does the timing change or business trends that you're seeing in aero aftermarket kind of change your view on what the accretion outlook is for 2013? No I think again as we look at the combined Hamilton and Goodrich businesses we're really pretty much on track to what we had expected for the full year this year.
Nothing really out there that would tell us that there's going to be any the big impact or longer-term impact on the commercial aftermarket.
I think Goodrich's second quarter their aftermarket was up a little bit which is better than what we even saw at Hamilton.
So financially I don't see an issue there.
The restructuring it's about $150 million roughly of restructuring we'll do this year.
And that's -- some at legacy Goodrich and some at the legacy Hamilton businesses.
So as we combine the headquarters down in Charlotte there'll be some costs we'll be incurring up here in Connecticut.
We're also of course looking at some rationalization.
We'll take out the public company costs and all that.
But I think Alain and the team have a clear line of sight to that $150 million this year and there will be more next year as we get into this.
But I think the accretion number that we laid out which is $0.50 to $0.55 next year from the Goodrich acquisition is still right about what we expected it.
Again I think interest costs are a little bit better.
Obviously you don't have any issue.
A lot less equity makes that number a little bit better as well.
So we're really on track I think financially on the Goodrich transaction as we enter day 1 here.
And maybe to add everything I thought this deal was when I announced it last September I would say it's all of that or better today.
I mean the talent that's in there the opportunities the synergies the customer response the partner response all good.
So I'm very very happy with closing such a large transaction in such a short period and everything we mapped out up front got better.
And I was wondering just changing gears in the second question the comment on Otis June China looked better maybe not trying to overanalyze a month.
But do you in fact kind of see and feel a real inflection and just kind of the tone of business there whether it's -- what's going on competitively or how the government relations and the like are playing out and what do you think about the back half? Obviously you gave your guidance but just kind of the commercial success of Otis looking into the back half.
Well first of all Otis a very strong franchise as you know with a great brand recognition.
And I would say that the profound changes we have done in China as far as leadership structure reporting line have had a good impact with the customer base and with the results.
Certainly as we went through the second quarter we made a change with the President of Otis China now reporting to the President of Otis Pedro Baranda.
We also created a business development office that's now located in Shanghai.
And remember about a year ago we had announced also the high-rise center of excellence was now in Shanghai.
So there's a great team now in China that's complete that is driving momentum with the dealers driving momentum with -- we adjusted the price as we declared earlier to reflect the realities of the competitive landscape that's after the rare earth increase we did last year.
And obviously as the months have gone by we're starting to see that the penalty that was in front of us with government opportunities has disappeared and basically we are now bidding on the opportunities like the next tranche [ph] Beijing Metro et cetera.
So I would say Pedro and the team -- Pedro has been to China twice in the last 6 weeks.
I'm going to be with him at the September Chongqing's Mayor's Conference.
We're going to opening the new factory in Chongqing that is going to be serving the Central and West regions.
As you know there's also been a big shift in mix from the basically traditional mix to more low-cost housing where perhaps Otis had a bit of weakness.
But now with the new factory with the new product line and everything we put in place basically we feel very good that we have a guidance that Pedro can achieve going forward and more importantly resume our share position in that market.
I think it's all coming together.
And as a matter of fact as we said I mean it's 1 month but I would say we continue to see similar momentum.
June was a record month of sales for Otis in China following a couple of very difficult months.
July is off to a reasonable start.
So I mean it's early in Q3 and I'm not going to give details.
But I would say everything we've done as we monitor and I'll be there personally later on in September I would say it's coming together and Otis is a strong franchise and will deliver on its promises to its customer and shareholders.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the aftermarket.
Greg I wondered if you might speak to differences in trends you might be seeing in wide-body versus narrow-body or even in spares versus MRO at Pratt.
Yes I think it's very platform-specific as we look at the Pratt issues in the aftermarket.
I think what we have seen is -- actually shop visits are now look to be coming down in the back half of the year from what we expected.
And that's really primarily related to some of the actions that Delta and some of the others are taking at the legacy 757 fleet where we're seeing planes parked and their engines parted out.
So again I think airlines are very focused on cost containment and the 757 fleet obviously is Pratt-powered primarily we're seeing a bigger impact from that.
The other piece that I guess catches us a little by surprise but probably shouldn't have is on the V2500.
Again to Louis's point we've got 4 500 engines out there in service today.
About 5 years ago we put in an upgrade called the select program.
And that's actually extended the time on wing about 2 000 to 3 000 hours.
So some of the V2500 overhauls that we had expected this year are getting pushed into next year.
So it's not just one thing.
I think you've got a few retirements of 757s.
You got better on-wing performance on the Vs and then you've got the 4000 which again we did a lot of work a couple of years ago and they're also staying on-wing longer.
So cash conservation by the airlines better on-wing performances and some retirements all that kind of added up to what we see for the aftermarket this year at Pratt now.
And Carter a little -- other comment which is showing the signs of the airline are cautious as they shop content per visit perhaps reflect some of that.
They don't book the full content that we would expect them to book which means there's going to be shop visit sooner in the future because of that.
And overall I'm very pleased as you know with the IAE transaction.
While it doesn't always get the spotlight I think as much as it should it's a huge transformational deal.
It's a large install base for Pratt with a big backlog.
And those planes are flying.
It's a young fleet.
It's going to be around for a long time.
And I think that has a very positive impact on Pratt aftermarket business for a long time to come.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just as a second question like Jeff I don't want to get too hung up on single months.
But you called out that the residential HVAC orders were up 4 how did that trend over the quarter and can you speak to what you're seeing in June? June or July? Research Division</strong> July excuse me.
No I think -- as you think about it it's been very lumpy year on the resi side here in the U.S.
We started out and had a very slow first 2 months of the year and then a very very strong March.
And we ended March with great momentum.
We saw orders up and then slowed down again in April slowed down in May.
And then with all of the heat across the U.S.
we had a very very strong June.
And that continued into the first part of July here.
Again not surprising when you look at the temperatures across the U.S.
we've had a very very good cooling season from that respect.
So again I think we're still expecting kind of 4% to 5% growth in res for the year.
Could it be better? I think it will depend really upon the weather and restocking.
Right now channel inventories look to be about normal for this time of year.
We're seeing good sellthrough from distribution.
So I think it's -- there might be upside but it's really too early to call on and I think we're properly calibrated on that.
And the other thing of course you've got to remember there's still the heating season in front of us when last year at the legacy Carrier business there really was no heating business because of the very very warm weather we had throughout the fall and early winter last year.
So it's too early to call but I'd say right now we're cautiously optimistic on the market for the year.
Our next question comes from Terry Darling from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just probably a couple of follow-ups here.
First on the aftermarket I'm wondering from a timing perspective number of the items that you called out here sort of seem transient in nature but could continue for a couple of quarters obviously reflected in your guidance.
Thinking about 2013 do you see bounce back there? Is it just purely contingent on where the demand in the market is or how do you think about the aftermarket growth as you move into 2013? Terry I guess it's way too early to give guidance on 2013.
But let me give you just maybe a bit of color.
Our goal is to grow earnings double digit year after year and we know the formula.
I mean it's probably a third organic growth it's a third margin expansion and I think the track record of this team on margin expansion speaks for itself.
And then the other third is how we deploy capital.
So I mean there's no doubt that with the changes we've done with the transformational acquisition we have some good momentum.
And we will expect solid accretion from the Goodrich and IAE transaction next year and I think the game plan is in place.
We're working to mitigate some of the headwinds like CMH but at the same time we have a great backlog for example on S-92 the backlog is at a record of $1.4 billion.
So there's a lot of moving parts.
This team is enthused energized and stay tuned and I think we'll deliver UTC stellar results as we go forward.
I'll just add.
In terms of the aftermarket one of the things that obviously drives airline behavior is oil prices.
We have seen oil prices come down about 20% in the last 3 months.
That takes about 6 months to find its way through in terms of ordering patterns at the airlines.
The shop business which were light -- we saw this back in 2010.
Louis has always talked about the walls [ph] spares and spares over time are going to be there.
I guess it's just a question of timing.
So I can't tell you whether that's third or fourth quarter this year.
Obviously we think it's not going to happen.
We'll see it at some point but it is -- to Louis's point way too early to think about what spares outlook is going to look like.
The world is pretty dynamic given everything that's going on.
But again I think airlines are flying flying the planes full.
We've got a big fleet of V2500s out there.
We've got a good fleet of legacy Pratt products so spares will come back.
I think it's just a matter of timing to your first point.
Research Division</strong> And I appreciate we are a long way away from 2013 guidance.
But Louis it doesn't sound like you see anything out there with regards to the ability to grow double digit at this point that you'd want to highlight for us.
I guess the question is in that context 1/3 from capital allocation are you thinking the Goodrich accretion in that mix in other words do you think that organically double-digit growth is possible? Well you heard what I said before and it's way too early to give guidance but this is the culture of this company to drive double-digit earnings growth and that's what we're focused on I think we have the pieces coming together.
Stay tuned.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just lastly non-res construction in the U.S.
doesn't sound like you really changed your outlook there bunch of data points on both the positive and the negative side from other players.
How are you seeing that market at this point in and around that mid-single digit kind of longer term outlook? It's surprisingly strong.
And I think again to some of the early discussions it's really -- we're still seeing the benefit from new product introduction and this pushed towards energy efficiency.
So while there isn't much new construction going on there remains a very robust retrofit market.
And I think with the line of products that Carrier has in terms of the very very energy-efficient chillers they're gaining traction in that market.
And that's really what I would attribute the results of this quarter and our outlook for the year to.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First one just clarification on net proceeds from the divestitures now that you've kind of come to consummation on the major ones is it still net about $3 billion or plus or minus? Yes.
Probably $3 billion plus.
Again I think we've still got a couple of pieces to go here yet.
I think Louis mentioned we work very very close on the Clipper divestiture.
I think you'll see that in the next I don't know couple of days couple of weeks.
But net-net I think that $3 billion plus is still very good number.
That's of course after tax.
There's a little bit of tax leakage on the industrials.
Research Division</strong> And then the real question is on cash flow for the year.
Just looking at the generation you had in the first half which is great and looking at the second half which should have in absence of pension contributions that have been there in prior years.
I'm just at a loss as to why cash won't be as good if not better than -- significantly better than the last couple of years' back halves because of the absence of that pension contribution.
We're not going to change the guidance on cash flow but let me tell you...
I thought you said better or equal.
Yes.
The cash flow is going to be very strong in the back half.
And to your point -- there's no cash pension contributions.
You also have the benefit in the back half of the year of the Goodrich amortization as we  write up some of their inventory and other assets and take some charges around -- some amortization charges.
So yes cash will be very strong in the back half of the year and I think once we get the Goodrich deal consummated later today we'll come back in September with either Louis or one of us will probably update you on cash flow and I would expect it to be better than what we are currently guiding to.
Research Division</strong> And you mentioned the 1/3 of the deal price will be paid for from the assets or the divestitures plus cash from the cash flow.
What's the pro forma cash position at the consummation? We've got about $6 billion of cash on the balance sheet today.
And I think there's -- we've got another $16 billion of restricted cash out there which will go to pay off the owners.
What we're really going to do is you'll close most of these deals at the end of the year.
I think debt to cap of the end of the year will go down to about 48% and we'll continue to pay down even into next year.
But I think again there's plenty of cash both from Goodrich operations as well as the UTC operations this year.
We've got some cash on the balance sheet.
I think paying down 1/3 of this this year is not going to be an issue.
With Rocketdyne closing probably early next year as opposed to late this year.
Our next question comes from Ronald Epstein from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to just get a quick update on how it's going with the GTF where we are in the development program and you've got multiple engines right or multiple platforms and maybe Louis could talk about that what's going on with the GTF.
Well first of all we're very happy with the traction of GTF in the market.
And at this point in time what we have seen is that the engine development is coming together nicely.
All the advanced engineering we did and the technology readiness is paying off with I would say better than expected first time tests for all the engines we've got about I think it's 3 000 hours we have even more cycles.
We just did 2 very important tests.
We did the flocking bird test on the GTF which is the 5 1.5 pound bird and 1 2.5 pound and we passed that with flying colors maintained the performance required.
We also did a large bird test.
Those are all of the new FAA-required testing and that is basically passed very well.
The large bird test.
So there's only 1 test left which is the blade-out test.
All our modeling suggests we're on track.
We're geared up to deliver this engine at the end of the year for the Bombardier application and every program behind.
I would say I always challenge the team because this program has gone remarkably well.
And all the expertise we have in Pratt has come together to deliver what's been so far a very flawless program execution.
So we're buttoned up lined up on all the different platform.
Everything is on track and you see it through the R&amp;D investment.
Obviously it's a very intense period for R&amp;D.
And my commitment earlier was that 2012 was going to be the peak on R&amp;D.
And I would say that Dave and the team are holding to that commitment that 2012 will be the peak on R&amp;D.
So everything is on track and I would say the customers as we've won the different competition the customers truly value the technology advantage of GTF and not only fuel burn but noise reduction emissions reduction and they feel very comfortable that our engine is coming together and we'll deliver on the promises.
And every transaction I would say that Dave and the team have done I have reviewed them with Greg and we're proud of wins we've got.
We won on the merits of our technology and the platform and it's doing very well.
Research Division</strong> Now maybe just 1 follow-on onto that.
So far everything's now about in [ph].
I mean what -- how should we think about the potential investment and the whatever a 90 000-pound-plus class engine for a wide-body.
I mean is this technology that can be moved up to that level? Is the company thinking about that? Well I think what we have found out with the GTF architecture now is that it's also scalable.
And I think that there's no doubt that the Pratt team has had discussions with some of the key players in the market that see the value of the technology.
But you can expect that obviously the operating discipline and the UTC discipline on program will apply.
All this has to come together where it makes sense for the customers and the shareholders.
And obviously even the GTF and we have big partner content.
Partners have been superb by the way whether it's the Japanese or MTU.
And there's big appetite.
As people see the success of our platform there's big appetite to take on basically the portion of the program as a partner.
And then that's something that's a big change over the last couple of years as people recognize we have a superior technology advantage in the market.
Our next question comes from George Schapiro from Shapiro Research.
Louis a kind of a long-term question.
If I go back and look at Otis' history you had 1 year of downturn the last time being in '97 and the time before that in '90 and then following that a sharp snapback to record profits.
My question is the difference is that you only made 10% margins then and you're making over 20% today.
So what is the risk to any steady margin degradation at Otis that would make this time kind of look like different than the 2 downturns we saw before? I've said that before as far as Otis margin there's no doubt Otis is a 20 plus percent return business.
And I think nothing has changed.
Obviously we've had a soft patch in China over the last couple of months I explained earlier on the queue that I think we have taken the right measures from a leadership structure from the action with the dealer and it's starting to recover.
I have high confidence in Otis' future results.
I will also remind you that a big portion of the results always come from the aftermarket fees which is paramount to Otis' base success.
And that -- the install base has grown by the way -- continues to be a huge opportunity and Pedro's hired recently 600 new mechanics that we are training to deliver the highest-value service to our customers.
The unexplored territory is still the China aftermarket and I would say we're all over it at this point in time with the change in leadership we have done.
Those guys are in the same time zone they're there every day they know the market.
The nice thing about Otis is we're 95% localized in China.
We are also a local leadership that understands the dynamic of our market.
I think the changes we did allow to make decision on the spot and I think that's going to start to create a lot of good momentum for aftermarket.
So I think there's always pluses and minuses but nothing has changed as far as the fundamental of Otis being the leader in its segment and as you said before there have been glitches before.
We have another one.
But I think Pedro's leadership is making a huge difference.
I guess the thing I'm concerned about is the aftermarket I'm sure has been a big part of why the margins have gotten so high.
And now you're talking about the pricing pressure.
I mean is that -- it would seem to be self-limiting but can you provide some more color on how much down that might take the margins? George I think the issue here is the aftermarket is very profitable.
But we also make money on the OE side through all the factory cost reductions.
And it's really been the balance between OE and the aftermarket that's been a success story of Otis over the last 7 or 8 years as they've driven these margins up so -- and we've got this huge install aftermarket -- or install base of about 1.8 million elevators that we service around the world.
And we also make money out of the OE side because we've been able to leverage the global scale of Otis.
And even with sales which really haven't gone anywhere in 3 years the margins have remained very strong north of 20%.
And I think if we get a little bit of growth you're going to see the margins even improve further at Otis.
So I'm not worried about a big long-term downturn in Otis margins.
I think they have a focus on cost in everything that they do they leverage global scale better than any other business that I'm aware of.
And they've got their eye squarely on the goal of maintaining this industry-leading margin.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question was just -- in CCS was that $112 million of favorable adjustments expected when you gave your original year-over-year changes? Yes it was.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly related to George's question just on the Otis you've highlighted I guess 3 different things in terms of the pricing issue the brand issue and then the actual high-end residential pieces in China and then I guess some of the pricing pressure and services in Europe.
Could you just talk about what your assumptions are as you go through the remainder of the year in those different buckets? And really is there any reason to think those trends continue into next year as well? Just trying to think about how much we can see Otis growing into the future periods.
Yes I think if you think about new equipment we now think on a constant currency basis sales will probably be flat for the year and service is only going to be up about 2 points.
I think there is opportunity obviously beyond that.
I think one of the focus that Pedro and team have is reigniting top-line growth.
Flat sales with China down is still pretty good I think and as China recovers as the property market there recovers there is upside in those markets.
There's still long-term growth prospects in all these emerging markets.
We talk about the 600 cities that are out there by 2025 that will more have more than 3 million people and those are big opportunities for Otis in the next 15 years.
And I think we're well positioned to capitalize on that.
So I think it's a tough year this year.
It's really a tough year because of the situation in Europe and some of the missteps we've had in China.
To Louis' point we've I think corrected those missteps in China we're getting traction there we'll recover our share and Europe will get better eventually whether that happens this year next year who knows.
But I think we've got high confidence in Pedro and the team in terms of driving top-line growth which we really haven't seen in 3 years.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a final question just on Goodrich.
Once that closes really when will you be in a better position to talk about how we should think about the accretion into next year the restructuring opportunities once you can get your hands on the books? Is that something September October or is it going to wait until the December typical guidance? No I think we'll have a pretty handle on September.
We've got a couple of webcasts.
Louis got one I've got one and then we're going to have a -- we're going to host a half-day session up in Montreal at the end of September with all of the business units.
And at that point I think Alain and team will be prepared to talk about next year.
But I think again we still feel good about this $0.50 to $0.55 that we've laid out for Goodrich accretion next year.
And I don't think we've seen anything that would indicate that that's going to be off by any order of magnitude.
But again I think by the end of September we'll have our arms clearly around that.
Our final question comes from Deane Dray from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just want to make sure I calibrated correctly on the guidance change.
And so it's $500 million of restructuring and $600 million in gains does that mean $100 million will be falling through to EPS? Yes we really got $100 million out there that could fall through to EPS.
Obviously if we decide to spend that on restructuring that would take you from kind of that midpoint down to the lower end of the guidance range.
But right now we're keeping that $100 million as kind of our back-ocket contingency.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a backlog of restructuring that you could implement? And what would you trigger you to add? You're seeing a number of companies this quarter increasing restructuring pretty aggressively.
Yes we've done -- by the end of this year we will have done $2.5 billion of restructuring in the last 3.5 years.
So it always amazes me that the units come up with new and good payback ideas.
So right now that $500 million that we have is fully subscribed and as we get closer towards '13 and then we kind of understand where the markets are going there may be further call for additional restructuring.
But again I think the guys have been pretty aggressive in taking out structural cost to deal with the markets and that's why the margins are up this quarter just continued cost [indisernible] and that's the formula until markets recover we're going to focus on cost and restructuring and do what we do best.
Research Division</strong> And anything else on the divestiture side? We know Clippers soon to have an announcement fuel cell and then these required Goodrich divestitures.
Anything else that you're contemplating? Yes we're always looking at the portfolio Deane.
But I would think these are probably the biggest pieces.
But as the year goes on I think I would like to get a lot of -- any of the clean up of the portfolio behind us so I'd say we're never done but we're certainly getting close to done.
But the big elements of transformation will wrap up this year it's that simple.
That's where we'll leave it.
Well thanks everyone.
The UTC strategy of delivering top-line growth through innovative products global market reach is solidly in place.
We'll keep investing in our game-changing technologies and emerging markets and we always maintained our focus on cost reduction and productivity through the ACE operating system.
As end markets recover we will capitalize on our operating leverage and deliver a solid earnings growth.
We'll continue to generate strong sustainable cash flow and effectively deploy that cash through dividend share repurchase and M&amp;A.
Goodrich and IAE transactions are historic transformational changes to the UTC portfolio that I am proud of and confident we'll generate superior shareholder value for years to come.
Thank you for listening and we look forward to updating you on even more progress at the upcoming webcast through September.
Thank you very much.
Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies Third Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jay Malave Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available to download from UTC's website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and onetime items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTC's SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Okay thank you Stephanie.
Good morning everyone.
You saw on the press release this morning third quarter earnings per share of $1.37 is down 4% versus 2011.
The Goodrich acquisition previously anticipated to be about $0.10 diluted in the quarter did not have an impact on EPS due to lower onetime deal-related costs lower amortization and better underlying performance of the business.
IAE also had a solid performance in the quarter and contributed $0.03 of EPS.
Restructuring charges were also lower than we expected due to a shift in the timing from the third to the fourth quarter and were completely offset by onetime gains.
There was also a $0.04 benefit versus prior year on the tax line in the third quarter which we talked to you about in our September investor meeting.
The year-over-year benefit from restructuring and taxes nearly offset the $0.07 adverse impact from foreign exchange and a 2% decline in organic sales driven mainly by the slowing global economy and a decline in U.S.
defense spending.
Organic sales declined 12% at Sikorsky and were down 1% and 2% respectively at Otis and Climate Controls &amp; Security.
Organic sales at Aerospace Systems were up 6% but as you heard from Dave Hess we've yet to see a recovery in Pratt's large commercial engine aftermarket business.
Organically Pratt &amp; Whitney's large spares sales declined 25% in the quarter and we now expect the full year to be down high teens.
For UTC we now expect full year sales of approximately $58 billion at the low end of our previous guidance range driven by lower organic sales and partially offset by favorable FX compared to our last forecast.
In spite of the top line softening we continue to expect earnings per share of $5.25 to $5.35 for 2012.
With a solid start at Goodrich better visibility on the amortization and lower-than-expected deal costs we estimate that Goodrich dilution excluding the impact of share repurchase will be approximately $0.10 for 2012 as opposed to our prior expectation of $0.20.
That's about $125 million better.
And we expect a $50 million pretax benefit from our full year tax rate of 29%.
That's 50 basis points lower than our previous guidance.
Against an uncertain macroeconomic environment headed into 2013 we are preemptively increasing restructuring by $100 million in the fourth quarter.
We now plan to invest $600 million this year up from our previous estimate of $500 million.
And for the full year we now expect restructuring to be equal to onetime gains.
And as spare order rates have remained depressed at Pratt &amp; Whitney we're also lowering Pratt's operating profit estimate by $75 million for the year.
So let me sum it all up.
There's $175 million of upside; that's Goodrich $125 million; and the tax rate of $50 million offset by $100 million of additional restructuring and $75 million of headwind from Pratt commercial spares.
There's also some favorability from the weaker dollar versus our previous FX guidance and this should help offset potentially softer top line at some of the commercial units.
Okay now on to Slide 2 the third quarter.
Total sales were up 6% with acquisitions net of divestitures contributing 11 points of growth.
The net acquisition benefit more than offset 3 points of unfavorable FX and 2 points of organic decline.
The drop in organic sales is just a reflection of the global economic environment.
North America is still struggling to gain traction a slight recession in Europe and slowing growth in emerging markets.
At the commercial businesses North American organic sales were flat in the quarter and are only up 1% year-to-date.
In Europe in the commercial businesses sales are actually down 3% while sales in the BRIC countries grew 2%.
That was driven by double-digit growth in Russia and India.
In Aerospace robust commercial OEM organic growth was more than offset by weakness in the commercial aftermarket and military businesses.
Commercial OEM sales were up 14% led by double-digit growth in Aerospace Systems and Sikorsky.
Commercial aftermarket however was down 14% with the mid-teens decline at Pratt &amp; Whitney more than offsetting mid-single digit growth at Aerospace Systems and 20% growth at Sikorsky.
Sikorsky continues to feel the impact of reduced DOD spending with military sales down nearly 20% while Pratt &amp; Whitney saw military sales up 20% on the back of F119 spare engine deliveries which will wrap up later this year.
Excluding Goodrich and the incremental IAE shares segment operating margin was 16.1% so actually up 10 basis points versus the prior year.
Our focus on cost reduction and productivity more than offset 80 basis points of headwind for pension E&amp;D and FX.
Free cash flow very good in the quarter 105% and that included a $200 million contribution to our domestic pension plan.
We've taken the tough actions on our pension plan and we're well positioned with funding ratio of 84% even with the impact of Goodrich at historically low discount rates.
And we have no ERISA funding requirements until at least 2015.
Okay moving now to Slide 3 looking at order trends.
Similar to sales order trends in the quarter were generally in line with the global economy.
CCS' North American Residential HVAC orders were up 3%.
Otis new equipment orders were up 11% at constant currency including strength in North America.
China new equipment orders contracted 2% at constant currency in the quarter following a 16% decline in the first half as we steadily regain momentum.
I'd also note that the Q3 2% drop in orders is off a very tough compare with Q3 of last year when orders were up 31%.
Across the Aerospace businesses we continue to see the impact of cash conservation at the airlines.
Pratt &amp; Whitney's large commercial spare orders were up 14% in the quarter including the additional share of IAE.
Excluding the incremental share Pratt's orders were actually down 21% due to weakness primarily in the wide-body fleet.
Legacy Hamilton Sundstrand commercial spare orders were down 6%.
So despite some weakness in our end markets we continue to leverage our global scale and product innovation to strengthen the position of our industry-leading franchises.
Backlog for our base businesses increased by $3 billion so far in 2012.
And with the addition of Goodrich and IAE total backlog now stands at $81 billion.
Let me stop it there and turn over to Jay to take you through the business units then I'll come back and wrap up '12 and talk a little bit about '13.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 4.
At Otis operating profit was down 10% on a 6% decline in sales.
Foreign currency translation reduced sales and profit by 6 points.
Operating margin was 22.7% 1 point lower than prior year.
At constant currency new equipment sales were down low-single digit with mid-single digit declines in Europe and China partially offset by mid-single digit growth in the Americas and the rest of Asia.
Service was up slightly with higher contractual maintenance more than offsetting a slight decline in repair.
The operating profit decline was driven by pricing pressure and lower volume in Europe and the absence of favorable real estate gains in last year's third quarter which more than offset the benefit of cost reduction actions this quarter.
At constant currency new equipment orders were up 11% with over 20% growth in North America and in Europe which benefited from a major contract award in the U.K.
Although orders in China were down 2% in the quarter the rate of decline improved from the previous 2 quarters and Otis had solid order growth in September.
Guidance for the full year remains unchanged with profits expected to be down $175 million to $225 million on a mid-single digit sales decline.
On Slide 5.
UTC Climate Controls and Security once again saw a sharp increase in margin up 270 basis points from prior year at 15.4% as profits increased 5% on 13% lower sales.
Organic sales were down 2% as many of our end markets have not rebounded as we had previously expected.
While there were pockets of growth such as the Americas Residential HVAC business and China each up mid-single digit the balance of the business generally saw low-single digit declines.
Transicold was down high teens organically led by a 60% decline in container sales.
Despite the lack of organic sales growth CCS grew earnings 5% or 8% at constant currency.
Profit growth was driven by restructuring and productivity including savings from the consolidation of Carrier and Fire &amp; Security and favorable net commodity costs.
Global commercial HVAC orders were flat with growth in North America offset by a decline in Asia.
Transicold orders were down about 25% with container down about 90% partially offset by over 40% growth in North America truck/trailer.
Orders for global Fire &amp; Security products were up low-single digit.
Given current market softness fourth quarter organic growth could be softer than previously anticipated.
The CCS team continues to take preemptive action to offset the impact of lower organic sales but full year earnings guidance is under pressure.
Margin expansion for the year however will still be strong given the benefits from productivity cost reduction and portfolio transformation.
Turning to Aerospace on Slide 6.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney sales were up 16% in the third quarter driven by the consolidation of IAE and the auxiliary power business transferred from Hamilton Sundstrand.
Organically sales were down 1% year-over-year as higher military and Power Systems sales were more than offset by lower commercial aftermarket.
Lower commercial spares -- large commercial spare sales were down 25% year-over-year.
On a reported basis large commercial spare sales were up 9% including consolidated IAE sales.
Operating profit in the quarter was down 10%.
The impact of lower organic sales including large commercial spares higher E&amp;D and pension costs as well as unfavorable currency at Pratt Canada were partially offset by the benefits from the IAE consolidation restructuring savings and a supplier settlement of about $0.04 per share.
For the full year we now expect Pratt &amp; Whitney operating profit to be down $175 million to $200 million and sales up mid-single digit.
On Page 7 our new segment UTC Aerospace Systems including Hamilton Sundstrand and 2 months of Goodrich posted sales in the quarter of $2.7 billion with operating profit of $306 million.
Organic sales in the quarter were up 6% with OEM sales up high-single digit commercial aftermarket up mid-single digit and military aftermarket down 10%.
Total aftermarket trends at Goodrich business units were slightly below legacy Hamilton Sundstrand.
As Greg mentioned Goodrich had better-than-expected results in the quarter.
Organic operating profit at Aerospace Systems was down 5% after a strong first half which was up 16%.
The benefit from higher volume was more than offset by higher E&amp;D and pension costs and lower license fees.
With the benefit of approximately $50 million from lower-than-expected amortization we now expect UTC Aerospace Systems' operating profit for the full year to be up $275 million to $300 million on approximately $4 billion of higher sales.
Turning to Sikorsky on Slide 8.
Operating profit decreased 6% on 6% lower sales.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 62 aircraft.
54 aircraft were based on military platforms and 8 commercial.
Lower sales were driven by fewer international military aircraft deliveries.
On profit the impact from lower international military aircraft and transition to the new multiyear contract more than offset favorable commercial aircraft mix lower E&amp;D spend and restructuring benefits across the enterprise.
Of note Sikorsky has received FAA certification for the S-76D.
Deliveries will commence in the fourth quarter and Sikorsky already has a backlog of over $400 million for this aircraft.
For the full year we continue to expect profit growth of $50 million to $75 million and mid-single digit sales decline.
With that let me turn it over to Greg for wrap-up.
Okay thanks Jay.
Businesses are clearly seeing softening on the top line from these tough end market conditions but we remain focused on program execution and cost reduction the things that we can control.
At CCS we continue to make very good progress on the integration of legacy Carrier and F&amp;S businesses.
We're consolidating locations and back office functions and streamlining customer service processes.
We've saved over $50 million year-to-date without an impact on the customer and CCS continues to stabilize the U.K.
Fire &amp; Security business which grew profits for the second straight quarter.
Otis China is also making progress in regaining its leadership position.
On the Aerospace side the Goodrich integration is off to a very good start and as you heard from Alain Bellemare in September we are realizing synergy sooner than expected and there will be opportunities for more.
Pratt continues to win orders for the GTF and with an additional 546 firm and option orders in the quarter Pratt now has a backlog of nearly 3 000 engines.
And Sikorsky as you just heard from Jay achieved a major milestone this month certifying the S-76D with deliveries starting here in the fourth quarter.
The end market challenges are putting pressure on the business unit expectations for 2012 but with lower dilution from Goodrich we're confident in our guidance range of $5.25 to $5.35.
We continue to negotiate towards a win-win solution with the Canadian government for the Sikorsky Maritime Helicopter and we expect to provide you with an update at our December meeting.
And with strong cash generation you come to expect from us we now anticipate free cash flow will exceed net income for the year.
Okay.
Slide 10.
Let's talk a little bit about 2013.
Various [ph] framework for next year.
This is the same that we laid out in September with the exception of the Goodrich amortization.
With about $100 million of lower full year amortization we now expect nearly $0.60 of accretion next year from Goodrich compared with the $0.10 of dilution in 2012 and we continue to expect an incremental $0.05 benefit from a full year of IAE.
Turning to the base businesses.
We've got great products and we're well positioned in the right markets for long-term growth.
In addition to continuing growth from emerging markets we should see solid growth in 2013 in the commercial aerospace OEM and aftermarket in the U.S.
residential HVAC business and in the U.S.
commercial construction businesses.
We expect Europe to be essentially flat next year and we expect the declines in the U.S.
Defense spending to continue even without the impact of a potential sequestration.
Bottom line is that we're confident in our cost reduction and program execution and we have significant operating leverage should we see better-than-expected end market conditions.
Of course we still face some other significant headwinds in 2013.
As you heard from Mick Maurer back in September Sikorsky expects lower sales next year and 100 to 200 basis points of margin headwind before CMHP.
Now that's primarily due to the new Multi-Year 8 and the lower DOD spending that we've been talking about.
And of course we'll have about $300 million of pension headwind at the current discount rate of 3.8%.
We won't actually set the rate of course until year end but you know the math.
Every 10 basis points change in the rate costs us $28 billion.
To sum it up.
We've taken proactive aggressive restructuring actions this year.
Savings from these actions combined with lower engineering and development will drive earnings growth in 4 out of the 5 business units before pension and we will see about $0.75 of accretion from Goodrich and IAE year-over-year.
We feel well calibrated for this year.
The large deals are done and we're focused on integration and execution.
With our transformational deals the new organizational structure global industry-leading franchises and sustained structural cost reduction we're well positioned for long-term earnings growth and strong cash generation.
With that let's open up the call for questions.
Stephanie? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Let's start out over at Pratt.
And Greg I'm just wondering you had your meeting September 27 obviously very late in the quarter and you're lowering here by $75 million I think all due to spares.
So is it really -- I mean can we infer from that that really 2 weeks at the end of the quarter was responsible for the change in guidance or is it maybe just looking more to the fourth quarter? And also at Pratt if you could quantify that supplier payment? Yes so -- yes I think Dave laid it out pretty well back in September.
He said that we are not seeing the order rates to actually support the spares only down 10%.
So I think Dave was pretty forthright with everybody in saying that we're not seeing it.
And clearly in the last couple of weeks of September we did not see any recovery in spares and we haven't seen it as we sit here today.
So the takedown is all spares.
I think again it's unfortunate to take down the guidance late in the year but it is what it is on commercial spares.
I think the good news as we dissect the data the narrow-body platforms the V2500s and the 757s are actually -- have been recovering for a couple of quarters and where we see the weaknesses is primarily on the wide-body fleet and also in Europe.
So again not a surprise I think.
But it's clearly a tough market right now.
As far as the supplier payment that was about $45 million $46 million I think.
It's actually a settlement.
There was a legacy claim between Pratt and Goodrich which relates to the -- from the sale on the CSeries.
This had been in arbitration.
We had an independent arbiter come in and we settled the claim and that was actually recorded on Goodrich's balance sheet as of the close and Pratt recognized the benefit in this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly on Goodrich you mentioned that Goodrich earnings were better than expected.
Is that due to less amortization or is that real underlying performance? And what was -- I don't know if I missed it but what was the organic aftermarket growth at Goodrich during the quarter? Joe organic aftermarket for sales was slightly below HS.
HS had about mid-single digit growth in commercial aftermarket and Goodrich is a little bit below that.
As far as military aftermarket HS was down around 10% and Goodrich was down a little bit below that close to mid-teens.
And while we have the chance I just want to correct the statement that I made before related to Sikorsky on Slide 8.
I just want to clarify that operating profit decreased 6% on 12% lower sales.
Regarding the first part of your question as far as the underlying business Goodrich did do a little bit better than what we had expected.
Again there it was primarily Aero structures at the end of the quarter.
Things actually looked better.
But the amortization is clearly better.
The big piece in the quarter that was really these transaction-related costs which were better than what we had expected.
We took I'd say a very conservative view as we were looking at all of these costs and we had expected to expense some things that ended up on Goodrich's balance sheet so that helped by about $100 million and then you had better performance and a little bit better amortization.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research Partners.
I'm just wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on the Otis order strength in North America.
It sounds like Europe may be driven by the big metro project.
Maybe there's something else there elaborate on that also.
But what was going on in North America? Is it more than a one-off? No I think it's a trend that we have seen as a recovery in North America.
And we've seen the ABI or Architectural Billing Index be above 50 for the last couple of months here and actually seeing good traction in quarters there.
We got of course some new product introductions also that's helping on the -- in North America.
It's attacking some of the hydro [ph] markets.
So yes I think it's product introduction and a recovery there.
So that actually feels pretty good.
Europe well Europe is Europe.
We did get good traction out of the Crossrail project.
I think that's over 107 escalators for that London Crossrail.
But the rest of Europe is not a great story.
We saw down markets in France and Spain and Italy a little bit better in Germany.
But on the whole a pretty tough Europe market outside of the U.K.
And then when you look at China down 2% are you in position given kind of the comps and the trajectory to actually look positive on orders in Q4 or when do you see that happening if you can in fact crystallize a view? Yes my crystal ball is not terribly clear but I would tell you we should be seeing order growth resume in Q4.
As I said it earlier orders were down 2% but that was off of a very tough compare last year where orders were up 31% at constant currency.
So we are seeing a recovery.
Last year you'll recall China only grew 7% in the fourth quarter.
So again I think the trajectory that we saw in the -- coming out of the third quarter should continue into the fourth quarter.
I think Pedro and team feel very confident we're getting share back and they're on track for a full recovery there.
And just can you give us a little more granularity on China? Is it high-rise resi? Is it bigger projects central country? Just any other detail on what's going on would be helpful.
Yes I think it's actually really across the business we are seeing a recovery there.
The commercial HVAC business remains soft there.
I think some of the slowdowns that we've seen are actually playing out on the CCS side.
On the flip side residential's getting a little bit better.
We saw that at CCS on their GST business getting us some traction on order rates.
For Otis again I think the property market has started to stabilize and come back a little bit.
Still seeing good growth in the Tier 2 and 3 cities.
Tier 1 is still pretty challenged.
But again that's not a surprise.
It's a very uneven recovery in China.
Right.
And just finally just flipping over to Carrier.
It looks like your resi business underperformed from what I can see from a couple others who reported in the quarter.
Can you just give us some color on how you thought you did relative to the broader market and what's going on in the channels? Yes underperformance is a relative term Jeff.
I think and again we saw -- I think one of the competitors reported the other day that they had what looked like kind of mid-teens growth in the resi business.
But I think that was off of a very tough -- or very easy compare from 2011.
Carrier thinks they have held share hear this year.
They've done pretty well.
Channel inventories are very very light.
I think nobody wants to get stuck with inventory this time of year given all the uncertainty and the global economic situation and the fiscal cliff coming up so channel inventories are probably at some of the lowest levels we've seen.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick one -- actually a couple of quick ones.
On the transport refrigeration on the container side you said sort of down 90% which is sort of where you were at your Analyst Meeting.
Did you see any incremental order activity besides that little blip you called out in the meeting or are we still kind of bouncing along the bottom in that business? Well actually bouncing along the bottom is a relative term.
Yes I think we saw a little bit of good news post the Investor Meeting and we've seen some good news here in the fourth quarter.
We're almost 50% booked in the fourth quarter.
So orders and again they're very lumpy as we know in this business but yes I think it's -- it looks achievable in terms of the forecast we've got out there right now for this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the spare side I wondered if you might elaborate on a couple of other points.
In terms of the wide-bodies what you're seeing in terms of shop visits kind of year-over-year and also what you're seeing at Pratt Canada.
Yes so shop visits are a little soft on the wide-body fleet and this is again the PW4000 fleet.
I think the biggest impact is on the 747 fleet and probably a lesser impact on the 777 and A330 fleet out there.
But clearly we've seen lower shop visits.
But I think more importantly the average cost per shop is down substantially like 25% down.
So that's just gotten worse and not better from what we had seen earlier this year.
We're getting good traction as I said on the narrow-body fleet.
The Vs are up very strong the spares in the quarter and even the 2000s had a nice recovery for the last couple of quarters.
Pratt Canada spares were down low-single digit in the quarter Carter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And one final one.
You said Europe flat for next year is your kind of base case assumption.
Does that assume anything different in terms of FX for next year than what's baked into this year's guidance? No I think again -- FX I think is around $1.30 today.
We've actually put our plan together to $1.25 kind of euro right now as we're looking at guidance for the last couple of months.
So FX could actually be a bit of a tailwind next year versus what we've seen this year.
I think we're going to average $1.26 or something year-to-date I think so.
It could actually be a little bit of tailwind out of FX but who the heck knows? Our next question comes from Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> On CC&amp;S you had good margins there for the quarter.
Could you talk about where -- what the puts and takes were with respect to margin? You didn't change guidance for the year and I was also wondering if the margins were those above your expectations but being offset by weakness in the top line for the year? I guess that's exactly -- I mean margins were very strong.
We got about 1/3 of that came from the portfolio transformation but the rest of it really came from cost reduction -- product cost reduction and restructuring and cost takeout in the base business.
So I think again it's -- it looks like the margins for this year will be at least 14% or so.
So well on their way to the 15% goal that we've got out there.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And if you look across the business the Fire &amp; Security businesses and the individual parts within Carrier are there some that you would point to where you saw more improvement than others? In the field Doug both Europe and Asia were relatively flat from a sales perspective.
Orders for products were actually up low-single digit this quarter.
I think what you're seeing though Doug is really broad-based cost reduction.
I think again the structural cost takeout that we talked about is helping but we're also seeing good news out of the factories.
We're seeing good cost reduction out of the factories and that's both legacy F&amp;S as well as legacy Carrier businesses.
I think our margins are holding up quite well on the commercial side as well as on the resi side here in the U.S.
Obviously margin's under a little pressure at Transicold with volumes down as much as they are.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then on the restructuring the increase in restructuring cost for the year can you talk about where that's focused Aero versus the commercial businesses? We've got a lot of programs lined up here.
I think the biggest piece you'll probably see is going to be related to what we see is kind of this decline in Defense spending so Sikorsky will have a good share of that.
Pratt will pick up a big piece as well as UTAS or our Aerospace Systems business.
But again I would tell you there is restructuring appetite across all the businesses.
Otis continues to find ways to take costs out.
CCS again they're just starting on their journey from the structural cost reduction.
So you will see additional restructuring from each of the businesses.
And I would tell you when we started the year I didn't see the appetite for $300 million let alone $600 million for restructuring.
And today there's appetite for more than $600 million.
So again I think that's -- just tells you how focused these guys are on cost reduction.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Greg I realize how challenged it's been to forecast earnings and still stay within the range.
And so the harder question is could you help us a little bit with cash and sort of give us a walk as to where you are with the debt paydown plans please? Sure.
Yes so cash actually came in about what we expected.
We got about 105% of net income.
We're at 100% of net income year-to-date.
The cash machine continues to chug right along.
And I think for the year we have solid visibility.
We will nicely exceed net income and cash flow for the year.
As far as the debt paydown I think we're still on track.
We expect to close on the Hamilton industrial businesses kind of early December time frame.
We got a $2 billion term loan that we'll pay down.
We've got about $4 billion of commercial paper and then we'll pay down probably another $1 billion of other debt this year so -- and most of that -- the rest of that cash will come from overseas.
So again we've got a line of sight to I'll say about $7 billion of debt paydown by the end of the year.
And something might slip into the first quarter but I think clearly line of sight for the $7 billion.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And related to that I mean looks like you did -- I mean you had a terrific number on well you haven't closed yet on electrical products but based on sort of the filing it would seem to me that you're going to more than exceed your forecast on some of the other divestitures.
Is that a fair way to think about it? Yes I think the market for these businesses is much stronger than was originally anticipated.
And it's not -- I guess it shouldn't be surprising because they're really good franchises and franchises like the EPS business -- Electric Power Business at Goodrich don't come on the market very often.
So we had a very robust bidding process for that business as well as for the Engine and Controls business that's located here in West Hartford.
That bidding process is also robust.
It's moving right along.
So I'd say we'll be at the high end of our expectation range for both of those businesses.
But again good solid businesses great products and technology.
I hate to lose them but again part of the regulatory process.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then related to corporate overhead I mean it looks as if you've been able to put together United Technologies and Goodrich and not really increase the overhead a whole heck of a lot.
Have I -- are there some other gains or anything in there or what should we think about that in terms of going forward? Oh yes clearly as we put the Goodrich business together with Hamilton we have seen or will see about $50 million of cost synergies this year.
A big piece of that is public company costs.
So I think Alain as you would expect is focused on a lean organization.
We're not having a lot of overhead.
And you're going to see that I think play out next year as well as we continue to see solid cost reduction out of the Goodrich business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then finally you talked about avoiding a lot of transaction costs in the quarter and that was pretty helpful and then you're talking about increasing restructuring.
Did those 2 items sort of in the end offset each other? Yes I think if you think about it we picked up about $0.10 on the Goodrich dilution this year and we picked up about $0.04 on the tax rate.
You can offset that.
We lost about $0.08 on restructuring and we lost about $0.06 on the Pratt guidance reduction so $75 million.
So $14 million good $14 million bad.
It just kind of offset just naturally if you will.
Our next question comes from Heidi Wood from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to CC&amp;S for a minute Greg and again put a little finer point on it.
It looks like you were saying to an earlier question that you anticipate maintaining profitability going forward but then you have some of the more profitable businesses which have been rather weak.
So wouldn't that intimate that you could do even on potentially very slow revenue upside next year better margins? Yes I think you will see better margins next year at CCS.
Again it's a little early to call the markets next year.
But generally I think Geraud and team feel pretty confident we should see a recovery at Transicold next year especially on the container side.
I think the U.S.
resi business again with housing starts up should recover next year.
Commercial side and the U.S.
ought to do better.
So I think we're well on track.
Again I said 14% this year.
15% is the goal by '15.
They're well on their way to getting there.
Research Division</strong> Well that's what I'm trying to drive to.
I mean you could get there quite a bit earlier.
I mean again just given that you had some of the more profitable stuff down and you've been doing the restructuring on an ongoing basis so you'll start to get those benefits as early as next year or is there some part of that I'm not getting right? No I think you're right on it.
Again I'm hesitant to say we're going to get to 15% next year because again who knows what happens in the end markets.
I think Geraud and team have done a great job this year managing in what is a very very tough macro environment.
They've taken out costs they've driven up margins they've done their portfolio rationalization and they're going to hit that 14% this year.
Can they hit 15% next year? Maybe.
But I think again that's a great question maybe for Louis in December or better yet for Geraud next March.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then on -- turning on to Sikorsky I just want to tease those businesses out a little bit better to understand the kind of puts and takes you're seeing there Greg.
Can you give us a little color on your aftermarket expectations in military and sort of your outlook for international military orders looking ahead? International military...
Let's just talk about military spares.
Military spares obviously it's a tough market right now down at Sikorsky.
And we expect that that will be headwind again next year.
Again not a surprise with the optempo coming down in Afghanistan.
And the uncertainty down at DOD I think we've seen a reluctance of the procurement officers to go out and make advanced buys with all the uncertainty out there coming to a head in January.
So those spares have been under pressure and they will remain under pressure next year.
As far as military aircraft you'll recall that Mick during September said that part of the international military deliveries got pushed into 2014 because of the finalization -- delay in finalization of Multi-Year 8 contract signing.
Research Division</strong> Jay what I meant was orders.
You guys have a number of campaigns out there.
Can you bring us up to speed on the campaigns? Yes I would tell you that there is a robust process there on the international side.
I think we're seeing good traction in South America.
We're seeing good traction in the Middle East.
We're seeing good traction in India.
I think again you'll see international Blackhawk the S-70i out of Mielec should start to pick up next year.
And the deliveries really -- I think Mick has clear line of sight to 2014 to see a large increase in these international Blackhawk deliveries.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Greg I was hoping you could make it a little simpler for me in terms of into 2013 with Goodrich and IAE.
You increased or lowered the dilution for Goodrich for 2012 and you previously talked about a $0.75 EPS swing '12 into '13.
Is that $0.75 still intact or are we now talking about a lower swing because 2012 showed up better? No no it's well -- I think the math is I would say it's complicated.
But the fact is we have $0.10 of dilution now and Goodrich this year and $0.60 of accretion.
So net-net year-over-year you ought to get a $0.70 benefit because of Goodrich plus 5% on IAE.
We previously had talked about $0.20 of dilution this year and $0.50 of accretion next year.
The fact is next year it gets better because of lower amortization costs lower than expected.
So that gives you -- it takes you from the $0.50 to the $0.60 and that benefit also helps this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on spares Greg I think you said high teens organic declines.
Could you separate -- create the differential on the organic declines between for the full year what you're seeing on the 2500s versus the wide-bodies? And then also the wide-bodies can you parse out what's just been retired and taken out of the fleet that never comes back? Yes I can't give you the kind of granularity in terms of what may have been retired.
I think it clearly is as we were talking earlier the 747-400s the PW4000s those have been probably the hardest hit.
Now whether some of those have been retired or not I couldn't tell you.
Clearly flying hours are down on that fleet.
On the other hand you see 777s again the 4000 those are 112 inch.
Those the flying hours are actually up.
We just have seen the airlines be very reticent to spend a lot of money at repairing the engines as they've come back.
So again I think 747-400s are probably the hardest hit and then 777s less so.
And then again real solid recovery on the Vs as we had expected when we bought IAE.
Research Division</strong> So it's full year '12 though for the Vs mid-single digit declines? Say that one more time.
Research Division</strong> If you just separated out the V2500 organic spares for 2012 what did that look like? I think you actually see an increase.
Yes for the full year Myles you should probably see an increase anywhere between low- to mid-single digit.
And really we're benefiting again from the higher cycles as you know on narrow-bodies.
Research Division</strong> And then the last one was the Pratt settlement previously in the guidance or was it kind of concluded post the guidance? No I think we had known about this for some time so that was contemplated in the numbers.
Our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So this year the Goodrich yes maybe you could walk us through.
So you said $50 million kind of lower intangibles.
Maybe -- and what you had -- R&amp;D was $101 million.
So presumably that was an accounting conformity negative.
So maybe walk us through kind of what are the step-up in intangibles this year for Goodrich? What should we think about for next year? You said $100 million lower but from what to what? What should the accounting conformity be this year and next year? And you mentioned synergies $50 million.
What is it next year? And what is the restructuring? Is any of the incremental restructuring there at Goodrich? Okay.
Let's start out with the amortization for this year.
I think we have seen lower amortization.
So I think there was $140 million of amortization we now expect for the year.
I think -- I'm sorry that's for the quarter the $140 million? $140 million was the absolute number of amortization in the third quarter.
In the third quarter $130 million of that was from inventory step-up.
About $10 million of that was the net of inventory intangible amortization.
So again you should see that inventory will repeat again in fourth quarter as well as the intangible amortization.
Next year there's no inventory amortization.
I think that's all behind us.
So what you're down to is about $50 million of intangible amortizations net next year.
Yes.
Cai the best way to look at it if you recall the charts that we've shown we've lumped amortization and accounting conformity together it's $500 million previously.
The best way to look at it is that now goes to $400 million the combination of those 2 items.
LLC Research Division</strong> So let's just stick with this course.
So we have $100 million this quarter of accounting conformity because I guess I'm a little confused.
If you had $140 million of accounting intangibles and step up $100 million of accounting conformity and synergies a little tough for me to see how you got to breakeven? Well again I think the $100 million is really the run rate for the accounting conformity.
Yes.
Cai $100 million is the total E&amp;D at Goodrich.
Part of that E&amp;D always went to the P&amp;L.
It was just put into SG&amp;A in their form of reporting.
So the piece -- I can't tell you -- I don't know what that piece is just on an accounting-conformity basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
And then -- so we're really going to get like a $280 million swing next year because you're going to lose the inventory step-up is all this year correct? That's right.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then on the restructuring.
You said $100 million given you've taken your total restructuring up.
Is Goodrich still $100 million and what should we think about for next year? The Goodrich restructuring this year is closer to about $150 million.
We said I think next year in a range of $100 million.
As far as amortization though Cai we just have to recall that next year is 12 months versus 5 months this year on amortization.
LLC Research Division</strong> So what is the number? I think Greg said what was...
Yes $50 million of amortization next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> For the whole year? For the whole year.
Our next question comes from Ron Epstein from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> When we think about going into the fourth quarter and we think about what you guys are implying about where fourth quarter -- the fourth quarter numbers will be compared year-over-year I think they kind of really decelerate into the fourth quarter.
Is that how we should be thinking about it or you're just being conservative? Or how should we think about the fourth quarter number? So I think what you're going to see is you see pretty good acceleration in the base businesses.
The segment results should be better.
I think you'll see solid growth at CCS.
You'd see over $100 million of earnings growth there.
You should see a little bit of growth come back at Otis.
I guess Sikorsky should have a very big fourth quarter.
They've got almost 100 helicopters to deliver.
So base business is actually going to do very very well here in the fourth quarter.
I think we got confidence that we're going to hit that number.
The downside I think as you think about fourth quarter actual EPS is you got about $0.25 of headwind in the fourth quarter from restructuring.
And not surprising.
We've got about $270 million of restructuring to go.
We've spent $330 million so far.
So you're going to see a big $0.25 or so of net restructuring in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe over to Sikorsky real quick.
Any more color on what's going on with the Canadian Maritime Helicopter and where that negotiation with the Canadian government is? I'd like to say we're making good progress.
What we want here and I said it before we need a win-win on this with the Canadian government.
Obviously we're disappointed we haven't been able to deliver the helicopters.
We're building them right now down at West Palm.
We'd expected to build 5 -- build and deliver 5 this year build and deliver 19 next year.
We're well on our way for all those helicopters.
But until we have an agreement with the Canadian government in terms of the final configuration and an interim configuration we really can't ship anything.
So as I sit here today I tell you we don't have a solution.
I certainly hope by the time Louis stands up in early December we can give you guys some more clarity on it.
But right now all I know is that we need to continue to work with the Canadians to find a win-win here.
We're ready to deliver the 5 aircraft.
It's just a matter of letting this negotiation play out.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Then maybe just one last quick one on Aero aftermarket.
Do you have a sense for what impact cargo has had versus passenger? Meaning is your cargo business much more off than your passenger business? Yes Ron I really don't have a lot of granularity between cargo versus regular.
I would tell you that cargo's not a big piece of the fleet.
And the hours on cargo are much lower than the hours that we see on the regular commercial flight so the overhaul cycle is much much longer.
So haven't really seen a pronounced impact from cargo versus commercial.
Research Division</strong> The reason I ask is if you go back a couple of years after '08 Goodrich had a couple of rough quarters largely due to cargo so I'm just trying to get a sense for what impact it's having now.
I have not heard that either from the Pratt team or the Aerospace Systems team.
We'll check it out and we'll get back to you.
Our next question comes from George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Greg I just wanted to get to this Goodrich dilution a little differently.
In the 8-K you said the pro forma for '11 was $0.50 a share accretion and now you've upped it to $0.60 in '13.
So what are the variables that go into that added $0.10 from '11 to '13? Obviously there's cost saves and whatever there's some growth in the business but if you could spell out the differences? I think again if you think about that $0.50 versus the $0.60 really the only difference is lower net amortization for next year.
I mean this year we had deal costs and we had little better performance in the business as well as lower amortization.
But next year we're really we're getting about -- we're getting north of $100 million of lower amortization more like about -- well almost $0.10 I guess of lower amortization costs probably $120 million $130 million of lower amortization costs.
Now that's relative to 2011 I'm asking not '12.
Because you've provided the pro forma numbers in the 8-K that you disclosed a couple of weeks ago and that showed $0.50 accretion in '11 on the pro forma so I was asking for the comparison '11 to '13? Yes we're just looking at it here.
Yes.
George I think we're going to have to get back to you on that.
I have not gone back into these pro formas.
I haven't really focused on 2011 very much since well since last year.
But we can go back and took a look and get an answer for you.
Okay.
And then the other one is you said IAE will be accretive $0.05 next year but it was accretive $0.03 this quarter so why is it only $0.05 next year? Because you get another 1/2 a year.
So you're going to get $0.05 of accretion this year and another $0.05 next year.
So $0.10 in total next year $0.05 incrementally.
Our next question comes from Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Greg just on the 2013 outlook you've put the commercial aerospace aftermarket as a positive.
Is that looking on a reported basis because of the inclusion of IAE or is this looking at it on organic basis? No that's on an organic basis Rob.
I mean again if you think about Pratt spares being down high teens we've seen Hamilton Sundstrand legacy down we've seen Goodrich down a little bit.
I think just based on what we're seeing from a flying hours perspective we know that we're going to see the spares come back and I think it's just a matter of timing.
And I don't know if that's first quarter second quarter or third quarter of next year or even fourth quarter of this year but spares will come back.
So we've got high confidence we're going to see good news on the commercial aero aftermarket organically next year not just the addition of the acquisitions.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just follow-up on the aftermarket.
You've given us quite a lot of detail on what you're seeing at Pratt with the wide-bodies.
I was wondering if you could explain maybe what's going on in Hamilton Sundstrand and Goodrich and why the orders there and the spares there are a bit soft relative to flight hours maybe.
Yes I think that's the $64 000 question at Aerospace.
Again Pratt we've got much better visibility because it's all time-based overhauls primarily.
So we know the schedule when these engines are supposed to come back.
And for the most part they're coming back as we had expected because they're putting the flying hours on.
On the Goodrich and the Hamilton legacy that is all condition-based.
They're on-condition repairs.
So in other words if you have a failure in the field you're going to see the units come back in.
And quite frankly these LRUs the Line Replaceable Units the airlines do have inventory of these various parts that Hamilton and Goodrich make and they're bringing down inventory we believe and not sending everything back for repair.
So again I think we will see just based upon flying hours a recovery there to a more normal kind of 5% to 7% growth year-over-year starting next year on the Aerospace Systems side.
But this year I think it's just all about airline cash conservation.
Our next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Greg in terms of next year when you think about the noncash and the cash items I mean you're going to have a fair amount of noncash stuff running through with the pension and the amortization.
Are there any big kind of cash offsets in terms of pension contributions or working capital dynamics in the businesses? I think there's 2 offsets that we have to keep in mind and we still have to manage.
One is there's an appetite for additional inventory to support the build on the commercial OE side.
So again I think we see pressure at Pratt &amp; Whitney.
We see pressure at the Aerospace Systems side for inventory.
And we also see an appetite for those businesses for CapEx.
And I think that's again something we need to meter out effectively.
We need to make sure that we take full advantage of all the facilities that we now have between Pratt and legacy Hamilton and Goodrich.
So like I think -- initially everybody wants to build everything new buy everything new.
We just need to think about that and we'll come back with a specific guidance.
But I'll tell you there's pressure on CapEx and there's pressure on working capital specifically inventory.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And pension contributions? Again we made $200 million of pension contributions this year because cash as I said has been very strong.
It's actually a good place to put our money.
We get an 8% return on it in the pension plan.
But we have no funding requirements under the ERISA rules until at least 2015.
And quite frankly we're 84% funded at the pension plan today and if I get to a discount rate of 5.5% which is where we were 2 years ago we'd be fully funded.
So the last thing we want to do is throw more cash into the pension plan.
Research Division</strong> And then just can you explain a little more why the Goodrich amortization went down? I mean did you assign a lower value to something that would have been amortized? Could you just explain that a little more? Yes I think what we found is there were some several contracts in the legacy Goodrich business which were in loss-making positions.
And as we've changed the accounting to our accounting conformity we were -- we had to recognize those losses upfront.
So we actually provided for that as a liability if you will going forward.
That's now getting amortized and offsetting some of the other intangibles.
Again we initially had not expected to set up this liability if you will for these loss-making contracts.
If you remember the Goodrich accounting they took a look at the contract over its life and had a very very long-term view.
We've got let's say like an 8-year life for looking at these contracts that are loss-making.
So we amortize the intangibles on these loss-making contracts over that 8-year period.
Our next question comes from Julian Mitchell from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes my first question was just on the Otis operating profit progression so I guess you had pretty high decrementals in the sort of mid-high 30% range in Q2 and Q3.
You're saying that profit should grow though year-on-year in Q4 even though your revenues are probably down.
So I guess I'm trying to figure out what's going on in the cost base.
Is it to do with mix that you think European aftermarket maybe is now stabilizing in Q4 or is it that you've added a lot of costs in places like China and that kind of hiring is now coming to an end so you get a natural lift on incrementals or something? Really there's 2 things that impacted first half of the decrease in margins.
Part of that was pricing we've talked about that.
I think we've probably seen $75 million year-to-date of pricing impacts about 1/2 of that in Europe.
We also had commodity headwind in the first half of the year related to the rare earth.
Again that was something that probably started playing out last year and really by the middle of this year by third quarter had gone away but certainly hurt first half margins.
We've added a little bit of cost on the SG&amp;A line.
But again that's just positioning Otis to take advantage of what's going on over in China.
We've moved the businesses' strategy development to Shanghai.
We've opened up the high-rise CLC in Shanghai.
So there are a little bit of investment but really the story is in the first half has been pricing and it's been commodities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly switching to your 2013 outlook.
I just wondered the commercial Aero OEM side that comes up in sort of a plus and a minus.
Is that just the difference between regions or wide-body versus narrow-body or...
No the reason we put commercial Aero OEM up there is a positive.
Certainly on the revenue line it will be a positive.
There will be some headwind from negative margins and some of the -- especially on the engine side I think especially probably on the -- there will be the A380 the GP7000 engine.
They basically ramped up production at Airbus we'll see some headwind there.
So good news on the top line not as much on the bottom line.
Our final question comes from Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a clarification once again on Goodrich.
You had said in your prepared remarks that it's $125 million better.
But then the I guess Aerospace Systems business you're saying is only $50 million better for the year.
What's the gap in there did you bring down for Hamilton? The other piece Sam is related to the deal cost that Greg mentioned and that is in corporate elims.
So the $125 million a piece of it is in the segment and a piece of it is in UTC corporate elims.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the growth in the receivables of about $1 billion in inventories almost $2 billion how much of that would be the core business versus just layering in Goodrich and I guess IAE as well? Yes most of that build is actually Goodrich and IAE.
I don't know if I've got the exact numbers down here but actually let us get back to you Sam on that.
Because again I think the large majority of those additional AR and inventory all that working capital is really related to the acquisitions.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last thing is on the order rates as we look into the fourth quarter.
You've already mentioned North American or just CCS easy comps.
It looks like Pratt large commercial also has pretty easy comps.
And even Otis new equipment isn't that bad.
I mean should we be seeing positive bookings across all the segments in the fourth quarter? I would think so with the exception perhaps at Transicold.
Again I think last year fourth quarter was still pretty strong at Transicold.
So that's a pretty lumpy business as I said.
So that would be the one caveat I would say to order rates.
Everything else again I think we had seen a pretty slow fourth quarter last year on the order intake side so should be pretty easy compares both at Otis and the Aero businesses.
LLC Research Division</strong> And Pratt commercial spares if you have the same dollar amount in this third quarter versus the easy compare in fourth quarter would we actually see bookings up next year -- I mean next quarter? I'm sorry if we had orders in the...
LLC Research Division</strong> Similar dollars.
If it was just sequentially flat in the December quarter from the September quarter do we end up with a positive comparison? No Sam.
You would be down.
Last year was pretty flat throughout the year.
Okay.
I want to thank everybody for listening.
I know it's again a lot of stuff going on in UTC here.
We'll see you guys all in December next for Louis' annual guidance.
We're going to continue to focus on what we do best.
We're going to focus on integration we're going to make sure we're accelerating on cost reduction and we're going to focus on outperforming the peers.
And that's what we do every day here.
So thanks everybody and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies' fourth quarter conference call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jay Malave Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTC's website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and one-time items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTC's SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to two questions per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself into the queue and we will answer as time permits.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning everyone.
We saw in the press release this morning no surprises.
UTC closed out a transformational 2012 just as Louis laid out for you in December.
Full-year sales were just under $58 billion that was up 4% from 2011.
That of course was driven by the Goodrich and IAE acquisitions.
Earnings per share was $5.35 and that included about $0.50 of headwind from FX pension and E&amp;B.
For the year Goodrich is only about $0.06 dilutive a little better than what we had expected due to lower amortization financing and one-time deal costs and more importantly better underlying performance in the Goodrich business.
Free cash flow was again strong at 108% of net income attributable to common share owners and we paid down about third of the Goodrich debt just as we had planned.
As we all know 2012 was a challenging global economic environment and while there is still plenty of uncertainty ahead for 2013 in both Europe and the U.S.
we have seen signs of stabilization particularly in Europe and we have started to see a gradual recovery in the U.S.
Economy led by a rebound in housing market.
We continue to expect solid growth in emerging markets throughout the coming year.
As you have come to expect from UTC we just didnt wait for the economy to recover.
We proactively leveraged our scale and optimized our cost structure while we continue to invest in game changing technologies all the while transforming the portfolio to take advantage of the growth opportunities over the next decade in our core markets of aerospace and commercial buildings.
We also took the difficult actions this past year reducing our structural overhead cost and focusing on global growth markets.
In 2012 we invested nearly $600 million in restructuring of which $258 million was in the fourth quarter alone as the businesses continued to find solid payback projects to reduce costs and position us for earnings growth this year and beyond.
Okay slide two.
Turning to fourth-quarter results.
Total sales increased 14% again driven by Goodrich and IAE.
Organic sales were flat in the quarter a slight improvement from our third quarter results.
Segment operating profit was also flat although Climate Controls &amp; Security had a very strong quarter with 17% operating profit growth on flat organic sales.
As expected Sikorsky did not ship any of the Canadian maritime helicopters in the fourth quarter but we did record a charge of $157 million related to costs associated with the program delay as we now expect.
While we are continuing discussions with the Canadian government we are also encouraged by the progress we have made since Louis spoke to you in December.
There is nothing new to report today but we are cautiously optimistic and Mick will provide you with a full update in March.
We are also maintaining our place order of eight aircraft deliveries for 2013 at Sikorsky and there is no change to the projected P&amp;L impact of those deliveries.
If you recall thats a loss of lot about $14 million per aircraft.
Right back to Q4.
Segment operating margins was down 200 basis points with a CMHP charge in Goodrich acquisition each accounting for about 100 basis points of the headwind.
Restructuring savings and productivity benefits offset a $140 million of headwind from pension E&amp;D and FX.
Fourth quarter earnings per share was $1.04.
That includes $0.25 of restructuring and one-time charges.
The restructuring was spread across the business units including $75 million of UTC Aerospace Systems as they continue to make good progress with the Goodrich admiration.
Excluding restructuring one-time items in the fourth quarter of both years' earnings per share decreased about 9%.
The tax rate was 30.1% a little better than we expected back in December but still a $0.08 headwind versus last year.
Free cash flow very strong 139% of net income great performance especially as we contributed nearly $200 million in cash for international pension plans.
Moving to slide three order trends.
As you can see they are showing signs of improvement.
Pratt &amp; Whitney's large commercial spares orders were up 46% in the quarter including the additional share of IAE.
Excluding that incremental share Pratt's orders were down 8% however 21% decline in the third quarter.
Legacy Hamilton Sundstrand commercial spares orders were down 4% following a 6% decline in the third quarter but importantly book-to-bill for both Pratt and Aerospace Systems was over 1% for the quarter so the rate of decline has moderated at the Aerospace Systems unit and we saw a good order growth across the commercial businesses in the fourth quarter.
UTC climate controls and securities North American residential HVAC orders were up 20%.
Global commercial HVAC orders grew 7% in constant currency.
And at Otis new equipment orders were up 13% at the same basis.
And importantly Otis saw a new equipment order in China grow 17% at constant currency as they continue to gain momentum there.
Orders also grew in North America up 18% while not surprisingly Europe was down slightly.
We also saw solid growth in emerging markets.
The combined BRIC order for the commercial business units were up 11% this quarter so order trends broadly improving a good leading indicator for UTC's return to organic growth in 2013.
I'll get back in a second to talk about 2013 but let me turn it over to Jay to take you through the business unit results.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to page four Otis operating profit was down 5% on flat sales in the quarter.
Foreign currency translation reduced sales and profit by one and two points respectively.
Operating margin was 21.9% 110 basis points lower than prior year.
At constant currency new equipment sales were down slightly as growth in China and the Americas was offset by declines in Europe and the rest of Asia.
Service was up low single-digit led by growth in modernization and contractual maintenance.
Lower volume and continued pricing pressure in Europe more than offset the benefit of ongoing cost reduction and profit growth in the rest of the world.
As Greg mentioned at constant currency new equipment orders were up 13% with double digit growth in all areas except Europe where orders were down slightly.
China orders for the quarter were up 17% solid improvement after being down 11% over the first three quarters of the year.
For the full year profit was down 7% and 3% lower sales.
At constant currency profit fell 3% on flat sales.
We expect the improving new equipment order rates especially in China in the aggressive cost reduction and restructuring actions taken over the past year to result in the return to profit growth in 2013.
On slide 5 climate controls and security drove profits up 17% on 6% lower sales resulting in another sharp increase in margins up 270 basis points from prior year to 13.7%.
Organic sales were flat overall with mixed results across the businesses.
Mid-single digit growth in the Americas led by solid growth in residential HVAC was offset by low double-digit and mid-single digit declines in Transicold and the U.S.
Security business respectively.
Asia and EMEA were flattish.
CCS had another solid quarter of earnings growth despite flat organic sales.
Profit growth was driven by restructuring and productivity including savings from the consolidation of Carrier and Fire &amp; Security lower commodity cost and a $22 million special dividend from a distribution partner.
Global commercial HVAC orders were up 7% driven by a sharp uptick in China towards the end of the year.
Transicold orders were flattish with container down about 10% offset by growth in Europe and North America truck trailer.
Commercial refrigeration orders in Europe were down high single-digit given economic conditions in that region while orders for global Fire &amp; Security products were up low single-digit.
Current order rates are consistent with our expectations for a gradual resumption of organic sales growth at CCS this year.
For the full year 2012 CCS grew earnings by $116 million or 5% on flat organic sales.
With operating margin at 14.1% up 190 basis points from prior year.
CCS is well positioned to achieve 15% margin in 2013 two years ahead of target.
Turning to aerospace on slide six.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney sales were up 12% in the fourth quarter driven by the consolidation of IAE and the AeroPower business.
Organically sales were down 4% year-over-year as Higher Military Pratt &amp; Whitney Canada and Power System sales were more than offset by lower commercial aftermarket.
Large commercial spare sales were down 18% organically year-over-year.
On a reported basis large commercial spares were up 30% including consolidated IAE sales.
Operating profit in the quarter was down 25%.
The impact from lower organic sales of large commercial spares unfavorable engine mix and higher E&amp;D and pension costs were partially offset by the benefits from the IAE consolidation and restructuring savings.
Also the prior year included the benefit of about $0.04 from a contract termination.
Commercial spares orders were down 8% organically and up 46% including the benefit from the IAE consolidation.
Embraer's recent selection of the GTF to power the second generation E-Jet family is another significant endorsement of the technology.
Even with small incremental E&amp;D from this win Pratt &amp; Whitney still expects to increase profit by 100% to 150% on mid to high single-digit sales growth in 2013.
UTC Aerospace Systems which includes the Hamilton Sundstrand business and the full quarter of Goodrich finished the year strong with sales in the quarter up $3.2 billion and operating profit of $339 million.
Organic sales in the quarter were up 4% with OEM sales up high single-digit commercial aftermarket up mid-single-digit and military aftermarket down mid single-digit.
On a pro forma basis Goodrich sales in the quarter were flattish.
Orders for commercial spares were up sequentially both at the legacy Hamilton Sundstrand and Goodrich businesses.
Organic operating profit in the quarter at Aerospace Systems was flattish with the benefit of higher volume offset by higher E&amp;D and pension costs.
The EPS impact from Goodrich in the quarter was neutral to UTC's results.
Turning to Sikorsky on slide eight.
Operating profit decreased 20% on 3% higher sales.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 91 aircraft.
77 aircrafts were based on military platforms and 14 commercial.
Higher sales were driven by international military and commercial aircraft volumes partially offset by lower aftermarket sales and the absence of two Canadian maritime helicopters in 2011.
Operating profit benefited from higher international military and commercial aircraft deliveries but was more than offset by the charge taken on the CMH program.
For the year Sikorsky delivered 243 aircrafts including the CMH charge operating profit of $765 million was down 7% on 8% lower sales.
Accordingly we are updating Sikorsky's 2013 operating profit guidance.
We now expect profit to be down $100 million to $150 million versus our prior guidance of about down $250 million to $300 million.
Despite the earnings decline in 2013 Sikorsky is well positioned.
We announced $10.9 billion of orders in 2012 and ended the year with a record backlog of over $14 billion including Denmark's selection of our MH-60R for its maritime helicopter replacement program and orders for more than 35 aircrafts in the fourth quarter.
With that let me turn it over to Greg for wrap up.
So close to 2012 that was essentially in line with our expectations and importantly order rates that have been coming our of the fourth quarter that give us confidence as we head into 2013.
Before I talk about 2013 let me just spend a minute on some of the accomplishments for 2012 and obviously 2012 was a transformational year for UTC as we repositioned the portfolio to focus on those key growth markets of aerospace and commercial buildings but businesses had some other big accomplishments.
Pratt &amp; Whitney made great progress in developing the GTF and bringing this disruptive technology to market.
We have now completed nearly 4 200 hours and more than 12 400 cycles of full engine testing.
We recently completed the final significant tests on the C-Series engine including the FAA mandate of 150 hour endurance test and we expect to certify this engine shortly.
As you saw the GTF has also been selected to power Embraer's second generation E-Jet family the fifth airframe manufacture to use our technology.
This is a big win for Pratt &amp; Whitney and solidifies our position in the regional jet market well into the future.
And with nearly 3 000 firm and option engines in backlog airline customers have embraced the lower fuel burn emissions noise and operating cost of the GTF technology.
At UTC Aerospace Systems the integration of Goodrich is progressing well.
We've deployed a customer-facing organization with a single point of contact for our key customers around the globe and we've conducted innovative program reviews with many of these customers.
We are developing new solutions based on the best technology from each of the legacy organizations and we've achieved over $60 million in cost synergies in 2012 and we are well on pace to achieve nearly half of the $400 million in synergies by the end of this year.
At Sikorsky we secured BLACK HAWK demand for the next five years of the Multi-Year 8 contract part of a record $10.9 billion in orders of Sikorsky in 2012.
The climate controls and security team integrated the carrier and Fire &amp; Security businesses seamlessly.
Nearly $100 million in savings in 2012 help CCS grow operating profit 5% despite flat organic sales with 14.1% operating margins they are well ahead of the schedule on their goal to 15% by 2015 and Otis continues to regain momentum in China.
Although new equipment sales declined 2% in 2012 orders grew 17% in the fourth quarter.
As orders continues to win significant projects such as the Guangzhou Fortune Center where we're going to sell 49 elevators include Gen2 and double-deck units.
Otis is well positioned in China entering 2013 with a $1.5 billion backlog so good progress with the business units despite the challenging macroeconomic environment in 2012.
As we look at 2013 really not much change to the expectation that Louis laid out in December.
We continue to expect 2013 earnings per share of $5.85 to $6.15 on sales of $64 billion to $65 billion.
That's organic growth of 3% to 5%.
That has some positive developments since our December meeting the pension cost came in a little better than expected with a discount rate of 3.9 versus our plan of 3.8 and we have planned return last year the domestic plan of 14% and there are two pieces of the Tax Extenders that were passed as part of The American Taxpayer Relief Act in January which will benefit us in 2013.
First the benefit from the 2012 E&amp;D extenders will provide us with the first quarter pre-tax benefit of around $100 million.
This will drop the tax rate of the quarter and offset some of our restructuring investments this year.
For the we now expect $300 million of restructuring offset by one-time gains and that's up from the previous estimate 200 million.
The 2012 piece of the Tax Extender who partially offset a tough compare in the first quarter 2011 which you will recall had $0.21 of gain in excess of restructuring.
The second piece of the Tax Extender to 2013 benefit will be booked throughout the year and will reduce our 2013 tax rate to about 29% which is our initial expectation of 29.5.
We're also keeping an eye on FX.
Europe remains a question mark but we have seen some recent upside to our plan of the euro U.S.
dollar exchange rate of 128 with euro averaging about 1.32 so far so a little bit of good news.
So in summary we're seeing good news on pension FX and the Tax Extenders and that gives us some additional contingency for 2013 but I'll just remind everybody it is early and there's still a lot of uncertainty in some of our key end markets particularly Europe and the aerospace aftermarket.
Our plan as you recall is based on 3% to 5% organic growth.
Now although order trends have been improving commercial spares where we are yet to attain our growth assumption of mid-single digit in Pratt and about 10% in Aerospace Systems.
And with the continued fiscal uncertainty in Washington and the threat of sequestration we remain cautious early in the year.
Turning to cash flow very strong close to 2012 with free cash flow of 108% of net income for the year we made significant progress on debt reduction delivered our commitment by paying down about a third of the Goodrich-related debt in 2012.
We've paid down the $2 billion term loan all of the commercial paper and about $800 million of the Goodrich debt.
In 2013 combination of solid cash flow performance in proceeds for the remaining divestitures will position us well to pay down additional debt and to fund our share repurchase program which we restarted this January.
There's been an increase in investment for the aerospace OEM ramp.
We expect free cash flow equal to or excess of net income.
2012 was a transformational year for UTC and as we entered 2013 with a stronger portfolio we are positioned to outperform.
Our end markets are showing improvement and we are focused on integration execution and delivering the EPS growth that you've come to expect from UTC.
Just one final point before I open it up for Q&amp;A.
I know there was a lot of questions and concerns about the 787.
And as you guys know we're a key supplier on the 787.
Although we do not supply the lithium ion battery or the battery charger we are supporting both Boeing and the NTSB in their ongoing investigation.
The 787 went through the most rigorous certification process in aviation history.
We are highly confident in the design and the performance of the aircraft.
While reviewing the ongoing review by regulatory authorities I can't make any further comments at this time other than to say that we dont believe the results of these investigations will have a material impact to UTC.
So with that let's open up the call for questions.
Stephanie? (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Greg can you just elaborate a little bit more on Sikorsky for us.
So the charge in the quarter is basically just late fees as it were because the deliveries didnt happen? Yes let me take you through it.
Really the charge was related to all the costs that we foresee related to what we believe will be later deliveries than contractually required.
As you know we are supposed to deliver all the aircraft this year the final 19.
We didnt delivery any next year.
So our expectation our assumption now is that we will deliver the helicopters over the next three years.
We put a placeholder of eight as you know for each of the next three which we think is a reasonable schedule for both ourselves from a production standpoint and the customers from a deliver standpoint But having said that we recognize that there are cost contractual revenues that we will have to cover as it relates to the Canadian government and then we are going to also have fewer flight hours and we will probably going to have some cost on the program related to that longer time frame.
So really three pieces.
There is some contractual relief cost there is flight hour degradation and there is just some additional program cost and all that added up to the $157 million charge.
So we still absorb whatever it is $4 million a unit as you ship those eight over the next three years.
Correct? Yes it's $14 million a year.
Again we should point out.
We obviously can ship more than just the eight a year.
We can probably deliver most of the helicopters this year.
We just dont think that thats practical.
I think Mick and the team have made some really good progress in the last month since Louis spoke.
We have been discussions with the Canadian government and I think again we will see some good news coming out of Mick in March.
And just on share repurchase.
You said you started here in January.
Obviously the cash has been strong.
You have a little bit more leash with the rating agencies try to at least fully arrest your creep in 2013 or potentially even go further than that? Well I think we will certainly be able to arrest share creep with the share buyback that we have got.
As you know we have got a placeholder of a $1 billion for share buyback this year and $1 billion for M&amp;A.
If I think about the cash we are still going to see about $1.5 billion of cash proceeds coming in from these divestitures that will close here in the first half.
We ended the year with strong cash flow.
Over $5 billion on the balance sheet.
We had strong cash flow for the year.
So I think if you think of the calls on cash we have got $2 billion going to dividends we have got $1 billion for share buyback we have got $1 billion of debt that due in December thats the 18-month flow and we will certainly be in a position to pay that.
We will probably pay down another $1 billion of debt thats due in '15 or '16.
Then we will talk to the rating agencies about taking up the number but I think cash looks very strong certainly what we expected and of course my bosses is pushing me to do a lot more than $1 billion but its January so we will see what happens.
Then just finally and then I will move on.
Can you elaborate a little bit more on the complexion of what you are seeing in Otis China whether it is primary city secondary cities residential versus non and anything to add there about how things are playing out? I think again as we talked in December where we are seeing the growth is in the Western provinces.
Along the coast the residential investments have picked up a little bit but the real strength we are seeing is on the residential side and I will say the third and the fourth tier cities.
This factory in Chongqing that we just opened in September of last year is probably fully utilized.
We shipped about 10 000 units out of there this year.
So thats where the growth is coming.
It is from the west.
It is nothing new.
I think it is the same phenomenon we saw last year.
But we are also seeing I think just an uptick in the overall economy in China.
It wasnt just Otis that was strong.
CCS had a very good fourth quarter from an order rates perspective there.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Just two questions hopefully.
One is you talked about impairment charges in CC&amp;S.
Could you give us a ballpark idea of what you are close to selling or expensing with so we can think about next year's base line in that business.
(Inaudible) I think we had a place holder of about $800 million of divestitures.
I think we got somewhere Jay about $550 of those? A little bit less than that.
Yes.
$500 million of that last year so we still got a little bit to go I think and we took a $65 million impairment charge on a number of some of the legacy F&amp;S businesses and I think as we laid all that out for you back in September in terms of the listing of those businesses.
So no surprises I suspect most of the portfolio transformational probably done in the first half.
Some of them will linger into the back half but I think that they've got pretty good line of sight [all done] this year.
IF we kind of look at what you have here then your 15% margin is almost the low hurdle not to give you too hard of time about that? You wouldn't be giving me a hard time about that if you were to say that because I think again Carrier just based on their guidance is going to hit 15% this year assuming markets comeback as we expect.
So the integration Carrier and F&amp;S has come cross without a hit so I think 15% ought to be very achievable if the markets cooperate.
And then on Sikorsky if we exclude all these I know for accounting you can't exclude the $157 million but for us we can back that out and you end up with something around 16% operating margins in the business unit.
Was there just some catches and maybe some absence of R&amp;D and I know you sort of alluded to a lower decline year-on-year in the business.
Could you talk a little bit about what I call core operating performance? I think core operating actually very good of sequester that 91 aircraft that we're going to look more for.
It's a huge number of aircraft.
I think they delivered 242 or so for the year and 91 of that was in the fourth quarter.
So lot of shipments again profitable and we saw good shipments on the commercial side the S-92 is going out we saw the S-76.
I think we delivered four of those in the quarter so it's really just a very strong quarter end.
If you recall again the operating performance in terms of profit growth was not very strong throughout the year so really all the profit growth came in the fourth quarter.
And I would just add sort of add nice mix good restructuring benefits and also just as a reminder strong backlog as we go into 2013.
So some of its price and some of it is some permanent cost reduction? Right.
Thanks gentlemen.
Our next question comes from the Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Okay.
Good morning guys.
Actually it's [Saffran] for Joe this morning.
Two quick questions.
Good morning.
First of all if there's anything you can say at this point and I know it's difficult about sort of the calendarization of the improvement in the aftermarket for 2013.
Yes.
I wish my crystal ball was clear on how do that calendarization is going to work.
Obviously we talked about kind of mid-single digit growth at Pratt &amp; Whitney and it's about 10% of the Aerospace Systems' business.
Obviously the order rates in the fourth quarter were still not positive but they were a lot better.
So again this is probably more back half than front half but where we are seeing airline profitability continuing to improve the trend line was good.
As I said book-to-bill was over 1% but I am not sure if this is going to be a second quarter or third quarter but just given the cycles of the airlines are flying today we know that there is going to be a recovery here some time whether it's second third fourth I can't tell you.
Thanks.
And just as a follow-up is there anything else you can say now about the agreement you came to with Boeing on pursuing on the helicopter work? The team here is really it's a win-win for UTC and Boeing.
It teams us with Boeing.
This is on the joint multi-role helicopter program.
We'll be submitting the joint bid with Boeing here in March.
This is for up to 4 000 helicopters.
Again this has developed a prototype.
We won't actually deliver production helicopters for 10 15 years but this is a great team and it puts again Sikorsky is going to lead on the aircraft Boeing will lead on the emission system equipment really capitalize on the strength of the both companies.
And recall this is not a new thing.
We teamed with Boeing back 15 years ago when Comanche program was launched and we have a very good working relationship with between the two organizations.
Great.
Okay.
Well thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning Greg and Jay.
Good morning Carter.
Just a couple of questions.
First on the Pratt spares.
It looks like your compare there would have eased a lot but obviously there was still a lot of pressure there on the revenue side.
I wondered if you might speak to from a platform level where that pressure is coming from and if you are seeing it in one area more than another maybe it is PW4000s versus what you are seeing in the Vs.
But any color you can provide there on that continued weakness would be helpful.
I think it is the same trend we have been talking about for the last four or five months.
We continue to see weakness of the wide-body which is the PW4000 and we continue to see strength in the narrow-body which is the Vs and with the PW2000s and 757.
We thought that 75s were going to start to see some acceleration of retirements.
We havent really sent that.
In fact they are flying more now.
So spares actually look pretty good on 75s and on the Vs and all of the weakness we are seeing all the year-over-year decline is really in the 4000 family.
So again we know those wide-bodies are flying.
Those are relatively new aircraft but we will see spares come back.
Okay and that 4000 weakness would you attribute that to cargo? Can you see that in the trends? A decent size of the 94-inch fleet is is cargo Carter but it difficult to tell exactly where it is coming from.
We are surprised as we also looked at this.
The cycles at a cargo aircraft are not much different than the cycles on the commercial side.
So although we talked about cargo versus commercial and we from a spare parts perspective it doesnt make a heck of a lot of difference at the end of the day.
Okay and on China in your comments there about Otis I wondered if you might comment about the sort of implied change in market share that you are looking at there relative to 2012.
I mean assuming you lost a couple of points to share and is that the plan to regain that all of it part of it some of it.
Any comment you can make there? I can make a lot of comments.
I guess I would say just a couple of things.
Obviously we did lose share earlier in the year.
I think we gained a lot of momentum in the third and then even more so in the fourth quarter.
(inaudible) that I just talked about we are gaining all of our lost share by the end of '13.
I think we are well on track to do that.
The market is very dynamic.
We are breaking it down between social housing and residential and then you have got the factories and the office but in all of those markets we have got a pretty good share.
Again the momentum coming out of the fourth quarter ought to continue into 2013.
Does the plan imply the Pedro hit cycle? Absolutely.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
First one I may have missed it but did you comment on how Pratt spares organically were sequentially Jay? We did not.
They were spares sequentially.
I would say Hamilton was up.
They were down 21% third to fourth.
They were up.
Are you talking about the rate of decline? Absolute.
Yes absolute they were up.
But you would always expect them to be up because of the price type of ordering activity that happens in the quarter.
Okay and then Greg on the contingency on taxes it sounds like $0.04 that has been added to the contingency Euro maybe $0.03 or $0.04 pension.
Can you size that? Yes it is another probably $0.05 or so.
Okay is that roughly the puts that you have and then you mentioned spares as being an unknown or aftermarket as being unknown.
Is there anything else that is emerging that is being a more of a put to that $0.15 or $0.16 additional contingency? No in fact I think surprisingly it has been a pretty good start to the year.
We feel a little bit better today than we did back in December because we have got this additional goal of $0.15 or $0.16 or plus we are taking up restructuring by about $100 million.
So we feel good about the guidance range and again if the business unit hit their high end of their guidance range we will certainly see ourselves towards the top-end of that range as opposed to the mid-point but at the mid-point we did not have much contingency and now we have got calling extra $0.15 $0.16 of contingency sitting there today.
So we feel pretty good.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Can you talk a little about aerospace systems? If I just look at the 2013's guidance of $13.5 billion $14 billion in revenues and the $2.1 billion in operating profit just looking at where you were in the fourth quarter which would have had a full quarter of Goodrich I mean certain it seems like you need to step up the run rate on a quarterly basis.
And outside of the 87 I mean what else is really going to help move that quarterly run rate up so much over the course of the year to hit those numbers? You got really two things that are going to benefit Aerospace Systems as we move throughout the year.
One of course will be additional synergies and we have recognized about $60 million of synergies last year.
This year we probably had another 100 plus million in synergies maybe $120 million of synergies so that will help the run rate and you've got a recovery in spares.
The thing about what's holding margins down in the fourth quarter at Aerospace Systems clearly the decline in spares year-over-year so we if we get to that 10% spares up that we expect plus we see the synergies.
I think you will certainly an improvement in the run rate.
Okay.
Thank you.
Then just CC&amp;S some of the other companies that have reported I guess the December quarter talked about some softening and some of the HVAC end market.
I think it might have been more refrigeration but just in general have you seen any trends in any areas within the HVAC markets that might have been softening over the course of the quarter and into January? Well let me go through it piece-by-piece because obviously there's puts and takes in the CCS portfolio but res as we mentioned ended very strongly 20% order up 10% in sales.
Commercial HVAC globally was up about 7% again strong in North America strong in Asia not so good in Europe.
I think the one kind of governor of the year is going to be Transicold specifically the container business which was still down in the fourth quarter and it's not clear that we are going to see a big recovery although we're certainly hopeful on the container market.
Now looking at the goods [indices] obviously that's still down at a relatively low level and it doesn't bode well for the containers but it's a very cyclical business.
So containers were down and commercial refrigeration in Europe was also down year-over-year.
Again not much going on there in Europe we are of course very strong there.
What is interest guidance in terms of the container assumption for this year? Container is up I believe about 15%.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Cai von Rumohr from Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
On the Canadian Maritime Helicopter where are we in negotiations with the Canadian government.
Are you in talks? Let me be very clear about this guy.
I think we are in discussions with the Canadians.
We have not entered into a renegotiation of the contract yet.
We are in discussions to get to that point where we can restructure the deliveries of the IMH which is the interim configuration of the helicopter.
We started those discussions last year.
I think they are going very well but we are not at the point yet where we're ready to pencil to paper.
Okay.
So I mean obviously you've kind of had a lower number than expected at Sikorsky last year but you bought the decline down a little bit so I mean you feel better than you did in December about those discussions.
I think yes.
Generally we feel better in general about the relationship.
I think we are making progress everyday up there.
Mick and his team have been working very closely with the customer.
It just takes time to work through all this.
Okay.
Then help us understand maybe the tax rate you took it down 50 bips but you said what? There's 100 million plus from the R&amp;D credit in the first quarter for 2012? Yes.
Another $100 million so by $200 million benefit shouldn't that be a little bit more than 50 bips? Yes.
In fact the benefit will be a little bit more in 2013 than we saw in 2012.
Again we've taken the rate down by a half of point probably wanted to come down four-point but this actually gives us an opportunity to make sure we actually hit that rate.
And though we have to do some tax planning to get from the statutory rate down to that target rate of 29.5%.
This takes some pressure off of that and we'll see how the year goes.
There's obviously a little it helps a lot by having that R&amp;D tax credit out there.
Cai the 2012 piece that we booked in the first quarter will reduce the reported rate.
We've [inferred]the 29% we're talking about the operational rate.
And in that $100 million as Greg spoke to basically could be to offset the incremental restructuring against the $300 million.
So you are correct the reported rate will be lower than 29%.
I guess I didn't get that so the reported rate will be lower than 29? Yes.
The operator effective rate will be 29% but because this 2012 extenders it will be booked in the first quarter actually.
No I get that.
Maybe you could also help us show where the rate to be in the first quarter and assuming the 2013 is equally spread where should it be for the last nine months approximately.
In fact what will happen is to Jay's point you are going to get this $100 million benefit on R&amp;D in the first quarter.
So the rate normally is going to be about 31% in the first quarter and it declines throughout the year as we implement tax plans and strategy.
So this $100 million will help in the first quarter.
I dont have an exact number.
We will get back you on that.
In fact when we update you I think sometime here coming up in February when we can give you probably a better look at what that rate is going to be quarter-by-quarter.
Our next question comes from Shannon OCallaghan from Nomura.
Your line is open.
Good morning Greg and Jay.
Just a couple of things on cash flow.
So CapEx jumped up in the fourth quarter.
Can you talk about what the focus there is where they are and should we assume this kind of percentage of sales close to 4% as a run rate? Yes let's talk a little bit about CapEx.
I think we spent $641 million or $642 million on CapEx in the quarter and almost $1.4 billion for the year.
That was up like $500 million year-over-year.
So we saw that spending all over but really it's on the aerospace side.
As Pratt gears up for production of the GTF and as Hamilton Sundstrand Goodrich businesses as they gear up for this big increase in OEM production we are seeing a lot of pressure on CapEx.
At the same time we also had spending on the commercial side of the business I think Otis was up to $142 million.
So thats up about $70 million year-over-year.
So we are making investments around the business.
I think we will continue to see pressure on CapEx that number wants to be higher in 2013 where we obviously have got a little work to do to hold that to a more reasonable level but that $1.4 billion could well go up to $1.5 billion this year.
Okay so a little bit of an increase year-over-year but fourth quarter was a heavy quarter? Yes in fact we didnt actually believe the forecast.
It got rolled up because we have never seen a quarter that big before but the ramp is real.
787 production is going to go from seven to 10.
You got A380 production increase.
Really across the aerospace platforms you are seeing big increases and that just leaves the CapEx.
Okay and then just where did you end the year on the funded status in terms of pension? You put in a $200 million in the international plans in the quarter.
Any plans to contribute in 2013? We ended up about 85% funded.
Again we have had a very good year on the pension side.
The returns were around 14% on the domestic side.
We did put of a $200 million into international plans in the late December.
We will probably put a similar number in this year.
There is no U.S.
contributions this year.
None required this year and probably none for next year.
So again the funded status again we have a good run-up but like we did last year it will correct itself plus and discounted rate helped us a little bit at the end at 3.9 versus the 3.8.
So still long way to go from where its been historically but I think all those factors point to the need for very little funding.
Our next question comes from David Strauss from UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning Jay and Greg.
On Goodrich it came in a little bit better than you guys forecast $0.06 dilution.
It looks like synergies were a little bit better.
It also sounds like in response to Sam's question you are now forecasting a little bit higher synergy number for '13.
Did anything else for the Goodrich forecast in terms of accretion change for '13? Yes we are still looking at $0.60 of accretion year-over-year.
You would get about $1.2 billion of EBIT and you get the synergies and offset that and then you get $90 million or so of amortization.
So none of that has really changed the restructuring.
It is still about $100 million.
Maybe the one nuance in this is that $0.60 of accretion includes a $100 million of restructuring and we will cover that $100 million of restructuring at the top level.
So the real number you are going to see is probably more like $0.68 of accretion year-on-year.
Okay and then CCS.
Given what you are seeing today back at the meeting in December you had talked about the underlying assumptions there being about mid-single digit growth in resi volumes and mid-single digit growth on the commercial side.
Does that still hold today? Yes.
I think so.
But again order rate would seem to support those numbers coming into the year and I dont think there has been any change to those base assumptions.
Our next question comes from Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hello.
Just wanted to try to dig into the commercial aftermarket broadly again.
It looks like we could see airlines de-stocking inventory throughout 2012.
You guys have talked about this dollar cost per shop visit being under pressure.
It sounds like things are getting a little better there but that behavior isn't really changing.
And Greg you mentioned flight hours are growing in a nice clip.
Airline profitability is pretty solid relative to prior cycles.
Can you just sort of elaborate on when you are talking to the customer why are they behaving that way? What's making them do that? It seems like often times to answer that question is just broader macro and broader uncertainty but that was true.
That's been true for four year now and there have been pockets of inventory restock and destock and why are they doing that now and then what is that that will make them stop so that they try and reverse this? Yes.
I think what will make them stop is the shelves barely won't be able to dispatch aircraft so it is a very cyclical business.
You go back to 2009 and we saw spares down 25%.
It came back in '10 and '11 and like last year again there was a lot of uncertainty from a macro standpoint.
What's going in Europe we saw a big reduction in the European airlines order rates U.S.
uncertainty.
Again a slowdown in China all of those macro factors I think impacts the airlines' perception of how much do I need to order how much stock do I need to have.
It will come back.
I mean it is a very cyclical business.
And as I said earlier I am not sure if this is first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter but we know typically these cycles run 12 to 18 months where they have to come in and buy parts.
The good news is as we go to this next generation of aircraft more than 80% of our customers are electing to go on some type of an FMP so it will take the volatility out of this eventually but today that number is less than 40% so we are still seeing revenues today we're just not seeing an incremental piece from all of these flight hours that are out there.
And you don't have the data on what the customer holds to give you a little bit more precision on when they do have the shelves bare and need to start restocking? Well keep in mind there's a couple of different phenomenon.
Here at Pratt we know pretty is going into the which engines are going to come off wing and which for overhaul and how many inductions we should be seeing in our shop and we'll know that within 10%.
What we don't know when we do that forecast is what level of overhaul the customer is going to ask for order is it light or heavy.
So the scope again that's just short of the interval between overhaul cycles.
Now the Hamilton and Goodrich size is little different.
Those are primarily on condition repairs where something breaks they have to fix it but there is no time based overhaul so thats another business.
I think that's why the Hamilton business is down nearly as much as the Pratt business because again as things break on plant they have to fix them but they still have some ability to work out or to use up the spears that they have in stock.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And just one other question on the separate topic Otis margins can you just elaborate on whether or not the margin in the quarter or how the margin in the quarter compared to what you thought it would be.
And I know you have 2013 guidance that shows a little bit of improvement there.
Is there any change to the longer term a few years down the road thought on what the right margin is in that segment particularly as you start to take that market share back? Obviously there is no surprises in terms of the fourth quarter.
We knew margins will come down about 110 basis points I guess which is just where I think Pedro had calibrated us for the fourth quarter.
And this year margins will go up a little bit again what we expect to see a recovery in equipment sales and we expect to see stabilization in Europe.
I think the margins are 23% we probably aren't going to see those again anytime soon.
And that was really because new equipment sales were down so much in the aftermath of this great recession so as new equipment comes back to kind of more normal 55% and 60% of revenue.
If it goes back to 55%.
We should see again probably those margins maybe 20% to 21% range long-term.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Julian Mitchell from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Thanks a lot.
Yes.
So my first question is just on the overall UTC-wide organic sales growth.
It's flat in Q4 flat in 2012.
The midpoint is up 4% for 2013.
We are looking at the four main order numbers that you always call out half were down half are up.
So without getting to sort of bulk down a little if we are getting commercial aftermarket forecasting when do you think the overall UTC-wide entity will start to see decent organic sales growth? Will we have to wait till Q2 or Q3 or you think Q1 will start to see some growth again? I would expect you will see modest growth in the first quarter and then it should accelerate as the year progresses.
Again if you think about the CCS business it's obviously seasonal as well.
So second and third quarters are typically stronger than first quarter but what you will see is a gradual resumption in organic revenue growth.
Last year was clearly an anomaly for UTX.
It's been a dozen years since we have seen sales growth at that level.
So we are well positioned in the emerging markets.
I think China is going to come back strong this year after a weak last year.
We have seen that in the order rates at both CCS and Otis.
Again commercial OEM will be strong.
We know that the backlog is very strong there.
Sikorsky again down a little bit on the Black Hawks but commercial business is doing well.
So spares is probably the big question mark in terms of whether that's a first second or third quarter recovery but I would expect just a gradual recovery in organic growth but we should see some in the first quarter.
Got it thanks.
Then just to circle back quickly on Otis.
You mentioned earlier in the call that Europe in some areas was stabilizing.
It doesn't sound like that had happened in HVAC or in Aerospace.
So does that mean you have already seen some stabilization in Otis Europe? Again you have to look at it almost country-by-country as we go across Europe.
Obviously Spain was down big Italy was down big France was relatively flat.
Then we saw decent growth in Russia and the emerging Europe.
So again parts of Europe are okay.
Other parts are I would say still in the doldrums.
But again Spain has stabilized.
It's not getting worse.
Italy has stabilized not getting worse.
So it's at low level and we should see a gradual recovery.
We are not expecting much this year.
Remember we are talking two or three points of growth out of Europe after a down two years.
Got it and pricing in Otis.
Obviously you had some changes in strategy in China in the spring of last year.
So now Otis sort of region by region the pricing strategy is unchanged? Again there is a pricing pressure across the globe in the Otis business.
We see it especially in China and we also see it in Europe.
We are actually seeing pricing get a little bit better here in North America but it's a fight every day.
Our next question comes from Doug Harned from Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
I was interested if you could give a little insight into the CC&amp;S margins.
Good margins but if you were to separate what's caused the improvement in terms of say mix commodity cost and the benefits of the integration exit from lower performing businesses and you did give us a special dividend.
How would you give those puts and takes? Let me just talk about the growth because the growth in the quarter was essentially as we said the restructuring benefits you had some improvement in commodities and then you had the dividends.
As far as the operating margin you do get some and we have talked in the past about a third of the benefit comes from the portfolio transformation.
But again a lot of that is the heavy lifting that they have done related to the consolidation and the restructuring that they have done and continue to do over the past number of years.
So that's mainly the big drivers of their operating margin expansion.
And how much was it in reduced commodity cost? Commodities wasn't much Doug but I can get back to you on that.
It wasn't the biggest driver.
If you think about it restructuring is probably the biggest followed by special dividend out there and then we would get down to commodity pricing.
Okay thats helpful and then on Otis now that orders you have seen some pickup in orders in terms of lead time today what do you see in terms of when that would turn into sales? Yes.
Market-by-market it will vary.
Typically in China we are seeing about a six to nine month lead time from order to delivery.
The U.S.
especially some of the big megaprojects or even in the U.K.
like this cross-rail project we won't be delivering those for a couple of years.
So again the U.S.
orders are all 18 to 24 months as opposed to Asia which is typically a much shorter cycle.
And then have you seen any changes in the competitive behavior here with regard to pricing? Yes.
I think again as I mentioned before pricing is difficult in all of the markets.
I don't think that we are seeing any changes per se but it is a very difficult pricing environment in all of these markets.
Again as orders pickup obviously some of that pressure abates but it is still a very very competitive market out there.
Okay very good.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Peter Arment from Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Agee</strong> Yes.
Thank you.
Good morning Greg and Jay.
Just more of a clarification on the restructuring Greg the additional $100 million that you picked up here where exactly is that going to fall? Is it in the Goodrich comments that you've mentioned earlier about covering the restructuring costs there or is it placed in CC&amp;S? I think in fact what you'll see is that $100 million of restructuring that we had at UTAS or at the Aerospace Systems that is unchanged from December.
What we've seen is really both at Otis and at Pratt &amp; Whitney is a desire for more restructuring dollars.
They've got projects that they're working on both domestically and internationally where there are looking for some restructuring dollars.
Again we see really good payback.
This is one to two year payback kind of projects and the list is longer than my funding ability right now so again I think you'll see it just like you did last year across each of the businesses.
Agee</strong> Okay.
Then just for clarification going back to your EPS kind of walk that you laid out in December.
It sounds like we are going to have a little bit less the headwind here for Sikorsky given the charge and pension came in a little better in a slightly lower tax rate is the midpoint still is intact because of the additional restructuring? Is that a fair way to look at it? No.
I think the midpoint is intact and we've got a little more contingency.
The $100 million of additional restructuring is actually covered by the tax extenders from 2012.
Because we got them in January they come through in the first quarter of this year so I'm going to take that $100 million of kind of good news and we are just going to use it to fund additional restructuring.
The other good news like the tax rate from the 2013 extenders plus the good news on pension FX and all that that just really gives us more contingency at the midpoint and we are not going to take the guidance up because of that good news today but certainly we feel better about where we are than we did even a month ago.
Agee</strong> Okay.
Understood.
Thank you.
All right.
Thank you everyone.
I appreciate you guys listening in on the call.
We'll see everybody in March at our Annual Investor Meeting [your presence] and look forward to talking to all of you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies First Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jay Malave Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download from the UTCs website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and one-time items as they usually do.
Then company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTCs SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to two questions per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
You may also ask further questions by reinserting yourself in the queue and we will answer as time permits.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Okay thank you [Shamie] and good morning everyone.
As you saw in the press release this morning UTC reported first quarter earnings per share of $1.39 thats up 6% versus 2012 and a little higher than we expected due to a little better than expected execution at Aerospace Systems and our Climate Controls and Security business as well at the time with some one-time gains.
If you recall back in March we were talking about a $1.30 number that were comfortable with.
In fact on that $1.30 we had about $0.05 of gains in excess of restructuring.
We ended up with $0.11.
So about $0.06 of the $1.39 was a little bit more than we expected at the timing of some gains out of the portfolio that integrate the portfolio at CCS.
As far as rest of the business our integration remains on track and we continue to see strong performance in our two major acquisitions with Goodrich and IAE providing $0.21 of earnings in the quarter.
Organic sales declined 2% partially due to tough compares in commercial aerospace aftermarket and the Transicold business.
But we continue to see signs of economic recovery especially in North America and emerging markets.
Europe however continues to be a headwind and the legacy PW4000 commercial spares at Pratt &amp; Whitney have yet to recover.
So the past could be a bit even but were confident in our full year outlook.
On slide two on a positive note order trends that you see on slide two indicate that the majority of our portfolio is well positioned for a resumption of top-line growth as we progress through the remainder of the year.
Just a reminder well talk to orders on a constant currency basis as we usually do.
In our commercial businesses we see good traction in North America.
The housing and commercial construction markets are improving Americans are investing in their homes again and our North American Residential HVAC orders were up 11% versus last year.
The ABI or the architecture of billing indices has now trended above 50 for the past seven months and we see that coming through in our orders and Otis new equipment orders up 21% in North America.
We did see a 12% decline on our North American Commercial HVAC orders this is on a tough compare and we continue to expect that business to grow 2% to 4% for the year.
As I mentioned Europe remains a challenge although we do see some bright spots.
CCSs commercial refrigeration business their orders grew 11% in Europe and Otis new equipment orders grew 21% with Russia France and the UK more than offsetting weakness in Southern Europe.
However CCSs commercial HVAC and Fire &amp; Security products orders were down 14% and 5% respectively so were not quite out of the woods in Europe yet.
Otis continues to gain momentum in China holding on the strength we saw on the fourth quarter orders were up 27% in Q1 CCS commercial HVAC orders were down slightly while the fire and security product orders grew 8% in China.
Our position in emerging markets continues to pay off with combined BRIC orders for the commercial businesses up 22% in the quarter.
Turning to aerospace we saw a modest improvement in our commercial aftermarket business at Aerospace Systems' spares orders were up 2% on a pro forma basis would strength primarily from the legacy Goodrich business however we yet to see a recovery of Pratt &amp; Whitney legacy commercial spare orders were down 28% continued declines in wide-body PW4000 orders were partially offset by strong growth in the V2500.
The rate of decline also reflects a tough compare to last year and a strong book-to-bill in the fourth quarter with increasing airline traffic record load factors declining oil prices and airlines projected to earn more than $10 billion this year we still expect an increase in order rates as we move through the year.
On the military side although we didnt see a significant impact for the sequestration we do see the impact of DOD budget cuts and reduction in flying hours with aggregate pro forma aftermarket sales down 10% in the quarter across the Aero businesses.
So we will keep a close eye on the aerospace aftermarket and look for signs of more stabilization in Europe but order rates and macroeconomic trends broadly support our assumption for growth as we move through the year.
We remain confident on our full year guidance of earnings per year of $5.85 to $6.15 and sales of $64 billion to $65 billion thats up 3% to 5% organically.
Okay now onto slide three taking a closer look at first quarter results total sales and segment operating profit increased 16% and 15% respectively driven by the Goodrich and IAE acquisitions.
Climate Controls and Securities continues to realize savings from the integration as they increase profit 8% out of 3% decline in organic sales.
And Otis continues to gain momentum with organic sales growth for the second consecutive quarter.
EPS of $1.39 as I said before included a $0.11 of gains in excess of restructuring.
About $0.15 of combined gains came from the tax adjustments related to the 2012 Tax Extenders which were passed by Congress in January of 2013 and the ongoing portfolio transformation at CCS.
These gains were partially offsets by $0.04 of restructuring.
Excluding these items as well as $0.21 of net gains from last years first quarter an earnings per share increased 16% again driven by the IAE and Goodrich acquisitions.
Free cash flow in the quarter was 88% of net income.
CapEx was $295 million thats up nearly 60% versus last year as we prepare for the ramp in commercial aerospace.
We also restarted our share repurchase program in January acquiring $335 million of our stock and we expect to buyback at similar amount here in the second quarter.
Let me stop there for now and Ill talk more about the full-year in just a second but first let me turn it over to Jay to take you through the segment results.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to page four Otis sales improved 2% in the quarter led by solid mid-single digit growth in new equipment and continued growth in service sales.
Excluding the impact of currency new equipment sales were up in the Americas Europe and Asia with North America Russia and China leading the way.
Operating profit was essentially flat at constant currency.
Continued weakness in Southern Europe offset the benefits of volume growth and continued cost reduction in the rest of the world.
New equipment order growth was strong up 24% in the quarter with double-digit growth in the Americas Europe and Asia led by 27% improvement in China.
Order strength in Russia more than offset weakness in Southern Europe.
Thanks to the growing order book and near-term completion of factory transformations around the world.
Otis expects to see improving performance as the year progresses.
Guidance for the full year remains unchanged with profit expected to be up $150 million on mid single-digit sales growth.
On slide 5 climate controls &amp; security increase profits 8% in the quarter and 7% lower sales resulting in another sharp increase in margins up 170 basis points from prior year to 13.1%.
Organic sales were down 3% driven by a steep decline in container shipments.
On a difficult prior year compare complaint with weak European markets partially offset by high single-digit growth in the Americas residential HVAC business.
China was up low single digits while Asia overall was flattish.
CCS had another solid quarter of earnings growth despite with the decline in order organic sales.
Profit growth was driven by restructuring and productivity including continued savings from the consolidation of Carrier and Fire &amp; Security lower commodity cost and the absence of ongoing losses from a business we divested in the first quarter last year.
Global commercial HVAC orders were down 8% following 9% growth last year with double-digit declines in North America and Europe partially offset by low single-digit growth in Asia.
Orders for global Fire &amp; Security products were down low single-digit and fuel [premises] were down about 10%.
Transicold orders were up 30% and Commercial refrigeration orders in Europe were up a 11% with solid results in the first quarter and anticipated organic improvement we continue to expect a profit growth of $150 million to $200 million on mid single-digit organic sales growth at CCS.
Turning to aerospace on slide six.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney sales were up 11% in the first quarter driven by the consolidation of IAE and the transfer of the AeroPower business.
Organic sales were down 2% year-over-year as declines in commercial aftermarket and military businesses were partially offset by higher commercial engine OEM and Power Systems sales.
Large commercial spare sales were down 19% organically over last years first quarter which was the strongest of 2012.
On a reported basis large commercial spares were up 23% including consolidated IAE sales.
Operating profit in the quarter was down 3%.
The impact from lower organic volume and unfavorable mix along with higher pension costs was partially offset by the benefits from the IAE consolidation which more than offset the absence of last years contract closeout benefit.
For the full year we continue to expect Pratt &amp; Whitneys operating profit to be up $100 million to $150 million a mid to high single digit sales growth.
UTC Aerospace Systems delivered a solid quarter with operating profit of $509 million and sales of $3.3 billion.
As Greg mentioned Goodrich has gotten off to a better than expected start and contributed $0.18 earnings per share in the quarter.
On a pro forma year-over-year basis for UTC Aerospace Systems sales were up low single-digit with commercial OEM up high single-digit partially offset by weakness in military aftermarket.
Commercial aftermarket sales were up low single-digit.
Orders for commercial spares grew 2% on a pro forma year-over-year basis and commercial spares book-to-bill exceeded 1 for the second straight quarter.
Compared with the fourth quarter which was a first full quarter with Goodrich Aerospace Systems' sales were up 3% and operating profit was up 50%.
Operating profit growth was driven by about $90 million purchase accounting related adjustments conversion on higher OEM and commercial aftermarket sales volumes as well as lower E&amp;D.
With a solid start to the year we remain confident in full-year guidance with the sales of $13.5 billion $14 billion and operating profit of $2.1 billion.
Turning to Sikorsky on slide 8 sales declined 7% driven by lower military aircraft and aftermarket volumes partially offset by higher commercial aircraft deliveries.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 40 aircraft including 30 military and 10 commercial.
Operating profit declined 32% as a result of the lower overall sales volumes.
Headwind from the Multi-Year 8 margin reset and higher pension cost.
During the quarter Sikorsky and Boeing signed a strategic teaming agreement support the U.S.
Armys Joint Multi-Role Future Vertical Lift requirements the joint effort includes proposal to build a demonstrative aircraft based on Sikorskys X2 technology.
For the full-year we continued to expect profit to be down $100 million to $150 million on low single-digit sales growth.
With that let me turn it over to Greg for wrap up.
Okay thanks Jay.
We are on slide 9 now its a good execution at the business units as we look to further end market recovery as the year progresses the businesses as we said are focused on integration and execution as we wrap up the final pieces of the portfolio transformation.
In the first quarter we closed on the sale of the two regulatory mandated divestitures from Goodrich along with our fuel cells business.
We expect the last two large divestitures thats Pratt &amp; Whitney Power System and Rocketdyne businesses to close by the middle of the year and CCS should have their portfolio transformation essentially complete by the end of this year.
We also had several notable accomplishments in the first quarter that will drive organic growth well into the future.
On our first GTF engine the Bombardier CSeries we achieved flight certification while the first A320neo engine completed ground testing and will begin flight testing here in the second quarter.
We also had significant wins across the Propulsion and Aerospace Systems group in this quarter most notably at Embraer.
With the selection of the GTF to power Embraers second generation E-Jet Pratt &amp; Whitney is well-positioned on the next generation regional jets a key growth market over the next 20 years.
We also want a new position for wheels and brakes at Embraer.
The combine wins across the Embraer regional jet show the value we bring to our customers and are early examples of the benefit of the Goodrich acquisition.
As Jay mentioned Sikorsky and Boeing announced the partnership to submit a joint proposal for the Armys Joint Multi-Role Technology Demonstrator and thats going to be based on Sikorskys X2 technology Sikorsky also took orders for 15 commercial helicopters in the quarter.
On the CMH program we continue to have discussions with our customers but there is really nothing new to report at this time.
We remain committed to the program and are already to begin pilot training and were going to maintain our place holder eight aircraft deliveries for 2013.
In the commercial businesses we continue to win orders in key emerging markets.
Otiss 27% order growth in China including order for a 151 elevators in a high-end luxury residential complex near Shanghai and CCS was awarded a contract to provide two datacenters in China with HVAC fire suppression and chiller control systems.
So just as you heard from the presence in March each of our businesses is well-positioned on our core markets and continued innovation will allow us to drive long-term organic growth.
Okay taking a look at the rest of 2013 no real changes from what we told you last month.
We remain confident in our guidance range of $5.85 to $6.15 despite the potential $0.10 impact for the sequestration.
The order rates in our commercial businesses are good leading indicators for resumption of organic growth and we will keep a close eye on commercial spares as well as the European market.
Well also see some easier comparison over the course of the year.
If you recall that the last year Pratt &amp; Whitneys organic spare sales were down only 4% in the first quarter versus 19% decline over the rest of the year.
And Transicold entered 2012 with a very strong backlog in the container business which they burn down in last years first quarter and this was followed by double-digit sales declines in each of the next three quarters.
So you should see CCS revert to organic growth here in Q2.
A and were going to continue to invest in restructuring with visibility some additional gains and good payback restructuring factors across the business.
We now expect to spend about $350 million on restructuring this year all of which will be offset by one-time gains.
We spent $52 million on restructuring in the first quarter and we would expect that to be level loaded with about a $100 million of restructuring in each of the next three quarters.
Remaining gains however should come largely in the second quarter so on top of the $185 million of gains you saw on Q1 well see about a $150 million to $160 million of gains here in the second quarter.
Also strong cash flow remains a hallmark of UTC and we continue to expect free cash flow will equal or exceeds net income for the year.
In the first quarter we paid down almost $400 million of debt and we bought back $335 million of shares on maintaining the cash balance of $4.8 billion.
We will continue to delever and we now expect to paid down about $2 billion of debt this year $1 billion that we will target for here in the second quarter and the other $1 billion which is due in the fourth quarter.
Were also going to maintain for the time being our placed order of $1 billion each for share repurchase and M&amp;A so With that let me stop.
Well open up the call for questions.
Shamie? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Ron Epstein of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Hey good morning guys.
Hey Ron how are doing? Good morning Ron.
Good quick question on the PW4000.
I would say they were down I guess organically a bunch in the quarter.
Why would they come back? I mean are the (inaudible)? What do you expect to see to have that actually come back? What we know youre going to ask that question Ron.
Yeah look its a complicated story let me try and take you through some of the pieces as we see it today.
Right now theres about 2500 PW4000 engines in services.
And over the last five years thats come down in total about 3%.
And we expect that thats going to continue to come down 1% or 2% a year for the next five years.
So youre actually going to see some attrition in the portfolio but at the same time the average age of these engines is only 14 years.
We fully expect these things to have a normal lifecycle of 25 years to 30 years so at some point they will come back.
There is some excess material out there in the of engines obviously from some of the retirements but just not significant enough so they will come back for LLCs we will start to see a more normal run rate here as we go throughout the year so pretty confident the other thing just to put it in perspective so there is 2 500 4000s out there.
Today there are 5 000 V2500s out there.
We are going to sell another 3 000 engines over the next five years or so.
So the Vs are really going to be the story going forward and we saw that in the quarter if you dissect that 28% down what you see is that the 4000s were down about just under 40% maybe they were down about 39% but the Vs on the other hand were up about 34% on the legacy piece.
So again I think weve made this bet on narrow-body its going to pay-off and again I think its all manageable in terms of what we are seeing on the 4000s in over the course of the year.
Okay.
Okay and then maybe if I can just a follow-on that same question.
So are you seeing I mean relatively young or engines would not [have] many hours on them relatively speaking coming off airplanes that are getting retired computing with your own spares maybe about kind of part of the issue?  Not really.
In fact what we are seeing again these engines have been out there I think there is some engines that are 25 years old and the PW4 is in fact more than that probably from the almost 30 years old from the early 4000 so sort of the older engines are coming off which is providing service to the material we also see the airlines continuing to try and take spare engines and use them and not induct them into the overhaul shaft so inductions actually on the 4000 are lighter than what we had expected just because the airlines are trying to do what they can to conserve cash so oil prices at $90 a barrel I think the airline traffic is still very high capacity very high you really think that we are going to see kind of return to normal on the 4000s its just not enough engines out there in the fleet that have been retired to provide enough spares to support the fleet thats out there.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Ron thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Hi Sam.
The first thing is can you just quantify the partnership settlement and contract closeouts in Pratt and how much that helped? Yeah.
So last year there was a I guess some contract closeouts that gave us a benefit of about $0.02.
This year weve got contract closeouts and a couple of other things which benefit us between $0.04 and $0.05 lets say so kind of a net $0.03 year-over-year benefit at Pratt.
Okay.
And then just talk about lower E&amp;D of Pratt and also UTC Aerospace Systems.
E&amp;D is coming down.
And so Im just trying to just understand how come R&amp;D is up year-over-year from $5.44 to $6.10? Where is that additional spending going? Well and thats the just function of Goodrich I mean sorry Sam thats just the function of the Goodrich acquisition year-over-year just consolidating the results versus last year they werent in the results in the first quarter.
And that was about a $100 million of that.
So Pratt at least come down I think $34 million of is well on track it come down to $75 million to $100 million.
The CSeries as we said thats certified in neo is going to flight test here shortly.
So you will see a real ramp down in the E&amp;D and Pratt as we move through the year.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Sam.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi Joe.
The first question is just back on the Pratt spares.
I heard everything you said.
Could you quantify I mean your confidences are going to come back.
Are you able to quantify what would you believe is the new normal level for this and where are we relative to that? So how much under the long run level of PW4000 do you think were running? Well obviously we are down 40% this year in the first quarter to 39% and that will get better.
Again we had a very tough compare last year and some strong sales of the 4000 and some LLCs that the drop of last years first quarter.
I think that rate that we saw its down 15% last year we think that kind of the normalized rate that we saw in the third and the fourth quarter of last years the same rate that we saw this year in the first quarter and that rate should pick up again we still have the airlines out differ in maintenance and just not to the indications over the shaft so at some point these are going to come back.
And do you think youre still on track for overall 5% organic growth in Pratt spares? Yeah but I think the mix is going to be different I think the 2000s have held up pretty well we saw good orders there the Vs have been better than what we expected on the legacy side and the 4000s are little weaker but I still think with the price increase and everything else that we see out there we can still get to that 5% we might be a little late to that if the 4000s dont come back at all but if you see strength in the rest of the portfolio there.
Okay and then just one more Greg overall organic growth youre still saying 3% to 5% you are minus 2% in Q1.
What do you think the profile will like over the rest of the year and did you expect Q1 to be minus 2% or are you thinking more like flat before? No I think when we were as we were looking at the year back in December I think we saw kind of a flattish first quarter came in a little bit late there again I think CCS we knew that the issues that were going to see there because of the big compare issue on container we knew Sikorsky was going to be down and we didnt expect spares of Pratt to be down as much as they were in the quarter.
So thats a little bit of it but again I think its generally you are going to see a gradual recovery well see organic growth in the second quarter and it will pickup through the course of the year end again and what I am looking at is order intake especially at the commercial businesses as we saw very strong growth in China but we also saw a growth in Europe that obviously up 21% and North America is pretty good.
So again there is momentum with a backlog its growing and we should see that play out in the higher sales as we move through the year.
Yeah Joseph when we did see sequential growth in the backlog at both CCS and Otis new equipment so that gives us some confidence as we go throughout the year besides just the compare is getting easier.
Thanks.
Okay Joe.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Thank you very much.
Good morning Howard.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
For a moment just to follow a little bit more on Joes question with the diversified business the way you have you always have some puts and takes.
Where else did you see some things outside of the 4 000 that surprised you on the downside and where were maybe some strength that you hadnt planned for? Yeah I think there is a one thing I would say; its hard to say it surprises us.
We knew Europe was going to be weak.
The order rates at CCS on the commercial leaseback side were probably a little weaker and we didnt see any real traction of a service side of the business from the F&amp;S business in Europe either but I would say thats a real surprise maybe we have hoped I think as [Geraud] had talked about kind of 1% to 3% growth in Europe this year has markets.
Again I think we did see good growth in truck trailer in Europe and well saw a good growth in truck trailer in North America.
But so there are pockets of goodness in Europe its not as dire as people might think.
I mean weve get good balance across the portfolio.
So even if service of CCS has down I think with truck trailer up.
If there is nothing really out there then I would say its a big big concern as we move through the year.
And then youve outlined to some degree what you think the gains and also where the restructuring is going to be? Could you provide a little more color on that or a little granularity?  Sure of the restructuring actions? Yes please.
So again we have identified about  but we probably identified more than $350 million of potential actions.
And were going to see that as you would expect both at CSS at Otis were going to see some more at Pratt.
In the Aerospace Systems group we have the Goodrich integration is going well but there is a about a $100 million of restructuring well do there even Sikorsky is as they see volumes down on military youll see some restructuring.
For the most part the programs that were looking at today are paybacks between one and two year.
So as they do that as they take out their restructuring to $350 million that actually gives us a little bit of cushion this year as well as a runway next year.
So again I think there will be the typical actions were looking to move to low cost sourcing were looking to make sure that we will right size the business.
And we know cuts are coming on the military side weve seen that already in the after market.
So were going to right size the business for what we see as the market demand especially on the military aerospace side.
And then your gains you said can you just qualify them? The gains I think we had a $185 million in the first quarter a biggest piece I think.
Its funny to call it a gain but that was from the Tax Extenders package that was the R&amp;D tax credit for 2012 that got passed in 2013.
But Im sure theres great policy to them instead of us to spend in 2012 and 2013 thats another story.
The other piece of that was portfolio transformation.
We sold the Hong Kong guarding business at CCS.
Those are the two gains.
And in the second quarter we see gains on the divestitures that weve got out there as well as a little bit of additional good news on taxes.
Thank you Greg.
Thanks Howard.
(Inaudible).
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi Carter.
Just a couple quick ones one I wondered if you might expand a bit on Europe and maybe quantify how much Europe was down on the quarter in the commercial businesses and just what you saw in terms of the progression of orders over the quarter you know March relative to February relative to January this seems to be a pretty significant slowdown there.
So I wondered if you might be able to provide some color on that.
Sales Ill start with sales Carter and Ill get into orders sales at Otis were up low single digit sales at CCS were down high single digit.
It was pretty much across the board we had the clients at commercial HVAC we had the high single digits clients at commercial refrigeration I think in around mid single digit.
But again none of this was a surprise we have build this and were weve had Europe as pretty much the headwind go for the rest of the year and I think said it already in the guidance.
Yeah and we also said there was no big trend change during the quarter were all of a sudden things just went to hell in a handbasket and we think it was simply kind of a continuation of what we saw throughout all of last year.
Southern Europe reaming weaker than Northern Europe and emerging Europe especially Russia being a lot better in probably the biggest growth opportunity but we saw growth in the U.K.
We saw growth in Germany it was not just across the board bad news.
Thats great color thanks and just a quick follow up on the Goodrich increase you call about $0.18 in the quarter obviously that tracks to a bigger accretion number than you were outlining for the year at $0.60 you also called out a $90 million in purchase accounting adjustments did that impact Q1 in particular way that may that larger or how should we be thinking about Goodrich accretion over the course of the year relative to what your figures guide towards?  Yeah.
I think yeah Goodrich did do a little bit better than what we had expected and thats surprising trying to under promising over deliver here on the biggest acquisition weve ever done but Goodrich is been nothing but good news for us.
And again I contribute that really to the Aerospace Systems team down theyve been doing a great job integrating the business and got great people.
And again taking care of the problems as they find them and that having any big surprise and so again a little bit better in first quarter and I would hope that trend would continue to again just thinking about this balance works team here again a little bit of upside on Aerospace Systems this year could offset a little bit weakness on the commercial spares so on the latest business the Propulsion and Aerospace Systems did pretty good about the guidance weve got.
Thats great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research.
Your line is now open.
Thank you good morning gents just Good morning brother.
Couple of other follow ups.
Just back to Otis the strength in both Europe and China I guess in both cases do you think there is some share gain going on there or the markets really that strong and I guess in China.
If could provide some color on whats going on in the pricing environment? Yeah so in China I think the market is very very strong I dont want to think that there is been were actually big gain in share because as we saw Conair reported this morning theyve also had very good results in China.
And the market in China is very strong I think property transactions in the first quarter were up 60% in China.
So again the markets are lot better than what we had anticipated.
We saw that starting in the fourth quarter.
Were also getting traction I think in China with the new products weve got the new low cost Gen2 for social housing.
Weve tailored the products to that market.
So again were getting good traction but I wouldnt say were gaining share necessarily but it certainly feels pretty good when you have orders up 27%.
As for Europe again it was a mixed bag against strength in the UK strength in Russia I think were obviously were probably gaining share there also strengthen in the Middle East but Southern Europe continues to be kind of a drag and thats really more about the service side than it is new equipment.
There really isnt much of a new equipment market in Southern Europe today.
And I just didnt totally understand what Jay said when he was talking about container orders.
I wasnt sure if he said offer up.
Were container orders up in the first quarter? Container orders were up over 40% in the first quarter.
Yeah so you remember last year in the first quarter we came in with this big backlog of containers and so sales at CCS were very strong in the first quarter but the order rates started to decline and then we didnt really see any orders in container until mostly in about September and then it started to pick up and the trend that we saw in the fourth quarter is just accelerated here in the first quarter.
So and containers are short cycle business but the leasing companies are buying and that looks like theyre going to have a pretty good year I think Jay already talked about 15% for that market for the year.
And just one last one and then I will pass.
That if you can speak to resi HVAC price costs and whats going on there? Are you feeling cost of lease given whats going on with raw math so you are getting kind of an associated drag down on selling prices as the raw math come down? No in fact I think we feel pretty good about cost price.
There was a price increase as obviously drift back in effective January 1 so far so good there.
Some of the commodity benefits that we see again its short cycle its been up and its down its been as high as about 390 last year we are pretty well locked in on copper for the year little bit of above what the current price is.
But again copper is a commodity that continues to come down an importance of CCS as we move to especially on the commercial side some more of the aluminium plate and heat exchangers.
So again I think generally we feel pretty good.
Its never an easy pricing environment but I would tell you that CCS is making some good strides to get a great distribution here in the U.S.
and good product innovation and thats helping a lot.
Perfect thanks a lot.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Cai von Rumohr of Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Thanks so much.
So your release refers to defense impact at Sikorsky in the first quarter.
Could you kind of explain that and maybe give us some color on what youre seeing in terms of sequester impact on the total business?  Let me have Jay take you through Sikorsky and Ill take a shot at the sequester question.
Cai Sikorsky we had lower deliveries on military aircraft.
The after market was down  the military after market was down little bit over 20%.
So thats really where you saw the big impact.
The deliveries we knew about but those were partially offset by some strong growth in commercial aircraft deliveries and I think this quarter we have 40 deliveries.
We are expecting north of 240 deliveries for the full year.
So you would expect that volume to increase on as we go throughout the year.
So partly it was just timing of deliveries partly it was particularly in the after market was due to cuts.
As far as the sequester impact Id love to tell you that we can quantify at any better than what we did 30 days ago but unfortunately the customers arent sending us invoices with a 10% reduction for sequester  sequestration.
So were hearing about it we are starting to see a little bit of it in terms of the order intake.
I think Jay talked about the aftermarket was down 10% across aerospace commercial aerospace in the quarter.
And thats really just a reflection again reduced off tempo in Afghanistan but also reduced flying hours here.
We see some of the fighter wings being stood down for the remainder of the year cancelling some of the exhibitions.
And again all of this is going to have an impact on us.
Its just going to take a while for us to play out.
So we continue to say its probably about a $0.10 impact but again its hard to see it beyond that.
I think the bigger concern is on these furloughs of the FAA if they start driving the higher cost on the commercial airlines but that could do the spares but again I think that should be a relatively small impact for us.
You mentioned the military aftermarket down 10% and seeing some cutback in the flying hours.
I think in December you were still kind of asserting at least in March still asserting military aftermarket would be half at Pratt.
It looks like it was down.
So where do you now expect military aftermarket to be for the year at Pratt? At Pratt we were expecting it to be flat to slightly up not much growth there.
In the quarter we actually saw growth in military aftermarket at Pratt really on the back of F100 F119 and F135 spares and that was the F100 and F119 was really more of a reflection of the strong order of sales in 2012 just built a backlog we delivered here in the first quarter.
And the F135 was more a pop-up function of disprovisioning and we have over 80 engines thats been delivered program to date and so its just a matter of provisioning start to accelerate.
And so do you expect the military aftermarket still to be flat to up for the year Pratt? At Pratt we do.
I think were talking about that 10% what you really saw was at Sikorsky and at the Aerospace System we had military aftermarket down about 20%.
So good news at Pratt in the quarter but offsets by bad news at Sikorsky and at UTAS.
I think again the Sikorsky numbers are little bit worse than what we had expected.
On the OEM side we know exactly what were going to be from a military delivery side but spares weve got a little worse than what we expected in Sikorsky.
So need to keep an eye on that as move through the year.
Okay.
And you mentioned you still have the placeholder for CMH deliveries.
Could you give us an update on your progress are out there Canadians? And you know I mean if you dont have you cant say when youre going to have a settlement I mean I assume that the age is going to be a zero until you have an settlement for us? Yeah like were expecting that were going to shift those need in the back half of the year.
But I wouldnt say were not making progress.
We continue to have discussions good discussions with the customer in Canada.
Again this is a very complicated procurement program in Canada with different public works and the department of the defense.
Were working with both sides of the Canadian Government.
Were trying to get through a win-win solution here.
And its just taking a longer than anybody wants in to and obviously were ready to begin pilot training.
There is four aircrafts up in Shearwater.
I think number 26 of the 28 is on the production line down in the West Palm Beach.
So were building them and were still not done with some of the mission software but we are making very good progress with that.
So again well get pass this.
I cant tell you whether its next week or next month or the month after but I still think we have a pathway to deliver additional helicopters and the key for us is to get the pilots training to begin and were pretty close to that.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Strauss of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Good morning Hi Dave Good morning Dave Greg just following up on Cais question the CMH.
The charge that you guys took in the fourth quarter does that reflect delivering the interim configuration aircraft or does it reflect you know not delivering the interim configuration aircraft and waiting till final configuration?  All right so the charge that we took $157 million I think it was in the fourth quarter that assume that we werent going deliver any aircraft until 2015 with all the machine system software would be done.
So it didnt anticipate a interim solution even though we think ultimately thats the best for both ourselves as well as for the customer to head start delivering these interim aircraft get them flying but the charge was a more conservative view of the fact that were going to be able to deliver anything until 2015.
Okay.
So if we get to some sort of agreement that reflects the move towards taking the (inaudible) again the interim configuration aircraft potentially it could some good news.
Yeah but I wouldnt yeah there might be a little bit of good news you are right again this is but again I wouldnt think its going to be a big number.
Okay.
And then China I know you talked about the strength in China overall in Q1 but can you talk about maybe what you saw as we went through the quarter it looks like you know January and February start up very strong but then else weve done in the March and April things might have gone up a little bit.
And I think your guidance for China overall reflects about 7.5% to 8% GDP growth this year you still feel thats the right place to be? Yeah we do.
In fact you see it was a weird compare because the Chinese New Year was in January last year February this year so January start about game busters then February was slow and then March was even better than I think would anybody had expected again were you know the units were up significantly good order intake and even in April I think we continue to see a solid order intake we just did the operating review last week with Otis they were very confident in the China story for the year.
Thanks.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Thanks good morning.
I just wanted to go back to the aero systems margins for a second the implied guidance I think its around 15.6% or even slightly below.
So Im curious is there usually that historically both Goodrich legacy and Hamilton legacy got better the year progress on the margin side and I guess that 90 million purchase accounting thats something that hit you in the first quarter or to your early point Gregg how much conservatives in this way to the aerospace systems? Myles the 90 million is simply charge that was taking in the fourth quarter related to the inventory step-up it just it doesnt repeat because it got the inventories that have got fully liquidated in the fourth quarter.
So what we are dealing here now we just it is recurring earnings which is consistent with our guidance of $2.1 billion.
We based some of what we forecast we expect it to be fairly flat level loaded as far as operating margins throughout the year but as Gregg said its possibly could be some upside its a little early to make that call.
Yeah as you think We had about just under $50 million of net synergy benefit in the first quarter when talking about $200 million for the year obviously those synergy benefits continue to pick up thats going to accretive to margins and again I think theres probably a little bit of good news but its just its April so we are going to wait another quarter here before we decided that its actually that what the upside might be Okay I mean it just seems like the aftermarket we get better historically those margins expand through the course of the year so Im just trying get out  Yeah.
Anything in the first quarter but it sounds like there wasnt?  No I dont disagree with your [thesis] still Myles.
Okay and the other question kind of clean up its on discontinued operations cash it looks like there was a big use in the quarter and I guess I dont know what the cause of that was? Unfortunately the Federal government requires us to pay taxes when we make the gain so the gain on the sale of the industrials which closed in December 15 as we paid the taxes here on the first quarter so that was the big cash outflow.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from George Shapiro Shapiro Research.
Your line is now open.
Yes.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Greg Hamilton Sundstrand had no organic growth in the quarter is that a combination of OE growth after market growth offset by military being down? Yeah I think the commercial after market was essentially flat at the legacy Hamilton business.
Military as I said was down significantly.
And then commercial OE was up I think 8% to 9% in the quarter.
Yeah Okay.
And then at Otis the margin this quarter was a little bit less than I thought.
Is that still a mix issue and where OE was a little bit worse than service and is that change going forward or we still seeing a lot of pressure from the after market renegotiations? I think yeah.
We have  margins were down.
This actually should be the low-point for the year in terms of Otis margins but a big chunk of this was as we  we picked up about a point of mix in the new equipment versus service.
So thats actually detrimental as you know service margins are obviously better than the OE side.
So that was a piece of it.
Again pricing tough around the world tough in China but were holding the margins I think and we should continue to see benefits.
The other thing to keep in mind at Otis or the process is some of this plant transformation.
Were closing our Nogales plant and opening up the facility in Florence South Carolina.
Weve got the new Chongqing plant and there are some expenses in the first half of the year which were actually holding margins down a little bit.
It should get better as we complete those transfers.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Good morning gents.
Nigel.
So I hate to ask you this question but where is the contingency now at the midpoint given the sequester et cetera?  Well its actually  if you remember back in March we said that we were comfortable with analysts consensus which at the time was 610 with about a $0.10 impact from sequestration.
So again there was no contingency at 610.
Again if you go back down to the midpoint to $6 obviously weve got a little bit of good news.
And again as a closeout to quarter  again no surprises here so really there is some puts and takes may be (inaudible) a little better try it a little worse in terms of spares.
But I think overall feel pretty good.
We got benefit from the euro.
Again were seeing that a 128 its been 132 133.
So right now I would just tell you in around 610 there is no contingency but that includes an impact from sequestration.
And we will expect well see over the course of the year.
Okay.
So no change thats great.
And then switching to Otis obviously you have great backlog performance this quarter but how does margin look on that backlog? Actually margin doesnt look bad.
I mean here again pricing is tough in China so the margins there are going to be a little bit under pressure.
But again as we fill up the factories with all of these orders going through thats going to help overall margins there.
So even though new equipment the sold margins are a little late I think we can pick that up.
And then in North America were actually seeing much stronger better stronger margins in the new equipment.
Pricing has stabilized.
Were not seeing again all of the say cuts or competition that we had.
And again the market is picking up.
So thats good news on new equipment margins.
Yeah.
Otis continues to take out cost theyve done a great job of taking out cost of the elevator unit cost sorry page will show that in the March meeting and thats going to continue.
So feel confident that margins will remain and well leverage the volume going forward.
Okay.
And then just going back to Jeffs question on the CCS copper prices obviously down thats similar pricing holds on the equipments why wont steel or copper price benefit the second half of the year as you go through this own hedges?  Mostly because weve got the year locked in at a price of little bit above what the current market is so the market is I think around 320 today because of concerns over China we could see that $320 moved to $360 or $370 I think pretty quickly but we are locked in for the year so the CCS guidance as soon as locked in copper no real benefits from further commodity cost reductions again that benefit again well see it next year as we will start to lock in buys for next year in todays lower prices.
I see.
And then just one quick one obviously container was down this quarter but orders suggest thats going to come back strongly in 2Q and beyond how much mix headwind did you have from container this quarter?  Well in terms of  On CCS margins?  I dont know whether I got that number off to the top of my head.
Yeah we dont I mean again one thing I would say about CCS is there operating margins across the board are fairly even so we got much more balanced and I am not sure that it had a huge impact we will take a double to look at it again and I think we will get back to you on that.
Okay that would be great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Julian Mitchell of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Thanks a lot.
Yeah so I guess my first question is within CCS.
Youve had a bunch of companies Ingersoll Schneider and so on complaining about how weak foreign security is as an end market right now.
Could you just remind us how much of CCS post all these divestments is foreign security and what your sort of expectations off for the year in that business? Just one second Julian and I will give it that for you.
So I think see here as I would think about Fire &amp; Security again the products piece of the Fire &amp; Security business has actually done quite well.
You see pretty good strength here in North America.
Its been a little bit weaker in Europe.
Were really seeing kind of the headwind has been on the service side in Europe and thats been really a result of just whats going on economically here in some of the services businesses but margins have not been very good.
Were trying to be a little bit more selective there.
But in China for instance I think securities are up very strong.
We had a good traction with the GSP business.
Correct I dont know Jay do you have the exact...
Just rough order of magnitude here Julian out of the $17 billion portfolio about $6 billion is Fire &amp; Security.
Got it.
And youre expecting that to be kind of flattish or up inline with CCS overall for the year? Yeah I think on the product side youd expected to be up inline and then on the service side a little bit light to that overall kind of 5% growth.
It varies regionally in Europe the expectation again were flattish and maybe up slightly.
Sure thanks.
And then just my follow up would be again just circling back to the Otis margins.
As you said Q1 you had you didnt have sort of the operational leverage showing up because of the mix of OE versus services.
I guess its likely that European service stays weak and the Otis suggests the OE growth in terms of revenue should accelerate.
So youre probably dealing with that mix hit for the balance of the year.
Do you therefore expecting an offset to come from a lot more restructuring savings coming through already just the falling out of those costs around the plants transformation? Its obviously a combination of both.
Otis is pretty aggressive with restructuring last year.
Theyve got more restructuring to do this year.
We should be accretive to margins and then you got the factory transformation which get done really by mid-year.
So thats all going to be help I think on the margin mix side.
Okay.
The Q2 you already see the margins going up sequentially and may be year-on-year? Yeah theyre positioned Yes.
Yes absolutely.
Okay thank you.
All right Julian.
Thank you much.
I will thank everyone for listening today.
We look forward to seeing you on the road this quarter and the Investor Relations team is standing by to take your questions.
So thanks very much and have a wonderful day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in todays conference.
This does conclude todays program.
You may all disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies second quarter conference call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Jay Malave Director of Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTCs website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and one-time items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTCs SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to two questions per caller to give everyone an opportunity to participate.
You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself in the queue and we will answer as time permits.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Okay thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As you saw in the press release this morning UTC reported second quarter earnings per share of $1.70 that's up 5% versus 2012 with better than expected segment operating profit growth and higher net gains.
Second half profit grew by 15% led by strong performance at Climate Controls and Security and also with the benefit of the Goodrich and IAE acquisitions.
Gains in the quarter receded restructuring by $0.05 as compared to $0.04 last year and taxes were a $0.13 headwind to earnings growth.
You recall that last year we had about 23% effective tax rate in the second quarter as compared to about 28% this quarter.
So the solid first half of the year given an uneven economic environment.
We have accelerated restructuring positioned the business now for further growth.
Additional restructuring savings combined with good orders momentum and easier compares in the back half give us confidence to increase the bottom end of the EPS guidance range so you saw the press release.
We now expect earnings per share of $6 to $6.15.
That's growth of 12% to 15% an increase with our prior guidance of $5.85 to $6.15.
We continue to expect double-digit earnings growth despite these uneven end markets.
In the U.S.
the potential fed tightening caused some volatility in the markets but we still believe the economy is recovering and we are seeing strengthen in the leading sectors.
Auto sales were up 8% in the first half and are growing at the fastest rate in five years.
Housing starts are 24% higher year-to-date.
And in commercial construction the Architectural Billing Index has shown expansion in eight of the last nine months so good progress in the US.
Europe of course a little different store with unemployment now over 12% in the PMI or Purchasing Managers Index consistently below 50 and we didn't plan for much growth in 2013 but the fact of the matter is we are actually still seeing a slight contraction in sales in Europe.
Year-to-date sales are down about 3% across our commercial businesses.
On the other hand we do see continued strength in China and we are all cautiously watching the economic indicators coming out of China.
We talked about some falling imports exports tightening of credit markets lower GDP forecasts so whether it's 7% or 7.5% GDP growth is still one of the fastest-growing markets.
Because fixed investments has continued to grow and that's driving very strong order growth at both Otis and CCS.
Aerospace we continue to see strong growth in the commercial aviation industry.
RPM's up 5.6% in the month of May airlines are now projected to earn over $12.7 billion for the year.
While we continue to see pressure in the military and particularly at Sikorsky the overall aerospace industry remains very healthy.
Okay.
Let's talk about orders for a second.
We are on slide two for those of you following along on the webcast.
I talked about economic uncertainty remains but as you can see on slide two overall our orders positioned us well for growth in the second half of the year.
Just as a reminder we talk orders at constant currency as we normally do.
Otis as we mentioned very strong quarter 22% growth in new equipment orders.
That was led by China with 35% growth.
That's 32% growth in China year-to-date for Otis so very strong recovery.
Climate Controls and Security global equipment orders grew for the third straight quarter.
This reflects the strength in the U.S.
economy where residential HVAC orders were up 19% but partially offset by Europe which was down about 4% across the CCS businesses.
Turning to Aerospace a very encouraging sign of Pratt &amp; Whitney after five quarters of contraction legacy Pratt &amp; Whitney large commercial spare orders grew 15% organically.
And importantly this included growth across all three major engine families PW2000 PW4000 and the V2500.
Aerospace Systems we saw growth for the second straight quarter with orders up 4% on a pro forma basis.
We're still looking for more recovery in the back half but it's good to see growth of both Pratt and UTAS on the commercial spares side.
So in summary despite the uneven end markets strength in the U.S.
emerging markets in commercial aerospace are going to offset the softness that we are seeing in Europe and defense.
Our orders momentum still points towards recovery in the back half but as I said in June with year-to-date.
organic sales down slightly we are now probably going to see organic revenue growth of about 3% for the full year which is at the low end of our prior range so total sales are now expected to be just around $64 billion for the year.
Turning back to Q2 results and on slide three total sales and segment profit increased 16% and 15% respectively.
That's driven of course by Goodrich and IAE acquisitions and the strong operating performance of CCS.
Organically sales were flat versus prior year following a 2% decline in the first quarter.
CCS had another strong quarter 7% operating profit growth and margin expanded to 120 basis points as they continue to realize savings from the integration of carrier in FNS and capitalize on their operating leverage.
Overall segment operating margins at UTC declined 20 basis points with the strength at CCS more offset by headwind from pension and the decline in the military business at Sikorsky.
Goodrich and IAE acquisitions continue to exceed our expectations and contributed $0.20 of earnings in the quarter.
As I mentioned earnings per share of $1.70 include $0.05 gains in excess of restructuring.
$0.19 of the gains in the quarter came from the sale of the Pratt &amp; Whitney Power Systems business and some small tax settlements.
These are more than offset by $190 million we invested in restructuring including $93 million at Pratt &amp; Whitney as we continue to reduce the cost base there.
Foreign currency small impact of about $0.01 in the quarter.
Free cash flow 101% of net income.
We repurchased an additional $335 million of stock and we expect to buyback a similar amount here early in the third quarter.
So I will stop here for a second and let Jay take you through the segment results looking back and talk about full year.
Jay? Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page four.
Otis sales improved 4% at constant currency in the quarter led by solid high-single digit growth in new equipment and continued growth in service sales.
New equipment sales were up in all regions led by double-digit growth in China and Russia.
Operating profit was up 1% at constant currency.
Solid growth in China and other emerging markets was offset by continued weakness in developed Europe and transition costs associated with the factory transformation in North America.
New equipment order growth was strong up 22% at constant currency with double digit growth in Americas and Asia led by a 35% improvement in China.
Orders in Europe were down mid-single digit.
Given continued pressure in Europe and a significantly weaker Yen we now expect full year profit growth at Otis of $75 million to $100 million versus the prior range of $100 million to $150 million.
We expect profit improvement to come in the second half based on conversion of a higher new equipment backlog especially in China continued savings from restructuring and completion of the factory transformations in North America.
On slide five.
Climate Controls and Security increased profits to 7% in the quarter on 1% lower sales resulting in another sharp increase in margins up 120 basis points from prior year to 16.9%.
Organic sales were up 1% with mixed results across geographies.
Europe was down mid-single digit amid continued economic weakness in the region while Americas was up low single-digit driven by 13% growth in the residential HVAC business.
China was also up mid-single digit while Asia overall was flattish driven by a decline in Australia.
Transicold was up 11%.
While the organic growth in the quarter was modest this was the first quarter of growth in over a year and we anticipate acceleration through the remainder of the year.
On profit CCS had another solid quarter of earnings growth driven by strong conversion on the higher organic sales restructuring and productivity including continued savings from the consolidation of carrier and fire and security and lower commodity cost.
Global commercial HVAC orders were flattish with 10% growth in Asia offsetting declines in North America and Europe.
Orders for global fire and security products were up mid-single digit while the fuel businesses were down a similar amount.
Transicold orders were up 5% and commercial refrigeration orders in Europe were down 5%.
With solid results in the first half and anticipated organic improvement we now expect profit growth to be in the range of $175 million to $200 million up from $150 million to $200 million on low-single digit organic sales growth at CCS.
Turning to aerospace on slide six.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney sales and profit increased 5% in the second quarter.
Higher sales were driven by the consolidation of IAE and transfer of the AeroPower business.
Organically sales were down 6% year-over-year due to lower military engine shipments partially offset by higher large commercial engine OEM sales.
Large commercial spare sales were up 2% organically over last year's second quarter.
On a pro forma basis including consolidated IAE sales in both quarters large commercial spare sales were up 5%.
Profit growth was driven by the benefits from the IAE consolidation restructuring savings and lower E&amp;D partially offset by lower organic sales and higher pension costs.
In addition the absence of favorable one-time items in last year's second quarter offset the benefit of a commercial contract closeout this quarter As Greg mentioned Pratt &amp; Whitney large commercial spares orders were up 15% organically.
Based on year-to-date sales however we now expect large commercial spares to be flattish for the year organically from up mid-single digits.
Pratt &amp; Whitney's proactive cost reduction and restructuring measures give us confidence in its full year profit growth outlook of $100 million to $150 million and mid-single digit sales growth.
UTC Aerospace Systems delivered another solid quarter with operating profit of $532 million and sales of $3.3 billion.
On a pro forma year-over-year basis sales were up mid-single digit with commercial OEM up double digits and commercial aftermarket up mid-single digit partially offset by declines in military OEM and military aftermarket of mid-single digit and low-single digit respectively.
Orders for commercial spares grew 4% on a pro forma year-over-year basis.
Compared with the first quarter profit was up 4% on 2% higher sales driven by solid conversion on sales growth and continued synergies capture.
With the first half of the year complete we now expect full year sales to be around $13.5 billion the low end of our previous guidance range of $13.5 billion to $14 billion.
We continue to expect operating profit of around $2.1 billion in spite of lower sales due to continued cost containment and better than expected synergy traction.
Turning to Sikorsky on slide eight operating profit decreased 24% and 3% lower sales.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 62 aircraft including 47 based on military platforms and 15 commercial.
Sales decrease was driven by lower military aftermarket volumes as well as unfavorable military aircraft mix partially offset by higher commercial volumes.
The profit decline was driven by lower sales as well as headwinds from the multi-year 8 margin reset and higher pension and export compliance costs.
For the full year we continue to expect profit to be down $100 million $150 million and low single digit sales growth.
We expect profit improvement in the second half and benefits of higher aircraft volumes and restructuring savings.
With that let me turn it over to Greg to wrap up.
Okay.
Thanks Jay.
So I am happy to report that with the completion of the Rocketdyne divestiture in June we are now done with the major portfolio transformation.
Entire organization took on a huge task over the last two years complete two significant acquisitions integrate new organizations divest over $4 billion worth of businesses and paid down $7 billion of debt.
I'll tell you that team executed flawlessly.
We now have a portfolio that's well-positioned for long-term growth and we've capitalized on the big the urbanization and commercial [aerospace].
Some other highlights in the quarter we announced significant wins across our aerospace businesses at the Paris Air Show.
Pratt &amp; Whitney announced orders for over 1 000 engines and claim orders for the launch of the second-generation Embraer regional jet.
Customers see the advantage of our engine and have placed firm and option orders now for over 4 500 engines.
UTAS Aerospace Systems business is also well positioned with the electric system cell wheels and brakes and other systems at Embraer.
They also secured new long-term MRO contracts from several airlines and supported Airbus in the certification A400M.
Sikorsky continues to see strong international demand announcing orders for 11 S-76D search and rescue helicopters for Japan and 6 additional S-92 for the Chinese oil and gas market.
On the commercial side our business has continued to win key orders.
Otis was awarded the largest elevator contract ever in India.
We sold 670 elevators and escalators for the Hyderabad Metro.
Otis also won a contract to install 255-unit at Tianjin 117 which is nearly 600 meters will be one of the tallest buildings in China.
CCS was rewarded the contract in the quarter with China resources land to provide HVAC fire detection system in residential and commercial buildings across China over the next two years.
So the investment in innovative products is paying off.
We are delivering real value to our customers and securing keywords that will drive top line growth well into the future.
Okay.
Let's take a look at rest of 2013.
As I mentioned we now see earnings of $6 to $6.15.
That's the top end of our prior range and represents earnings growth of 12% to 15%.
Our relentless focus on cost reduction will allow us to delivery double-digit earnings growth.
We continue to invest in restructuring as well.
We spent about $240 million in the first half of the year and the businesses have good payback projects in the pipeline.
With almost $435 million of one time gains realized to-date on a pretax basis we now expect about $450 million of both gains and restructuring for the full year.
Thats up from our prior estimate of $350 million each.
So you can expect about $100 million of restructuring in each of the next two quarters.
Strong cash flow of course remains the hallmark of UTC and we continue to expect free cash flow to equal or exceed net income for the year.
We paid down $1.2 billion of debt in the second quarter.
Thats almost $1.6 billion in the first half and we have an additional $1 billion due in the fourth quarter.
So we will pay down about $2.5 billion of debt this year.
We are also buying back shares.
The remaining $335 million in our original share repurchase plan will be completed here early in the third quarter and we expect to do a little bit more towards the end of the third quarter or early fourth quarter assuming cash flow remains strong.
So portfolio transformations behind us we are focused on integration and execution and we are seeing a gradual recovery in our end markets.
The order book supports a resumption of organic growth in the back half and we are confident in the revised EPS guidance.
So with that Bob let's open up the call for questions if we can.
Our first question is from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Hello Carter.
Mr.
Copeland if you wouldnt mind checking your mute button.
Moving on to our next question in queue from Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Just a couple of questions.
Greg first just on share repurchase.
So you are going to blow through your placeholder really quick but it still sounds like you are kind of soft cuddling in the back of the year? Can you just give us some thought on how cash looks in the back half? Your effort to maybe repatriate some foreign cash that you talked about and why there wouldnt be room for that that repu to come up a little bit more? Yes.
So this year was the soft peddling in the share buyback.
We are going to take it up.
I think the question is how much.
I said we are having $200 million $300 million $400 million and it will really depend upon strong cash flows in the back half of the year.
As you know CapEx is at a ramp.
We spent a little over $600 million year-to-date and we have got plans for about $1.7 billion.
So there is still a call on cash in the back half of the year which is a little higher than what we expect.
We will also as I said are paying down about $2.5 billion of debt and you recall going into the year we talked about only about $1 billion of debt due.
So I think we have been aggressive on the debt paydown.
We have got CapEx in front of us but we still have room to take share buyback up and we have still got that $1 billion placeholder out there for M&amp;A.
Not a lot going on but there is always the possibility something could still happen for the year.
So I think we are in line to do more share buyback and clearly if the M&amp;A doesnt happen it gives us a little bit more room but I am just going to tell you there is other calls on cash right now.
Right got it.
Understood.
Also could you just give us your quick take on what your pension tailwind looks like for next year? If you were to snap a line today at these interest rates? So obviously there is going to be tailwinds next year in the pension.
There is a lot of things going on there.
First of all you have got the fact that four years ago we decided to sell the plant so we have taken the tough actions and that gives us tailwind.
We also have losses for 2008 that come off.
And you have got (inaudible) about 4.6% on a discount rate versus 3.% last year.
You guys know how to do the math.
Thats about $28 million to $29 million (inaudible) basis points.
So there is definite tailwind from pension next year.
Again it is a little early because there is other assumptions that go into the pension number for tailwind and all that but for the most part there will be pretty good tailwind next year.
Then finally and I will move on but just on China Otis can you just give us a little more color on where you are seeing the strength? Is it broad or is it less than China? And just what's going on kind of competitively with pricing in particular.
Yes.
So we talked about it.
Orders on a constant currency basis were up 35%.
I think HVAC were 39% orders growth and sales were up about 20%.
We also saw pretty good traction on the service business with sales up 25% so good strength there.
Pricing remains tough but the margins are holding up in China because we continue to be able to take cost out of the supply chain and leverage on the higher volumes.
As I think about specifically from a market perspective where we are seeing the growth residential was obviously the key.
It is the biggest market for Otis elevators and it is very very strong still despite some of the cooling measures we've also seen the commercial office buildings start to improve.
Social housing has kind of leveled off.
I think Otis would tell you today that the market is going a lot faster than what we had anticipated going into the year and I think these order rates more than support that.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue is from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Nice numbers.
A couple things Greg and kind of rattle through them.
One on interest expense I can never seem to get it right.
You are refinancing you are taking some charges for doing some things.
Could you just give us a range of what you think you could look for interest expense for the full year? Howard for the year we are in the range of about $950 million is what we would expect it should be for the year.
Okay.
You took some fairly substantial actions at Pratt to lower cost.
Could you talk about some of the benefits from the operating leverage that you expect in the second half of the year and going forward given the change in mix and other things? Yes.
So back half of the year Pratt's good.
Obviously the spares are not going to be as we had expected originally going in.
And we talked about kind of 5% growth or so in spares going into the year probably more like flattish given how low the first half was but again good orders momentum.
We should clearly get some traction out of spares in the back half of the year.
We took out I think about 575 people took advantage of the voluntary early retirement program that we just offered.
That will help again in the back half of the year add some earnings growth to Pratt.
We are taking some other actions around the business as well to take advantage of some of the cost reduction opportunities out there.
R&amp;D is coming down as we had expected about at probably $75 million $500 million.
I think it was down about $14 million in the second quarter $35 million in the first so we are half way there in terms of the R&amp;D reduction so a lot of good things going on at Pratt.
Spares are coming back and this is a tough year at Pratt.
We got this big trough because military engines are coming down significantly.
Although mill spares that had held up pretty well and you've got an increase in the commercial shipments which as you know come with a little bit of a bill.
You changed management at Pratt commercial kind of separated the organization into two.
What are the marching orders for the two gentlemen going forward on that? Yes.
So (Inaudible) call because he led that business he is President for the last seven years.
He is the guy that has been at the forefront of the GTF marketing campaign.
On that side he's done a hell of a job but it's a huge job.
And I think what we have decided to do what Dave Hess and Alain have done is to split that up between an aftermarket focus and an OEM focus so Dave Brantner is going to take over.
He is head of the OEM side of the Commercial Engine business President there.
Then Matthew Bromberg who is Head of our strategy development group for the last couple of years who is going to lead the aftermarket and his focus is simply on making sure we have a flawless launch on the GTF and making sure that we capture the aftermarket channel going forward on all of these GTF orders that we won.
So again I think it makes a lot of sense [Greg] is going to focus on getting engines delivered getting cost down winning new campaigns and Matthew is going to focus on that moving that aftermarket and continuing to drive growth in the aftermarket.
I just have one last question.
787 has had some challenges in operation are very minor ones but some of it comes back to working on and enhancing the reliability of the electrical system.
What are you doing there and can you talk some of the improvements you've made already? Yes Howard as you know I think with any new airplane there is always teething problems and we have had a couple of issues of the electric power system and we worked closely with Boeing during the production hiatus.
I think we took the opportunity to go out there and to improve reliability of some of our power panels where we had a couple of issues.
There is just constant teething problems but again because the 787 has got so much publicity I think people are hearing a lot more about it but the fact is this plane is as reliable and more reliable than the 777 was when it was introduced into service.
Our systems are doing very very well.
So well here we have got a lot of systems nine major systems on the aircraft.
Each one might have a minor glitch but I think overall The Boeing Company would tell you that are working very closely with them to get all these things behind us.
Our next question in queue is from Shannon O'Callaghan of Nomura.
Your line is open.
Hey Greg a couple of things in CC&amp;S.
Maybe can you just give us a sense of how you are thinking about the second half there.
Transicold you had revenues up 11% but orders I think you said up 5%.
That looks like make it slows a bit.
Can you gauge the different components of the CC&amp;S in the second half? I think we go through all of the CCS businesses.
Obviously Transicold is an important part but not the only part but we did see decent order growth in the second quarter and sales were up mostly because of the very easy compare last year.
You recall last year on the container side we didnt get any orders I think from May through September in that business.
So the compares get very east in the back half of the year and we continue to see pretty good traction on the container side.
Also on the truck trailer side both North America and Europe are seeing good order growth.
Europe surprisingly is strong given where the economy is but thats all coming from cold chain expansion in the Eastern European area.
So that business is doing well.
The thing about res in the U.S.
again very strong orders growth good revenue growth.
We think that trend is going to continue and it will support a very strong back to the year.
So if you think about it first half of the year we didnt get much growth out of CCS in total but we did get growth in some key markets.
Again China was another place where we saw good growth at CCS.
Orders I think on commercial HVAC were up about 15% 16%.
F&amp;S products were up over 30%.
So there is good momentum in the emerging markets despite the fact that Europe overall was down 1% I guess on commercial and a couple of points on the F&amp;S business.
So lots of moving pieces.
We have taken the revenue guidance down for CCS.
We now expect probably around 3% organic revenue growth for the full year which still indicates pretty solid growth in the back half of the year.
Okay great thanks.
Then just so taking up the restructuring.
In terms of the payback what kind of year-over-year savings do you now expect in '14 from the actions you are taking? One of these programs run average about two years Shannon.
So this year we are talking about incremental $100 million plus.
So you are probably looking next year in that range of another $100 million of these actions.
So that total in terms of the total $450 million how much year-over-year sales growth? So it gives us about $100 million of benefit this year because we have taken a lot of these actions in the first half year and a lot of them are on the quicker payback like the voluntary early retirement program that we have done at Pratt.
So the other headcount actions we have taken at CCS and UTAS.
Some of the other things that we are still doing in the back half will be a little bit longer payback probably 1.5 to two years.
So its going to be $100 million this year and then $100 million to $125 million next year of savings.
So it will be probably $250 million of runrate savings by the end of next year.
Our next question in the queue is from Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Just following up actually on the restructuring.
Greg are you seeing the same payback opportunities now on some of these new projects that you were a year ago or two years ago when you look just across the company and you look going forward do you think there is continued opportunity and the same kind of quality opportunities as we look into next year as you have seen in the past? Joe we came into this year thinking we probably do $150 million to $200 million of restructuring.
The fact is restructuring is a way of life here at UTC.
It's how we drive productivity.
I will tell you that we just continue to come up with good payback programs.
There are some things out there that some of these structural factory the actions that take a little bit longer.
Obviously some of the UTAS actions that we are taking as we consolidate Goodrich it will take a little bit longer to payback but on average even with all that said we are still looking at two years or less payback for all of these programs.
Okay.
Could you provide an update on CMH? There were some they were media flurry the last few days.
Just with some implications that they are still not taking helicopters.
I know that's not new but just an update on the program.
And I guess underlying the question what is your level of confidence that this does not turn into a much much bigger deal down the road? I would tell you I feel better about CMH today than we have probably in the last year.
We are gaining momentum with the customer.
I think importantly we are going to start pilot training in August so another month.
We've got four helicopters up in Shearwater Canada.
That's going to serve pilot training.
We've got another five helicopters that are sitting up in Hartford New York ready to be delivered.
Two more in flight test.
The 8 that we talked about going into the year I think we've got a solid plan to deliver those.
Still some issues obviously to work through with our customer but I think again we are seeing positive momentum.
I don't think we are going to see a big big bad news item coming out of here.
I think here you saw some things in the really impressed with the seeking 50 years into service and it's been a great helicopter but again 50 years and they are starting to have some issues with that helicopter.
We got the best military helicopter sitting right there ready to go so I think it's all pretty positive right now.
Rick has really done a great job with the whole team and starting to sing around.
Okay.
Then just one more quick one.
On UTAS spares do you still expect high single-digit or 10% I thinks is your exact guidance.
I know you dropped the sales guidance a little bit there or to the lower end of the range but specifically on spares.
So spares at UTAS I think were up about 4% on a pro forma basis in the quarter.
They were up.
For the full year we had talked about 10%.
That's probably going to be more like 7% or so by the time we get all done just because we haven't seen the first half growth but continue to see pretty solid growth.
Now looking at parts versus provisioning remember we sell both spare parts as well as end items.
Spare parts in the quarter were up over 10%.
Provisioning was down about 10% so still provisioning is a little bit lumpy.
I talked to the guys yesterday.
They see that we have got line of sight on the provisioning number to hit the full year so pretty confident we are going to get in the mid-7% maybe 8% range.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue is from Ron Epstein of Bank of America / Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Just a couple.
On the Pratt orders can you describe in more detail where you've seen them coming from? Is it you are seeing from the freighter market or where has the order activity pick up come from? I think obviously freighters is an important part but I think most of the orders could actually come on the commercial airline side.
As Jay mentioned I think we talked about in the script PW2000 spares were up significantly.
The 4000s were up over 15% and Vs were up almost 15% so we're really seeing strength across the board.
Inductions into the engine centers are down year-over-year and content hasn't really improved but we know as these planes keep flying the customers need parts and that can go only so long and the glue we've been talking this one is a four quarters five quarters or six quarters eventually spares come back and I think that's what we saw this quarter and we expect that kind of momentum to continue into the back half of the year.
Is there any regional strength maybe you are seeing that starting to come out? North America the Europe and Asia if you could characterize that? Ron Pratt legacy fleet is more concentrate in North America and Asia so we saw that pretty much across the board there.
The V2500 fleet is a little bit more broad-based excluding Europe.
Again there wasn't any one particular region.
It really stood out one way or the other.
It's pretty even.
Okay.
Great.
Then Maybe one more Greg if you don't mind.
A much bigger picture question.
Now that the portfolio reshaping I guess the settle down what has to happen for you guys to feel comfortable again about maybe adding something else to the mix right? Is there a bias towards aero? Is there a bias towards industrial? I mean how should we think about and I know this is a longer term question about where you want to go with the portfolio over the next several years? As we said the portfolio at least for the near term is set.
I think we are 55% Aero 45% commercial.
Eventually we would like to probably get back to kind of a 50/50 split.
But for right now we like the hand we have got.
Especially with what's going on on the other commercial Aero side.
So the focus right now is really at execution.
The next deal I would tell you that again as you think about the 50/50 split it will probably be on the commercial side.
I know Geraud has some ideas [Major] has some ideas.
Nothing really imminent though and I think again we have got a lot on our plate right now and we would like to handle that.
Urbanization continues to drive and will drive strong organic growth for years to come on the commercial side and also help on the Aero side.
So I wouldnt look for anything big coming out of UTX for a few years.
Our next question in queue is from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
Just back on the restructuring.
The incremental $100 million can you talk about which segments those are in? Then related what are the favorable items that are coming in to offset that that werent unexpected earlier? So most of the favorable items we have actually already seen them.
We had a gain this quarter from Pratt power to sales Pratt power systems.
We also had a couple of small tax settlements out there with the IRS that gave us a little bit.
There maybe one or two more small divestitures on the CCS side that might generate a little bit more gain.
So the gains are pretty much done.
As far as the actual spend in the back half of the year I think you will see that across the business here UTAS again we have talked about this they have got about $100 million spend planned for the year.
They have got some work to do to get to that $100 million but they have got a lot of projects lined up.
Pratt continues to look for things on the aftermarket side to do in terms of consolidation.
More to come there.
Obviously Otis in Europe has some work to do with sales continuing to atrophy there on service side.
Pedro and team I know are looking for ways to take some structural cost out of Europe.
So I would expect more to come there.
Really again everywhere we look we find opportunities to reduce cost.
It's amazing what Geraud and the CCS team have done as they brought F&amp;S and Carrier together.
They are on a run rate to probably take $200 million of cost out of the business which is credible.
So always opportunities and it will be spread across all businesses.
Okay and then you talked about for Otis the profit being a little bit worse because of Europe and the weaker Yen.
Are those about equal and is there anything thats a positive move thats offsetting? Well Sam if you look at the move from the midpoint to the midpoint and you are talking about $38 million two thirds of that was the currency that was driven by the yen.
Then the other third was essentially the net weakness from Europe partially offset by higher restructuring and some rebuilding in China.
Okay and then the last question is you had talked I guess in the last month about the F100 court case.
I guess as we look out into the remainder of the year is there an additional reserve that we should be looking for or any sort of a cash impact as we go forward? Gregory Hayes No and no.
For those of you that what we are talking about here is the FEC or Fighter Engine Competition that started in 1983.
I think just (inaudible) that thats not my fault.
So the whole issue here is we had the case.
We had won it at the trial court.
Government appealed it.
It was remanded back to the trial judge.
Right now based upon outside legal counsel and our review we believe that we will prevail on appeal.
So we have not taken any reserve associated with this and we would not expect to have any cash impact on this for quite some time.
The way these court cases work I have my General Counsel sitting here it will probably be a year and half or so before we ever get any resolution on this thing again.
It has been going on for 30 years.
So we continue to believe the government wasnt harmed and as you take a look at the 10-Q which we are going to file on Friday we will have expanded disclosure in there.
So you can go through all that and if you have any questions give us a call but bottom line is we think we are going to prevail on appeal.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue is from Peter Arment of Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Just first question I guess on Pratt &amp; Whitney I get the margin there really from the consolidation and some of the restructuring gains but I was surprised just given the amount of commercial engine ramps particularly in large commercial.
Is that the level we should be expecting for the second half with a sequential uptick? On the OE? On the OE side.
Yes.
The OE should be growing a little bit in the second half.
In the quarter we had higher shipments particularly in the wide-bodies with the GP7000 and A380.
And for the year we are expecting GP7000 to still be up year-over-year so we will see some growth there.
Even now I don't know if it will be significantly higher than where it is today.
I think what we did in the quarter is generally speaking probably where you would be.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Then just a quick one on Sikorsky I get that domestic DoD pressures.
Can you just give us an update or color on some of the major international pursuits that are out there? I think Sikorsky continues to make good progress on the international side.
We are working with Turkey on a relatively large opportunity there with the Turkish Utility Helicopter program.
We expect to get something finalized by the end of the year there.
The India navy contract has been a little bit of a disappointment just because it keeps pushing out to the west but we've had good traction in Brazil.
We've had good traction in Columbia and the Middle East.
So again there's lots of foreign military opportunities out there and Sikorsky continues doing more than its fair share.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue is from Cai von Rumohr of Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Can you comment give us some color on the impact at carrier of the blistering heat wave we've had in the U.S.
and Europe in July? It's good to own a air conditioning company when it's hotter.
We talked about this Cai the orders were up almost 20% in the quarter of res side.
Yes but you basically didn't see the heat wave in June.
You saw it in July which is.
So sales were up 12% 13% order were even more.
The fact is it takes some time to actually see that come through the channel.
It's two-step distribution so we sell into through our major distributors who then sell up to dealers so we would expect to see some level of good news yet here in the July-August.
I think orders have continued to be pretty good.
In Paris you were kind of talking about things being somewhat better and it looks like things were definitely more than somewhat better particularly on the 4000s.
Was there sequential improvement as I read that you went through that quarter and kind of give us any color on what you are seeing in July? Sequentially in the quarter sales were up about 50% and orders were up over 30% sequentially.
Talking about attached to PW4000.
That was just in total.
On 4000 itself I would have to get back to you on that Cai.
I think Cai that the fact as we started to see orders pick up April and May I think it just accelerated into June.
We had a very good month in June of bookings but it's hard to point at any one thing in particularly other than just kind of pent-up demand that we've been talking about for the last year.
So again one month or one quarter is not a trend make but we feel pretty good about the back half of the year.
Frankly we are seeing here the 23rd of July I think orders are okay here but I don't think I want to be giving order data on a weekly basis here pretty lumpy.
Just in terms of color did this sort of sequential improvement continue in July is best you can tell? Cai I'll have to get back to you on that.
I don't really recall.
I focus more on second quarter and third quarter but we'll take a look and see if there is anything significant there.
Terrific.
The last question you mentioned that military after market was weak at Sikorsky maybe give us a broader view of kind of the impact you are seeing or expect to see from sequestration and basically military aftermarket across the company.
Yes so military sales or military aftermarket sales were down about 25% at the Sikorsky in the quarter and orders were down about 40%.
It is hard to delineate between just the budget cuts and what's going on as the overseas continuity operations wind down versus sequestration.
There has been some impact from sequestration just because it is taking us longer to get orders processed through the government to get contracts amended and things like that done.
But its a pretty tough environment on the aftermarket side but not surprising the overseas continuity operations the fund is down about half and Sikorsky of course is the big gun of this year of the Afghanistan campaign.
So some of that is just natural and a little bit is also from sequestration.
Our next question in queue is from Robert Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
Your line is open.
Greg just a couple of quick balance sheet questions.
You have got around $5 billion of cash on the balance sheet.
Do you think thats a good safe number to keep going forward? Or do you see an opportunity to bring that down going forward? The issue of the $5 billion Rob as you know as most of that is sitting overseas.
It's not all of that right now.
We use that cash on a daily basis.
We have got an inter company lending program where we lend out to the businesses for working capital needs.
Thats not $5 billion.
You have also got a lot of cash over $1 billion sitting in China that continues to grow as the businesses there continue to generate strong cash flows but hard to get at.
So how much do you really need? Probably half of what's on the books.
The other half it it's just hard to get at and quite frankly from a tax perspective very expensive to bring back to the U.S.
We talked a lot about this.
One of the benefits of the foreign cash is it does give the opportunity to make investments overseas and to do acquisitions overseas.
So when you think about the M&amp;A agenda thats probably where to look next.
Okay and then secondly on the balance sheet.
You mentioned you have got about another $1 billion of debt you want to pay down this year.
if you look at it over the longer term what's your thinking on debt repayment on say a five year period? We have got over a $1 billion thats due in December.
Its the eighteen month floating rate note that we issued last May.
That will actually get paid off.
Then I would say there is no debt payments due next year although I would expect we will probably do another $1 billion of paydown next year and probably another $1 billion of paydown the following year.
We are trying to get back into that solid A range with the rating agencies.
So again I think I would model $1 billion $1.5 billion of paydown each over the next few years and there is not much due after that.
But again I think we will continue to deleverage and so we see an opportunity to do something more significant on the M&amp;A side.
Our next question is from Julian Mitchell of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
I just had a question on Otis profits.
I am looking at the guidance.
It seems that you are assuming around flattish margins year-on-year in the second half.
After that it would be down about 70 bips in the first half.
I just wondered does the guidance embed any sequential or year-on-year improvement in your European aftermarket volume or price? No in fact I think Europe in the first half has been a drag over probably over $40 million of headwind here in the quarter or first half rather from Otis's service business in Europe but we think they are starting to stabilize although there is still a little bit of pressure particularly in Southern Europe.
Year-to-date Otis essentially flat earnings.
We have taken the guidance down to $75 million to $100 million.
Piece of that was currency a piece of that's Europe.
But with this very strong orders momentum that we say here in North America as well as China the back half of the year should be very good progress.
There should get back on the path for earnings growth and should be able to hold margins as well.
Okay thanks and then on the overall business I think you mentioned 3% organic sales growth for the full year.
You are running at about minus 1% in the first half.
So does that mean we should expect mid-single digit organic sales growth already in Q3? So otherwise you will need double-digit growth in Q4? Yes it will pick up probably in that mid-single digits in Q3 and Q4 will be even a little better.
Again to think about these Otis orders that we are getting to date it's about a six months turnaround time for the European groups or for the China orders.
The other businesses little bit longer cycle than that.
Spares again order rates are good.
Talking about spares at Pratt were up 15% organically sales only up 2% so very strong book-to-bill so sales will pick up again as we move into the third quarter.
Then lastly I'd just remind you that CMH will deliver in the fourth quarter.
We got eight helicopters.
That's about $400 million of revenue out of Sikorsky just in the last quarter.
Thanks.
Then just lastly a quick one the CapEx is up about 50% the last six months.
is that sort of a good run rate for the second half as well? Yes.
In fact it's going to pick up even a little bit more.
I think we spent over $600 million first half of the year.
We got $1.7 billion plan and that's really being driven by the a aerospace guys as they continue to a ramp up or facilitize for the ramp up in production that we are seeing on the commercial aero side and the new GTF platforms.
Thank you.
Our next question in is from Doug Harned of Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
I am interested in UTAS.
You talked about provisioning being down a little bit but I would think going forward with 787 growth you would see some real benefits from provisioning going forward pretty soon.
So I am interested in how you look at the 787 and UTAS right now both in terms of provisioning but also in terms of any impact we might see with respect to margin on OE deliveries.
Yes.
So provisioning obviously was a little bit slower in the first half of the year than what we had expected because of the production delays echoing.
But again as mentioned before we see pretty good provisioning picking up in the back half of the year especially with all these new customers come online.
I think Boeing is going.
I think right now we are at seven a month.
They are on track to get to 10 a month.
We are going to support that and that's actually going to drive some good provisioning orders.
Keep in mind about half of our customers are on care program where we actually do the provisioning ourselves and then charge a flight hour payment to the airline so we're not getting quite a pick up that we had historically on some of the new program introductions but from a return on investment standpoint it's a really good program.
Benefits both the airlines and UTAS so good back half of the year.
On the OE side it's still a pretty tough story.
We've got about $6.5 million of OE content and the margins are awful and we got a lot of work to do on cost reductions yet on 787 that we talked about this.
We are working with the Boeing Company trying to identify cost reduction opportunities to take cost out for them and us some money but it's a tough slog right now and there's a lot of work to do on cost reduction particularly aero structure side of the business.
I am also interested.
When you look broadly at the whole business you've done quite a bit of restructuring over the last couple of years.
It looks like it's been very successful in terms of delivering better margins getting cost down.
But now when you look ahead you've gotten some very encouraging orders in this last quarter.
Do you see a point here where you are transitioning really a different way to think about the company in terms of more growth potentially less restructuring because you may not need to get your fixed cost base down much more? When could you get comfortable there? I think as soon as we've turned the corner on organic growth but I think as we exit the year but if we do as we expect which should be kind of 5% or 6% run rate going out of the year.
I think we'll need to do further structural cost reduction while it never goes away.
I think again although focus will be on delivering on the organic growth and that just gives us huge operating leverage.
I could imagine CCS grew profits in the first half of the year and really no revenue growth so cost takeout.
That's really been the story in the first half of the year but I got to tell you it's a lot more fun to see the top line growing and to focus on satisfying customer demands and restructuring but restructuring never goes away.
We're always looking for productivity and room to grow margins.
Are you comfortable that with restructuring efforts you have done and you have underway right now you haven't done anything to your base that would constrain your growth you are basically getting to the point where you are prepared for it? Is that correct? That's exactly right.
I think on the aerospace side specifically we moved some work to lower cost locations trying to consolidate work across the UTAS business.
There's still more work to do for the Goodrich and Hamilton Sundstrand consolidation standpoint but we feel very comfortable with where we are with the footprint.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
All right.
And thanks very much.
Alright well thanks to everyone.
I appreciated that you are listening in on the call.
We will obviously be around later in the day so if you have any to answer any of your specific questions but I really appreciate you all listening.
So have a great summer.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And again thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good morning.
And welcome to the United Technologies Third Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jay Malave Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTCs website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and one-time items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTCs SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to two questions per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself into the queue and we will answer as time permit.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
As you saw in the press release this morning UTC recorded third quarter earnings per share of $1.55 thats up 13% versus 2012.
We also saw a resumption of organic growth albeit modest and margin expanded to 16.6%.
Therere always a few bumps in the road such as the recent political impasse in Washington that has threatened economic recovery.
But our strategy to deliver double-digit earnings growth remains in place.
Following solid year-to-date performance we are now confident in our earnings per share range of $6.10 to $6.15 thats growth of 14% to 15% at the high-end of our previous expectation of $6 to $6.15 thats despite slower top line growth.
The majority of our end markets are gradually improving but with defense down more than expected and based on where we are year-to-date we now expect full year sales to be about $63 billion versus our prior estimate of $64 billion.
There are still a couple of puts and takes to the year and as I said earlier this month some headwinds at Otis and Sikorsky but upside at the other segments.
Absent this significant external event we see in fact the high-end of earnings per share range based on our proactive and aggressive restructuring and cost reduction actions as well as improving end markets.
As you see on slide two organic sales grew 1% in the quarter with good growth across most of our end markets tampered by relatively flat European markets and continued significant declines in defense.
Our commercial businesses grew a combined 3%.
We saw a continued recovery in North America with sales up 3% led by residential HVAC and Otis new equipment.
Europe declined 1% China was up 11% and continues to be the bright spot in Asia but overall sales were up only 3%.
Aerospace business continues to see good growth in commercial OEM and recovery in the commercial aftermarket.
Revenue passenger miles were up 6.8% in August and were up 5% year-to-date.
Oil prices have dampened profitability a bit but the airlines are still forecasted to earn $11.7 billion this year and $16.4 billion in 2014.
So a healthy industry and we see this in our business with our commercial aero sales up 7% in the third quarter.
On the other hand the military business remains a headwind with sales down 14%.
We see this impact across our aero businesses but most acutely at Sikorsky.
Given the continued impasse in Washington we dont expect this trend to improve over the next year.
Okay take a look at orders on Slide 3.
At Otis new equipment orders were up 4% a solid growth off a tough compare with the third quarter of last year which had a major contract awarded in the U.K.
North America and China both saw a double digit increases.
Climate Controls and Securities global equipment orders grew 13% as strengthen in Transicold and commercial spares orders were up 17% at Pratt &amp; Whitney and 5% at UTC Aerospace Systems on a pro forma basis.
All right Slide 4; total sales increased 3% in the third quarter.
Net acquisitions including Goodrich closed on July 26 last year contributed two points while the FX impact was negligible.
Segment operating profit grew 14% and operating margins increased 160 basis points.
That includes about 100 basis points from the absence of the inventory step up amortization at UTAS last year.
As you heard from Geraud at our recent Investor Day in Monterrey Mexico CCS continues to drive synergies and leverage their global scale.
Operating profit grew 10% leading to margin expansion of 170 basis points.
Pratt &amp; Whitney also expanded margins 290 basis points on higher commercial aftermarket and aggressive cost reduction.
And Sikorsky maintained double digit margins in the face of significant headwinds from sequestration and reduced defense spending.
So the third quarter earnings per share grew 13% and we initiated $103 million in restructuring actions.
Excluding restructuring and gains for both periods earnings per share grew 19%.
As previously noted we expect to invest about $500 million of restructuring this year including over a $150 million in the fourth quarter.
For the year we continue to expect restructuring to be offset by onetime items.
Free cash on the quarter was 82% of net income.
This was unfavorably impacted by an increase in inventory over $500 million primarily at Pratt &amp; Whitney and Sikorsky as each ramps up their shipments in the fourth quarter.
While we continue to see progress on the CMHP with the commencement of pilot training and were maintaining our [place order] [ph] eight aircraft in the fourth quarter.
In addition to the four aircrafts at the training facility in Shearwater Canada we have six aircraft fully assembled and flight tested at the [Pittsford] [ph] New York storage facility.
Seven are undergoing flight testing at our West Palm Beach facility.
The balance of the 20 aircraft are in production.
As the program continues to advance well provide updates as more progress is made.
The quarter capital expenditures were $383 million a little more than $1 billion year-to-date as we invest with the aero ramp up at both Pratt &amp; Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems.
For the year we expect CapEx to be in the range of $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion as we noted before.
Also in the third quarter we brought back $330 million of stock and we expect to buy back about $200 million in the fourth quarter.
We remain confident that cash flow will equal net income in 2013 and we increased our dividend to $0.59 per share in the quarter a 10.3% increase.
Ill be back to talk about 2014 in just a second but let me stop there and turn it over to Jay as he takes you through the business unit results.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 5 Otis sales improved 4% at constant currency in the quarter led by solid high single digit growth in new equipment and continued growth in service sales.
New equipment sales were up in all regions led by double digit growth in China Russia and the Americas.
Operating profit was flat at constant currency but operating margins remained solid at 22%.
Continued growth in China was largely offset by transition costs associated with the factory transformation in North America.
In developed Europe the rate of profit decline is slowing the sequential growth in northern and Central Europe offsetting the continued weakness in Southern Europe.
New equipment order growth was up 4% at constant currency with mid-teens growth in Americas and Asia with continued double-digit expansion in China.
Orders in Europe were down high single digits as the prior-year benefited from our major contract award in the U.K.
Excluding this award as well as a significant order this quarter Europe new equipment orders grew 12%.
Given the headwind from the manufacturing and supply chain transition from the Nogales Mexico to South Carolina and continued weakness in Southern Europe Otis now expects full-year profits to be up around $25 million from up $75 million to $100 million and mid-single digit sales growth.
On Slide 6 Climate Controls and Security increased profits 10% in the quarter on flattish sales resulting in another sharp increase in margins up 170 basis points from prior year to 17.1%.
CCS is continuing to see slow but steady improvement in organic growth as Q1 was down 3% Q2 was up 1% and now Q3 is up 2%.
As you have seen all year organic growth is mixed across geographies.
Europe was down low single digit.
China was up mid single digit while Asia overall was down about 1% driven by a decline in Australia.
Americas was up low single digit driven by 9% growth in the residential HVAC business.
Transicold was up 22% on a robust recovery in the container market after an exceptionally weak period last year.
On profit CCS had another solid quarter of earnings growth driven by strong conversion on organic sales restructuring and productivity including continued savings from the consolidation of Carrier and Fire and Security and lower commodity costs.
Global commercial HVAC equipment orders were up high single digit with growth in Asia and Europe more than offsetting flat orders in North America.
Orders for global Fire and Security products were up mid single digit while the field businesses were down high single digit.
Commercial refrigeration orders in Europe were up 2% while Transicold was up 17% driven by Container and an easy compare over last year.
With continued solid results through three quarters and steady sequential organic improvement we expect profit growth to be around $200 million the high end of the prior guidance range of $175 million to $200 million and 1% organic sales growth all resulting in operating margin above 15% two years ahead of target.
Turning to aerospace on slide seven.
Pratt &amp; Whitney delivered solid results with 18% profit growth and 5% lower sales resulting in margin expansion of 290 basis points.
Organically sales were flat as 22% growth in commercial spares was offset by lower military engine sales.
Reported sales were down due to the power systems business divestiture.
Profit growth in the quarter was driven by higher commercial spares volume and restructuring benefits partially offset by pension headwinds and lower military volume.
As you recall last year we had the benefit of a supplier settlement that was largely offset by the benefit from licensing agreements this year.
For the full year we now expect Pratt &amp; Whitney operating profit grow $150 million on low single digits sales growth.
We expect profit growth to be at the high end of the prior profit range as large commercial aftermarket has stabilized and the benefits of proactive cost actions are realized.
UTC Aerospace Systems delivered another solid quarter with operating profit of $525 million and sales of $3.3 billion.
On a pro forma year-over-year basis sales were up low single-digit with mid single-digit growth in both commercial OE and aftermarket partially offset by low single-digit declines in both military OE and aftermarket.
Year-on-year profit growth was driven by the absence of last years inventory step-up cost additional market of Goodrich and continued synergies realization.
UTC Aerospace Systems expects to deliver around $250 million in synergies for the year and is well on track towards achieving the $500 million synergies target by 2016.
Orders for commercial spares grew 5% on a pro forma year-over-year basis with improvement in both parts and provisioning.
With approximately $1.6 billion of operating profit generated year-to-date were confident in the full-year operating profit outlook of $2.1 billion and sales of around $13.5 billion.
Turning to Sikorsky operating profit decreased by 21% on 7% lower sales.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 61 aircrafts including 42 based on military platforms and 19 commercial.
The sales decline was driven by lower military OEM and aftermarket volumes partially offset by strong growth in commercial shipments.
The lower overall sales volumes as well as headwinds from higher pension and compliance costs contributed to the operating profit decline.
Sikorsky continues to see robust demand for its commercial product line with orders this quarter of over $400 million a strong backlog in excess of $2.5 billion including approximately $350 million from customers in China as of quarter-end.
For the full year based on continued pressure in military aftermarket we now expect profit to be down around $150 million the low end of our prior guidance range and the low single-digit sales decline versus up low single digits previously.
With that let me turn it over to Greg for wrap up.
Okay.
Thanks Jay.
Before we take a look at 2014 there some other key items to note in the quarter.
In late September we announced the creation of our new buildings and industrial systems organizations under the leadership of Urel Denise.
While they will remain separate reporting segments this will strategically to unite Otis and climate controls and security.
This will create the leading commercial building organization in the industry and will allow us to accelerate growth by fully utilizing our unmatched capabilities and scale.
Building on the success of combining our HVAC and fire and security platforms under CCS two years ago.
This new organization creates opportunities to unlock further synergies and leverage each organizations field network to service customers in a wider geography.
And with 30% of revenues in emerging markets we will focus our innovation on our next-generation buildings and integrating systems where we see opportunities to create value for our customers.
Also in the quarter Pratt &amp; Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems supported the maiden flight of Bombardier C Series aircraft on September 16th in Mirabel Canada.
A PurePower geared turbofan engine performed flawlessly on this historic flight of the first next generation narrow body aircraft.
We are confident that the flight test program will further validate the performance characteristics its noise low emissions significantly better fuel efficiency.
While we always like to focus on the improved fuel burn of the GTF designs just as importantly the GTF noise footprint is up to 75% smaller than todays engine.
And this creates opportunities to fly more direct routes into congested noise controlled airports.
Smaller noise signature also allows to streamlining airport operations to expanded runway usage as well as expanding current operational curfews at airports and heavily populated areas.
This will give airlines the opportunity to work with airports to generate more revenue by opening additional take-off and landing slots a good example of the value creation that our game changing technologies will bring to the table.
Pratt &amp; Whitneys performance its best-in-class technology readiness and program execution is the reason why the GTF has captured orders for more than 4 700 engines.
We also saw the first flight of Boeing 787-9 in the quarter as UTC Aerospace Systems continues to support Boeing in the development of this next generation family of aircraft.
So a busy quarter and several significant milestones at UTC.
Lets change gears for a second here and take a look at 2014.
We had not surprises that compared to what we talked about just a couple of weeks back.
Our strategy remains in place and we continue to target double-digit earnings growth in 2014.
We expect solid growth in commercial aerospace and the commercial construction markets in North America and Asia to more than offset declines in our military aerospace business.
As you all know Europe remains a question mark.
We will take a cautious approach and we are not planning for growth in Europe as we sit here today.
The good news is that we finally seem some tailwind from pension next year.
There were approximately $800 million of pension expense flowing through the P&amp;L this year and it will be a welcome relief to see some benefits for lower acquisition charges and a higher discount rates.
On the other side of the ledger we do have about $0.30 of headwinds from three significant items.
Its obviously continued reduction in defense spending both sequestration as well as the overseas contingency spending.
There is also pressure on the tax rate primarily from the expiration of the tax extenders.
And lastly we will see some headwind from the initial GTF engine deliveries.
It will improve as the technology matures but Pratt &amp; Whitney will face some negative engine margin on deliveries of each platform over the next several years.
These are great long-term progress that point towards bright future for Pratt &amp; Whitney but we will need to work down the learning curve as these aircraft enter service.
So as always some pluses some minuses and question marks as we look towards next year.
We continue to leverage our industry-leading franchises and global scale.
With the right strategy in place well remain committed to delivering double-digit earnings growth once again next year.
So with that lets open up the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) First question is from David Strauss of UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi David.
Hi Greg.
In terms of looking at your revenue guidance and what implies for the fourth quarter it looks like in spite of about 4% organic revenue growth the comps were a little bit tougher relative to the third quarter.
So can you talk about how you get there whats different in the fourth quarter versus your third quarter? I think David you are right.
I think we will see organic revenue growth of about 3% to 4% probably closer to 4% as we sit here today.
Again you are going to see better deliveries at Sikorsky.
I think Sikorsky takes up deliveries to about 80 aircraft in the fourth quarter.
It delivered about 160 year-to-date so you get a little bit a bump there thats both commercial and the military you see a little bit better performance at Pratt especially on the military aero side I think we will ship about 20 JSF engines in the fourth quarter.
And you are going to see on the commercial side an acceleration of organic growth just because of the orders that we are seeing going into the year.
We saw that here in Q3 in orders I think organic was up 4%.
Orders remain strong so we will see again acceleration of growth at Otis and acceleration of growth at CCS into the fourth quarter.
And then on the order side obviously the comps get a lot tougher as well in the [inaudible].
Would you expect order growth will still be positive in the fourth quarter at Otis? Absolutely.
I think Pedro and team would tell you that their order trends remain booking look very strong.
We are still seeing good strength in North America.
We are seeing good strength in China and even Europe is recovering.
Again I think as Jay noted before if you take out that big U.K.
Crossrail order for Q3 of last year I think orders actually grew about 12% there.
So the economies are recovering and commercial construction seems to be at the leading edge of the recovery here.
The one caveat I would say is Asia outside of China has not been so great.
India has been down Japan Korea Australia.
So that may be the dampener on the growth story in the fourth quarter but we still expect solid orders growth.
Same with CCS again Transicold had a huge quarter.
The orders were up 70% in the quarter at Transicold.
But again that was off of a very easy compare.
Compares will get more difficult but we had good momentum going into the fourth quarter.
Thanks.
I will get back in queue.
Thanks David.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just a couple of quick ones.
First on the commercial the spares piece I wonder if you might provide a little bit more color around that growth rate and what you saw in the Vs versus PW4000s and some of the other engines? Sure.
Carter what we saw as growth in the PW4000s as well as the V2500 and that more than offset some declines in the PW2000 in both really sales and orders.
If you think about it I think on a legacy basis Carter legacy Pratt spares are up about 10% even the overall spares were up 17%.
So really good strength in the V.
Again its a young fleet we are starting to see [shaft] [ph] business pickup as we expected and a little bit of softness on the 2000.
But again legacy businesses is recovering.
Okay.
Great.
And on the military side you talked about fewer engine shipments.
Obviously the weakness at Sikorsky on the aftermarket side but when you kind of look around against some of your peers the size of the weakness at Sikorsky certainly stands out as anomalous at least from what we can see so far today.
So are there any other elements of weaker military spending that aren't captured in those two and with respect what you're seeing at Sikorsky what do you think is making that standout so much more versus what were seeing you know elsewhere across defense space?  I guess there is a couple of pieces here to look at.
I mean military aero was down across all three of the aerospace businesses.
Weve seen in Pratt again we stopped the 119 deliveries last year so we got some headwind from F119s the F117 that goes on the C-17 thats going down and JSF is really ramping very very slowly.
So thats not a great story although the aftermarket there is okay.
At UTAS we actually saw a reduction in military that surprised us a little bit and this is not sequestration so much as just some of the government agencies just curtailing and cutting back on some of their spending and our sensors business which was most impacted.
And then we go to Sikorsky.
Sikorsky is a -- there is a couple of things there obviously the aftermarket that we're seeing orders down 15% for the year which was completely unexpected and we expected it to be down but not by 15%.
And then you've got again just the reduction of the quantities for the multi-year 8 versus multi-year 7 and the timing of some of the international military which is also getting pushed out of this year and into next.
So it's been almost a perfect storm at Sikorsky this quarter.
And as a result they are going to be down at the high-end of their earnings range down about a $150 million for the year earnings.
As far as the Sikorsky spares go I mean on the aftermarket side how much visibility -- how far out does that visibility go in terms of -- as you think about the impact on next year and how that rolls through how much longer could this persist or are you just assuming that we get down to this level and stay there any color would be great.
Yes so a couple of thoughts there I think part of this again the bigger ramp that we've seen over the last five years in military spares at Sikorsky was really funded by the overseas contingency spending or funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
And that is coming down and we expected that to come down.
The rest of the military spares piece I would say that was just we didnt see the bump in the third quarter that we had expected typically at the end of the fiscal year for the government.
We see a large influx of orders as everybody tries to spend their budget we didnt see that this year because of the uncertainty I would say around military budgets and what was going to happen in the last quarter of the year.
So I would say we should have about 50% of next year booked and we dont have much visibility into next year as we sit here today.
I think that the good news for Sikorsky is that the commercial businesses is taking off it's been very very well ramping up production the aftermarket is picking up but of unfortunately it's 20% of the business versus the [18%] [ph] which is military so Sikorsky is going to have a tough year next year.
I think thats the long and short of it; its not unexpected given the next step down in sequestration which I think takes another $12 billion out of defense spending starting in January.
So it's a tough couple of years for Sikorsky.
Great Thanks for the color Greg.
Thank you.
You next question is from Nigel Coe of Morgan Stanley youre line is open.
Yes thanks good morning.
So just looking at the 2014 framework obviously there is no changes since we published in Monterey.
Just looking at the question column and youve got [subsidy price] [ph] commodities in there and no surprises in there but based on the ramp down in copper hedge price for 2014 and Ive seen that the price remains pretty solid what do you expect in terms of tailwind for next year at current levels?  There should be some modest tailwind from copper going into next year copper has come down but I think it's still trading around $3.50 or so a pound also weve taken down the amount of coppers as weve talked about it.
We had a visit across all of the CCS I think 7 years ago there is a 120 million pounds were down to 50 million or 60 million pound.
So well copper is an important element of the cost structure it's not as big as it used to be.
Were also seeing a little bit of headwind on steel which is going to impact both Otis as well as the CCS but now it's kind of early.
I think generally speaking I would hope that that commoditys pricing is going to move over into the positives as we get towards the end of the year when Louis stands up and gives guidance but we have to wait and see how those last quarter plays out.
Okay.
And if we could say anything about the pricing side of the equation it sounds like spares pricing is still pretty good [inaudible] pricing looks very solid Otis seems quite negative.
I'm just wondering if we look at the backlog build that we see in Otis what kind of margins do you see in that backlog? The margin in backlog has actually started to improve a little bit in North America again weve got some new products out there.
We have been able to get a little bit of pricing but again not big numbers that we are talking about.
And in China we continue to see pricing pressure at Otis on new equipment not a surprise.
Again I think the beauty of Otis is they continue to be able to reduce cost of the factory to offset this pricing pressure and still deliver significant margin on new equipment as a result of the scale of the factories and the relentless focus on cost reduction.
Okay.
And just a quick one on fab margins obviously very impressive there youve run through some of the factors.
But the deconsolidation or rather the sale of Rocketdyne Power Systems did they have a positive impact on mix? Power Systems maybe a little bit there Nigel but again by and large what we saw on that 290 was really the benefit from the aftermarket mix with the spare parts as well as the restructuring benefit.
Yeah.
Keep in mind when we took Rocketdyne out we restated the numbers for last year and this year.
So the year-over-year doesnt really have any impact on those discontinued ops.
Okay.
Good point.
Yeah.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just back to Otis Greg just speaking about the South Carolina factory disruption? Can you quantify how much of that kind of played into the Q3 margins and as you look into Q4 obviously the guide kind of speaks for itself? Do you think that fully encompasses the kind of correcting issues and you have that behind you by the end of the year? Its not going to be completely behind us Jeff by the end of the year.
I would tell you in the quarter the impact was less than $15 million lets call the penny a share from the disruption at Florence.
At the same time I think they are making good progress.
They took overdue from 1 000 units at the end of the second quarter down to about 350 million -- 350 units rather at the end of Q3.
Hope they get the overdue all out of the door by the end of the year.
But some of the root cause issues some of the systems issues and some of the other factory issues that we have seen today are still going to take some time to work through.
Having said that I think what we are not going to see is a repeat next year all of the additional costs.
We kept in the Gallos plant open for additional six months or so this year.
Thats close as of the end of September.
So thats going to be tailwind for next year.
I think the strategy is going to work.
We want to have all of the CLC all the engineering all the manufacturing all the procurement all at one place down in Florence.
The work force is coming up to speed.
Its getting better.
Its just going to take some time.
But I dont think we are going to see a full run rate savings that we had expected until probably towards the end of next year there.
So we should have a non-repeat of at least kind of $50 million of costs? Yes.
I think thats probably the best way to think.
We probably wont see big year-over-year savings ex that $50 million of costs that wont repeat.
This  thats pretty significantly at Otis.
I just wondered on CapEx also in aggregate.
I dont think you said 1.6 to 1.7 before I think it was 1.7.
Not to split hairs but are you finding ways to kind of bend the curve a little a bit on that CapEx bubble and what do you think about next year? Yes.
So year-to-date we spent a little over $1 billion on CapEx.
So I think we spent $383 million in the quarter thats up $65 million.
We are trying to as you say bend over that curve.
I think we are trying to keep that number closer to 1.6 and 1.7 a 75% of that spend is at the Aero units and really goes to the ramp up that we are going to see in production.
We have got the 5 GTF engines.
We have the big ramp up of UTAS and the consolidation of the Goodrich Hamilton businesses.
So there is pressure on CapEx.
So I think next year it will probably be the peak year which could even be up from what we are seeing this year.
So we are doing we can to try and push this capital under the supply chain.
We are looking at partners for much of this work.
We are doing a lot of things I think to try and address this.
But the bottom line is there is a lot of CapEx coming in the fourth quarter of this year you will see even more next year.
And then finally can you just give us a little more color on the European building-related businesses both Otis and CC.
I think Jay said field weakness in the Fire and Security organization but equipment orders I guess were better at Otis.
Just a little more color on the lay of the land there and how things are playing? Sure Jeff.
Let me -- Ill go through sales and Ill do orders.
At CCS commercial HVAC was down low single digits Fire and Security was down low single digits and the products were down slightly and the field was down low single digits.
Commercial refrigeration was up slightly.
Switching over to orders at CCS commercial HVAC was up mid-teens and commercial refrigeration was up low single digits.
As far as Otis as we said sales were actually up in the quarter low single digits and orders were down high single digits but for that big order last year.
And again as both Greg and I mentioned excluding these big one-time orders it would have been up 12%.
If you think about it it really -- I mean it looks as if we are positioning for improvement here as we go into the fourth quarter then to next year as we deliver on this.
So its been a tough year but we do see signs of stabilization its not getting worse.
CCS I think we were down 2% a quarter but again the orders would indicate that there should be recovery here in Europe although were not going to count on a whole lot as we go into next year.
At least we dont think its going to get worse.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
The next question is from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
The line is open.
Thank you very much.
More on housekeeping side of things for a moment.
Greg first R&amp;D for the year continues to trend up.
How do you see that flowing out from here? I mean you talk about a lot of work on GTF and we think you are getting closer to a peak on that? The GTF actually did peak.
I think what you saw at Pratt was that E&amp;D was actually flat in the quarter.
We were down $50 million year-to-date.
You are going to see a further reduction in the fourth quarter at Pratt as engines get certified and we complete much of the testing.
A whole growth in third quarter E&amp;D was at the legacy Goodrich.
Its just the fact that we had Goodrich it was up $40 million year-over-year so I think we are right on the plan that we had expected.
In fact Pratt we had said down 75 probably closer to down 100 which will help fourth quarter margins.
I have never gotten a tax rate right this year Me either.
But you find things that sort of help matters.
So how do you think about a normalized tax rate? I mean I recognize that some of that will be a function of repatriation and every other credit one can find.
Yes.
I think there is a normalized rate with the tax law as it stands today.
I will be very specific there.
It should be around 29%.
The fear of course is the tax law changes next year and when we lose some of the benefits from the tax extenders like the R&amp;D tax credit and the CFC look through rules and everyone wants to put upward pressure between a point and a point and a half on the race.
So if you think about next year and we are keeping probably a 30.5% tax rate unless by some miracle the folks in Washington to get those tax extenders passed.
But I think thats unlikely that anything is going to happen down there this year yet.
And then finally you talk about restructuring I think you said $150 million in the final quarter of the year.
Can you sort of can you outline a bit where you plan to target it and how are you anticipating capturing some gains? But there is obviously a few things out there in terms of the gains.
There is probably a little bit on the tax side.
We will probably get another couple of one-time items there that will help fund some of these restructuring.
But Im not counting on it.
The fact is most of the restructuring in Q4 is actually going to go to Pratt as they are again preparing for the ramp up but at the same time they are trying to adjust their cost structure to the reality of today.
UTAS I think again you are going to see further synergy plays there with headcount and further restructuring and the same at Otis and CCS.
So theres again that $150 million is pretty well spread across the businesses.
Sikorsky is going to be teeing some things up too I think.
And maybe that number probably wants to go up and if it doesnt go up in the fourth quarter it will go up in the first quarter.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
And your next question is from Julian Mitch of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks a lot.
Yeah I was just curious about the extent of the expansion in your gross margin.
That was sort of flat to down in the first half up almost 190 bps year-on-year in Q3.
You mentioned lower commodity cost in CC&amp;S helping.
I just wondered if there was anything exceptional in that gross margin in terms of input costs or mix or it really does reflect kind of the benefits of restructuring and is something that should be sustainable.
So there is a couple of pieces there Julian.
I think again one of the biggest pieces is the absence of the inventory step-up amortization.
Last year it was I think $100 million.
$150 million.
$150 million in the third quarter and again in the fourth quarter.
So that really helped the UTAS margins improve.
As far as Pratt the big improvement in gross margin was really the recovery in the commercial aftermarket as well as the restructuring savings from all the actions that we took in the first nine months of the year.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then on just following up on R&amp;D.
You didnt put in your sort of outlook for next year.
Is the assumption then that it will just track in line with the sales development because youve still got lot of legacy Goodrich stuff to catch up on? No.
I think theres -- if anything E&amp;D should start to trend down especially on the aero side here.
We are completing the 787-9.
We are completing the GTF engines.
Again Im not talking about a huge step-down but it should generally trend down over the next couple of years which should be helpful.
Again there is not a lot of newer platforms but we do have to complete all the work thats out there from the Embraer aircraft the CSeries and the neo.
So there is lot of work to do but I think its generally going to trend down slightly.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then lastly just within Otis so I think your EMEA services revenues were down sort of low single-digit in Q2s but that was still running at the same trend here in the second half.
Yeah.
It was down slightly in EMEA in this third quarter.
Yeah I think the pressure there is not surprising.
Spain is down Italy is down but we are seeing good traction.
I think France is up a little bit.
Germany is up a little bit.
So its really the same story that weve been talking about for the last year and a half.
Southern Europe continues to be a headwind although much much less so than in the past 18 months.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
The first one is clarification just on the CMH.
So eight deliveries are baked into that dime headwind is in the numbers for the fourth quarter at this point? So to be clear the eight aircraft we have assumed that we are going to shift those in the fourth quarter.
But year-over-year its actually tailwind Myles because you recall last year we took $157 million charge.
Those eight aircraft would go out with negative margin around the $120 million.
So there is actually tailwind in Sikorsky numbers in the fourth quarter from CMH strange as it seems.
So I was just thinking -- I was just saying versus your underlying EBIT guidance down to $150 million? Yes.
Thats in there later perhaps.
Okay.
Great.
And then Greg can you talk about the other operating cash flow line item? I think that $350 million negative swing this year and I think -- and some of its the fleet management some of its the total revenue going the opposite direction.
But can you talk about the trend for the rest of the year and also into 2014? Yes.
I think you saw a little bit of anomaly here in the third quarter.
What we saw is some higher costs in some of the fleet management programs as you noted there at Pratt &amp; Whitney where again we are incurring cost upfront to get these engines up to kind of rebuild to a pristine condition before they go back in the field.
So those costs go on the balance sheet it goes out of the cash flows.
There was a couple other minor things in there Jay.
Yes.
We just had some increases in long-term receivables particularly again in the aero businesses.
And then just again some payments in terms of -- on some of the longer-term reserves like a restructuring-type reserves where we are liquidating those reserves to other payments.
Nothing I would say is structurally different going into the rest of the year or even to next year that I would have been that concerned about.
Okay.
So into 14 that become more of a historical trend? Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question is from Joe Nadol of J.P.
Morgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning Greg and Jay.
Good morning.
On UTAS so your EBIT was -- adjusted EBIT was down a hair sequentially.
And just thinking about this we should have over time.
Sequentially we should be thinking about aftermarket getting I think a bit better.
And we should be thinking about synergies from Goodrich getting better.
So was defense the negative sequentially? And if so could you help quantify that a little bit?  Yeah.
There was actually a couple of pieces of headwind there.
And I think you hit on the biggest piece which was defense and that again both at the legacy Hamilton business as well as theres Goodrich in the sensors business.
We saw a headwind there.
And we also saw additional headwind as sales picked up on 787.
There is still negative margin there.
We also booked some loss reserves associated with the CSeries aircraft which again is a very long-term program.
But as you first start up you are high on the learning curve so theres a little bit of loss associated there and I think that gets better over the next couple of years and those are really the three biggest pieces if you will.
Okay.
So as we think going forward into Q4 I mean your guidance implies kind of flattish EBIT again.
But as we think about that going into next year how do you think about those various pieces? Particularly are you worried more that Goodrich defense business was just a homerun for them in the last couple of years of their independence.
Is that somewhere where we could expect or fear more downside? Well again the sensors business is not really the DoD business.
Its a U.S.
government business so were not selling as much as you might think to DoD although there is some there.
But they are clearly going to be a little bit of headwind but this is not a huge huge number for us next year.
And I think again we come down to learning curve on the 787 next year so thats going to improve.
Well come down to learning curve on the CSeries.
Sequestration will be an impact at UTAS bigger impact in the next year at Sikorsky.
But yeah I think its all kind of captured in there.
We talked about $0.12 headwind from sequestration and probably a third of thats going to be the UTAS and two thirds will be at Sikorsky.
Okay.
And then just one more.
I think you tweaked down your cash flow guidance from better than or equal or better than to earnings to just essentially in line with.
What were the changes there?  Again I think weve always said we target cash -- free cash flow net income and I didnt mean to imply that there was anything significantly different.
As we get towards the end of the year we clearly have line of sight to free cash flow or equal to net income.
I think were 91% year-to-date.
Our fourth quarter is typically big from a cash flow standpoint.
So I can guarantee you one thing it wont be exactly 100%.
It might be a little lower.
It might be a tiny bit less but were targeting in the range of net income so no surprise there.
I think again were on track to deliver and the same thing with the guidance here.
We tightened the guidance range to that nickel.
We see a path to the high end but I dont see a path above the high end.
So as you guys think about the year were thinking about cash flow will equal to net income at $6.15 and what were really focused on right now is 2014.
Right.
I mean your guidance did change from October 1 to today in terms of whats in your slides.
So I guess thats -- its just based on where you were.
Yeah.
Its just based on the reality.
As we get towards the end of the year we will be a little over net income maybe but were not going to be at 115% of net income and I didnt want to imply thats why we really tweaked the guidance to say its going to be essentially equal to net income.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks Joe.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Shannon OCallaghan of Nomura.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Hey Shannon.
Hey Greg as you looked into this military aerospace weakness I mean have you been able to sort of get a feel for how much of this could be inventory reductions and when those might sort of play themselves out?  And again I think what were really seeing is just a reluctance on the military services to spend on spares alone.
Whats most impacting I think is fleet readiness.
Weve seen the BLACK HAWK readiness declined significantly because theyre not working the hours theyre not doing the repairs.
And right now it seems to be comfortable that they can take down fleet readiness.
But that trend cannot go on forever.
I think we would expect to see a recovery from kind of more normal aftermarket levels across all of the defense businesses next year once we get this thing with sequestration sorted out.
Okay.
Okay.
And then just maybe a little more color on Europe in terms of the commercial businesses.
I mean Otis and commercial HVAC are seeing these better European orders.
What do you make of those? Are those or are you seeing sort of a material swing go on there? Or what color do you have around what youve seen drive it? Lets be careful there Shannon.
I think again we are seeing a recovery but we are still well below peak rates that we saw in 2006 2007.
So orders are coming back.
Theyre off of really really low levels.
So recovery is coming.
Its very slow and I am not expecting it.
Orders are good.
They are good in Northern Europe primarily but theres still a lot of uncertainty in Europe.
So were going to be cautious.
But again I think its all trending positively.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Shannon.
Thank you.
Our next question is from George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi George.
Greg if I look at Pratt you had big drops sequentially and even year-over-year in the large commercial deliveries.
I mean what was going on there? You had a strong second quarter but what was actually happening in the third to be that low? George that really just normalized.
I think you would expect -- in the fourth quarter we expect that number to probably jump a little bit to the 150 range in that ballpark and the second quarter was just a high quarter.
Okay.
And then the 14.4% margin I mean obviously got helped by the lower deliveries and the higher aftermarket.
Was there anything else in there or is that kind of a sustainable kind of new level margin for a while now? Well no again to the earlier point commercial OEM is going to go back up in the fourth quarter.
The other piece you are missing is the restructuring thing.
Pratt has taken out close to a 1 000 people this year in the first nine months and most of that came second quarter.
So you are going to see that benefit continue.
And again spares should be better so that will help.
But you get little bit of an offset as commercial OE picks back up in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
George thanks.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Deane Dray of Citi Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Deane.
Hey.
On Fire &amp; Security could you just give us an update in terms of traction in the quarter? What it means on non-resi side and any developments on the portfolio rationalization? It sounded like there were still some divestitures that could potentially be done on businesses you couldnt scale.
Okay.
What I will do -- I can give you some data points just on Fire &amp; Security globally.
The products were up low single-digits in sales and orders were up mid single-digits.
On the field businesses those were down high single-digits in both sales and orders in the quarter.
So thats pretty much what we saw on Fire &amp; Security globally.
Yeah.
I think this is not a new trend here.
Again some of the field business again we have been mostly deemphasizing but weve been somewhat more selective as Geraud said about not taking some of these installations which is just installing pipes if you will for sprinkler systems or trying to -- by higher margin higher value add that can pull some of our product along so making good investment on the product side and were seeing that traction in orders.
But the service side continues to be a drag especially in Europe.
Great.
And I might have missed this.
But on the Canadian Maritime are you -- have you made progress in the renegotiation of the contract any closer to that resolution? Im going to be very cautious here atypical of me.
But I would say that were making progress although its slow.
And I think again we havent really started formal contract negotiations.
Good news is the aircraft are up in the Shearwater.
They are flying.
Were getting traction with the customer.
I think everybody recognizes they want to find solution here both at the Sikorsky and at the Canadian government level.
So were making progress.
Its a great helicopter.
And we were just down at West Palm Beach the other day I was talking to the test pilot.
Its a phenomenal aircraft but its just going to take a little bit of time.
So I hope when Louis stands up in December that well have some really good news to report.
Great.
Thank you.
Okay.
So thanks everyone for listening today.
As I just said we look forward to seeing you all at our Annual Investor and Analyst Meeting on December 12th in New York.
Well do the same.
Last year well be giving guidance on 2014 and look forward to seeing you all there.
Thanks very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in todays conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jay Malave Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTCs website at www.utc.com.
Please note the Company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and one-time items as they usually do.
The Company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTCs SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to two questions per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself into the queue and we will answer as time permit.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everyone.
As you saw in the press release UTC reported 2013 earnings per share of $6.21.
Our integration of the transformational deals and solid execution drove 16% earnings growth despite a slower than expected recovery in our end markets.
For the full year of Goodrich UTC Aerospace Systems generated over $2.1 billion of operating profit.
The addition of IAE or International Aero Engines along with aggressive cost reduction helped Pratt &amp; Whitney grow earnings by a $177 million and Climate Controls and Security also delivered a strong 2013 with 9% earnings growth and 15.7% operating margins.
Even with the investments were making for the ramp in aero we delivered strong free cash flow at a 102% of net income for the year.
Gross sales for the year were $63 billion thats up 1% organically and as you see on Slide 2 strong momentum as we exit the year.
Organic sales were up 4% in the fourth quarter after being flat through the first three quarters.
In the commercial businesses we saw 7% growth on the Americas driven by a continued U.S economic recovery.
Europe was flat and Asia grew about 4% with ongoing strength in China where sales were up 9% more than offsetting weaknesses in the other Asian countries.
In aerospace continued weakness in defense was more than offset by a very strong growth in our commercial OE and aftermarket where overall sales increased 14%.
So its an accelerating top line to go along with improving economic environments.
In the U.S.
consumer sentiment and spending continue to improve on strength in the equity and housing markets.
Europe is also seeing moderate improvement with the PMI expanding for six consecutive months and return to modest economic growth.
And in China construction starts and property transactions were strong for the year giving rise to solid backlogs across our commercial businesses.
Okay Slide 3.
In addition to the accelerated organic sales growth and an improving economic outlook continued strength in orders decision us well as we enter 2014.
At Otis new equipment orders were up 8% with broad based strength around the world and the Controls and Securities global equipment orders grew 5% with double-digit growth in the Americas.
In the aerospace business commercial spare orders were up 20% in Pratt &amp; Whitney and 19% at UTC Aerospace Systems.
Okay taking a look at fourth quarter earnings on Slide 4 now.
As always a few puts and takes as we close out the year.
Earnings per share of $1.58 included a $0.11 of restructuring charges partially offset by $0.02 of gains from tax settlements and the ongoing portfolio transformation CCS.
earnings per share increased 29% versus prior years and that was driven by a few different items.
First of all very strong performance at CCS and Pratt &amp; Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems which all delivered profits in excess of our guidance to you.
We also had the absence of a $100 million of inventory step-up cost that we recorded in the fourth quarter of last year related to the Goodrich acquisition.
We also saw a lower tax rate this quarter.
It was $0.06 better than last year and $0.04 better than what we had expected back in December.
And of course lower Canadian Maritime helicopter program charges this year.
On Sikorsky operating profit grew 10% including the absence of the 2012 charge related to the CMHP.
Sikorsky shipped 77 large helicopters in the quarter and 240 for the year with 100% on time delivery to the U.S government.
As we said in the press release we did not recognize revenue on any of the CMHP helicopters in 2013 resulting in a net $0.06 benefit versus our expectations.
Thats $0.08 from the lack of deliveries partially offset by a $0.02 charge for cost growth associated with the delay.
As we reported in the press Sikorsky concluded a principles of agreement with the government of Canada on December 31.
This is a positive step towards replacing the aging Sea King fleet.
Preliminary pilot training is ongoing in Shearwater Canada and it will be completed as planned this month which will allow for the start of operational testing by the Canadian forces shortly thereafter.
The $89 million of liquidated damages associated with late deliveries were fully reserved in prior years.
We continue to work with the Canadian government on a final contract amendment and were going to maintain our place holder of eight aircraft for 2014.
Okay enough on Sikorsky.
Lets go back to the fourth quarter.
All sales increased 2% and as I mentioned there was 4% organic growth which is offset by two points of headwind from ongoing divestitures at CCS as well as Pratt &amp; Whitneys Power Systems business which was divested earlier in the year.
Free cash flow of 136% of net income in the quarter and we paid down an additional $1 billion of debt.
Its important to note in the last 18 months weve now paid out approximately half of the debt associated with the Goodrich acquisition.
We also bought back an additional 200 million of shares in the quarter which brought us to a $1.2 billion total for the year.
We remain confident in our growth outlook and we announced a dividend increase of 10.3% in October.
The businesses continue to reduce their cost structure in 2013 and identified solid payback restructuring projects totaling almost $500 million for the year.
Restructuring was offset by one-time gains and spread across the business units.
Pratt &amp; Whitney led the way with over $150 million of restructuring.
UTC Aerospace Systems CCS and Otis each spent close to $100 million.
And we continue to see pull from the businesses for additional restructuring as we entered 2014.
So strong close to what was a good year at UTC.
I will be back to talk about 2014 in a few minutes but first let me turn it over to Jay to take you through the segment results.
Jay? Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 5 Otis sales improved 4% organically in the quarter with new equipment sales up 10% including double-digit growth in China and the Americas and modest growth in service.
Operating profit was flat to constant currency with profit growth in Asia led by China is largely offset by continued factory transition costs in North America.
Profit in Europe is stabilizing.
New equipment order growth remains robust up 8% to constant currency with mid teens growth in China and the Americas and strength in the Middle East.
New equipment backlog ended the year up double digit versus the prior year.
For the full year operating profit was flat at 4% higher sales.
On Slide 6; climate controls and security increased profits 12% in the quarter and a 1% increase in sales resulting in another sharp increase in margins of 150 basis points from prior year of 15.2%.
Organic sales continue to steadily improve and were up 4% in the quarter.
The geographic mix was consistent with recent trends.
Europe was flat China was up high single digit while Asia overall was flat though mainly by a decline in Australia.
Americas was up mid single digit driven by 18% growth in the residential HVAC business.
Transicold was up 22% with solid growth in Eastern European truck and trailer business and a robust recovery in the container market after a weak quarter last year.
Profit growth in the quarter was driven by strong conversion on organic sales restructuring savings and net productivity which more than offset headwind from divested earnings.
Orders for global commercial HVAC equipment were up low single digit in the quarter.
Orders for global fire and security products were up 10% although that was largely offset by a decline in the fire and security field businesses.
Global commercial refrigeration orders were flattish while Transicold was down mid single digit following a 70% increase in the third quarter.
For the full year CCS grew earnings by 221 million or 9% and a 1% organic sales increase.
Operating margin of 15.7% was up 160 basis points from the prior year and comfortably above the 50% margin target set for 2015.
Turning to aerospace on Slide 7 Pratt &amp; Whitney delivered strong results with 23% profit growth and 5% higher sales resulting in margin expansion of 170 basis points.
Organically sales were up 14% reflecting growth across the businesses led by high teens growth in the large commercial engine business where aftermarket was up over 20%.
The military engine business was up low double digits driven by a higher JSF program sales while Pratt &amp; Whitney Canada was up mid single digits.
On a reported basis sales were up 5% as the organic sales growth was partially offset by the power systems business divestiture.
Profit growth in the quarter was driven by the benefits from higher organic sales and restructuring savings as well as lower E&amp;D which more than offset headwinds and adverse large commercial OE mix power systems divestiture and higher pension costs.
For the year Pratt &amp; Whitney delivered profit growth of 177 million exceeding its prior expectation of 150 million based on a seamless integration of IAE solid execution of cost reduction and restructuring and improvement in the commercial aftermarket.
On Slide 8 UTC Aerospace Systems delivered a strongest quarter of the year with operating profit of 544 million and sales of 3.5 billion.
Sales were up high single digit with commercial aftermarket up high teens and commercial OEM up 10%.
Overall military sales were flat to the prior year with mid single digit growth in military aftermarket offset by a low single digit decline in military OEM.
Year-on-year profit growth was driven by the absence of last year's inventory step-up costs higher aftermarket volume and continued synergy traction.
As Greg mentioned orders for commercial spares grew 19% on a year-over-year basis.
UTC Aerospace Systems delivered strong results in its first full year with operating profit slightly above to 2.1 billion and integration remains on track towards delivering solid growth in 2014 and beyond.
Turning to Sikorsky on Slide 9 operating profit increased 10% and 13% lower sales.
The sales decline was driven by lower international military OEM the military aftermarket volumes which were partially offset by higher commercial shipments.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 77 aircraft including 58 based on military platforms and 19 commercial.
On profit; lower overall sales volumes the unfavorable mix of aircraft and headwind from higher pension and compliance costs were more than offset by lower year-over-year CMHP charges.
During the quarter Sikorsky delivered its first fully configured S-76D aircraft into service.
Customer interest in the S-76D is strong with backlog in access of 600 million.
For the full year Sikorsky delivered 240 aircraft.
Operating profit of 644 million was down 16% and 8% lower sales.
Based on 2013 results we are updating our 2014 expectations to flattish operating profit and high single digit sales growth.
With that let me turn it over to Greg for wrap up.
Okay.
Thanks Jay.
So a good year for UTC.
In aggregate the business units delivered solid margin expansions of 15.7% and EPS grew 16% despite a slower than expected global economic recovery.
On top of the solid financial results we continue to achieve significant milestones on development programs and security wins for the future.
At Pratt 31 GTF engines have now completed more than 7 000 hours and 16 000 cycles of full engine testing including 750 hours of flight time.
The C Series engine achieved certification in February of 2013 and successfully powered the maiden flight of the C Series aircraft this past September.
The A320neo engine is on track for certification at the back half of 2014 and our customers recognize the value of the GTF and have now ordered over 5 000 engines including options.
We also quickly realized the benefits of the Goodrich acquisition.
In our Propulsion &amp; Aerospace Systems organizational structure in 2013 when Embraer selected UTC to derive a fully integrated propulsion system that is the engine and the cell and the controls along with the electric system and wheels and brakes for its second-generation E-Jets.
These combined wins highlight our ability to leverage our technology across our aerospace businesses to win more content on new aircraft while providing greater customer value with more integrated systems.
Sikorsky continues to see strong civil demand from deepwater oil and gas exploration around the world and has a total commercial backload now of nearly $3 billion.
And the investment in X2 Technology has paved the way for our agreement with Boeing to co-develop a demonstrator for the next generation of multi-role helicopters.
New three and four-year labor contracts were also ratified by the union membership at Pratt &amp; Whitney and Sikorsky respectively and these agreements had a good result for both the company and our employees.
On the commercial side of the business climate controls and security continued to see successful leveraging in combination of our carrier and fire and security businesses and delivered a record 15.7% operating margin.
Going forward we'll leverage the combined capability of CCS and Otis in the new building and industrial systems organization to accelerate top line growth.
Otis had several key wins in 2013 including the Tianjin 117 and the Abu Dhabi Airport.
Worldwide Otis new equipment orders were up 14% from 2013 including 22% growth in China.
It's a good momentum that will allow us to deliver solid growth in 2014 and really no changes to the expectations that we laid out in December.
The solid organic growth in backlog exiting the year gives us confidence in our sales assumption of 3% to 4% organic growth in 2014 and we expect continued recovery in our North American markets slight growth in Europe and solid growth in China.
Okay looking at the DoD budget the developments in Washington are encouraging but it's still a little early to determine the impact on our businesses for 2014.
We're still planning for a 3% to 5% decline on our U.S.
government aerospace sales which we mentioned in December but that will be more than offset by strong growth in our commercial aerospace businesses.
Overall we continue to respect total sales of around $64 billion this year including almost $1 billion of headwind from divestitures.
As always we remain relentlessly focused on cost reduction on leveraging our global scale.
Last year we invested nearly $500 million in restructuring and for this year we expect about 300 million all offset by one-time gains.
Restructuring spending in 2014 should be evenly distributed across the quarter so expect about $75 million of restructuring charges each quarter while the gains are probably going to some in the middle of the year.
Strong operating leverage across the business should allow us to deliver earnings of 655 to 685 this year.
We remain confident in that guidance range with earnings growth accelerating during the year.
Specifically in the first quarter we had about $0.22 of headwind year-over-year.
We recall that last year's first quarter had $0.11 of net gains while this year we expect $0.06 of net restructuring.
We also had about $0.05 of good news at Pratt &amp; Whitney last year which is not going to repeat in this years first quarter.
So wrapping up with cash flow we expect to invest about $2 billion in CapEx this year after investing $1.7 billion in 2013 and that $2 billion should be the peak.
The timing of course will be dictated by program schedules.
These are critical investments for our commercial aerospace business as we prepare for an unprecedented ramp in production.
And while these investments of the non-cash pension tailwind creates some pressure on cash flow we continue to target free cash flow equal to net income for the year.
So in conclusion solid year for UTC and the momentum we have actually in the year gives us confidence in 2014.
We got the right strategy and the right portfolio in both the developing growth markets along with an organizational structure and experienced management team that will capitalize on the continued global economic recovery and deliver sustainable earnings growth both in 2014 and into the future.
So with that Stephanie lets open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Carter.
Good morning.
Just I wondered if you could give us a little bit more granularity on the commercial aftermarket order numbers and kind of parse that out maybe at Pratt what youre seeing on the large commercial side for the PW4000s versus the Vs; any differences in the trends there.
And then broadly speaking maybe UTAS differences in military versus commercial and the outlook there? Sure.
Thats all pretty good news as you would expect on the commercial side.
And spares orders were up at Pratt about 20% beside a UTAS or Aerospace just improved 19%.
But I think what was most encouraging for us is what we saw on the services side.
This is in our shops around the world where we saw sales up over 40% in the quarter and we then finally started to see the airline switch from these light overhauls weve been talking about for the last couple of years to more heavy overhauls and that really drove the tremendous amount of volume in the shops and then drove the order rates as well.
So airlines are making money and things look pretty good that we saw the delinquency and the receivables down because the airlines are making money.
We saw spares we saw heavy overhauls.
It was all pretty good on the commercial side of the business.
As far as the split Jay in terms of the Vs and the Sure the -- Carter the V2500 was up high single-digits in the quarter PW4000 was up high teens and the PW2000 was very very strong and there was an order there for delivery in 2014 but our models did pretty well in the quarter.
On the aerospace system side the provisioning was strong in the quarter and again that was narrow body growth as well as some 787 provisioning.
Again as Greg mentioned were seeing these higher or stronger overhauls heavy overhauls with profitability getting better traffic continuing to grow cycles in the hours with air sort of trends all the fundamentals as weve been saying all along really weve seen that in the quarter.
And what about on the Sikorsky side in terms of the orders there I mean obviously the spares were off a lot the orders were off a lot.
Have you seen any reversal in that trend? We saw just on the sales military aftermarket was a little bit better it was down low teens.
However that was on an easier compare.
Last year military was down high single digits in the after market.
So not all that much better.
Yeah I mean I would just tell you we think weve kind of bottomed out from the impacts of sequestration at Sikorsky in terms of the aftermarket.
As you guys have that weve all seen it looks like the defense budget for 14 will be the same as it was for 13 when they restore that $20 billion of cut.
So we don't expect much further deterioration at Sikorsky in terms of the order rates but clearly the backlog is going to be down going into 14 which is why we think military spares or sales will be down again about 3% to 5%.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Carter.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Sam.
Can you share a little bit more about the Canadian helicopter in terms of this potential agreement? You said youre still going to assume eight deliveries this year; is this going to give you any ability to treat the production and service differently and maybe be able to write off any of the production cost.
Anything else you can share along the lines of that agreement? Yeah I think -- again as POA or this principles of agreement that was signed on December 31 really is a milestone for us.
I think we had a path forward with the customer to deliver aircraft now.
We got a lot of the bad news behind us I think on the program.
We werent able to revenue recognize any of the helicopters but again I think as we go forward weve got a clear path this year to revenue recognize eight the contract or the amendment should be finalized by the 31<sup>st</sup> of March and hopefully by the time we stand up in front of investors in March well have some more details in terms of that contract amendment.
But right now it looks like weve got the ability to deliver out through 18.
Our goal is to get those things delivered all by 2016.
So we think eight this year eight next year and eight the following year.
And I think importantly the customer recognizes the value of the aircraft.
There was talk in the Canadian press about termination of all that.
They need these helicopters; these are the best damn military helicopters out there.
So I think it's all very positive for Sikorsky.
As for the accounting while I wish we could get this behind us Sam I just -- I dont see a way based upon the structure of the contract that were negotiating today to do that.
So again I dont see any more bad news beyond that which weve expected today.
Were going to lose about $14 million of helicopter going forward.
So unfortunately I cant get that behind us.
If I had a way to do it I would but at least for right now well just assume thats the plan.
Okay and then the change in the segments for Sikorsky is not going to be flat in terms of the profit year-over-year instead of up 0 to 50.
It doesnt look like the other segments change so really where is the offset if the tax rate interest share count where do you offset that? If you look at -- it's just a change from where they ended Sam.
If you look at based on our guidance the absolute number for Sikorskys expectation is the same and so at our midpoint the bottom line number for Sikorsky is really the same number it was before.
It's just the change is different.
Okay and if I could squeeze one more in; Greg back at the third quarter call I think you talked about I thought a tax rate somewhere close to 29% that would seem like a little bit more than the few cents you mentioned in terms of the variants.
What was in this quarter that was different in terms of the tax rate? There was couple of different pieces in here.
There was a small settlement with the IRS which gave us a couple of pennies of benefit which we hadnt expected in the rate.
I think we call that out as part of the gains math.
And then we had a little bit better year end rate because of some planning that we had put in place earlier in the year.
I think the operational rate would have been about $28.6 million so we picked up about $40 million or $0.04 operationally because of the tax rate benefit in the quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Great thanks.
I had a couple of questions on Otis.
First of all looking at your China OE business there; based on the order backlog and the order trends you had through 2013 I guess is it fair to assume that your OE deliveries in China the growth rate should be pretty similar this year as what you had in 13? Yeah were expecting about 15% sales growth there this year based upon the backlog.
Great.
And then within the U.S.
part of Otis; do you still have a drag in the first half of the year from the factory relocation so thats mostly finished in Q4? No therell still be a little bit of a drag probably through the middle of the year.
I think we had on a little less than $20 million of headwind in Q4.
That will step down a little bit each in the next two quarters and I think the plan right now is by the third quarter that should be generating tailwind as opposed to headwind.
So a little bit of drag here in the first few quarters.
Got it.
And then lastly just within Pratt; youre getting close enough just starting to ship for commercial use the GTF any change in your thoughts on the kind of headwind within Pratt that youll see to earnings from that ramp up? Well I think it's the same thing we talked about in December.
We will be losing money especially on the early delivery.
So there will be a headwind from negative engine margin and thats going to accelerate as the ramp goes.
So youre going to see we got a little bit of headwind this year little more in 15 and then 16 17 some significant negative engine margin.
Obviously were working the product cost piece of that equation.
It's a great engine and this is a headwind that were going to have to deal with which offsets of course.
I think weve got E&amp;D should be coming down and youve got the rest of the business which we expect to recover.
The Vs of course as those go away so will the negative engine margin on the Vs which will help offset a little bit of this and the aftermarket should also continue to grow.
So it's headwinds but we know about it we're working it and we'll tell you more about it as we go through the year.
All right thanks.
Thanks Julian.
Our next question comes from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Doug.
On Otis you said that new equipment was up 10% but sales were only up 4%.
Can you talk about what came down? Is this repairs and modifications or contract services what happened there in the quarter? It really is just mix service revenue.
We're only up about 1%.
That's 60% of the business.
That's what got the overall sales only up 4%.
And then on Pratt the C Series Bombardier is now talking about this being delayed going into service until the back half of '15.
What's the impact of that on you all? Well it's good news in terms of we had talked about some negative engine margin and both that Pratt is the negative margin that you test for the year on deliveries that we're starting to ramp and it wasn't a big number.
But fortunately the good news associated with not shipping is it's mostly going to be offset by the fact that the program is going to be out there longer so the R&amp;D build is going to go up.
It was a small net benefit but not big.
And then just on the other side of that now that you're starting to see the F-35 growth beginning to kick in how do you see that going forward in terms of margins? I mean it's a good thing that you're seeing this grow but I would assume there should be some dilution on margin as it becomes bigger? Yes again those are  now I think we're in Lot 6.
Those were all firm fixed price at this point.
So as we go forward here I think and we will take cost out.
We're still coming down the learning curve pretty rapidly on that but it will be slightly dilutive to margin but not a huge impact really across Pratt.
The fact is the demand for these engines in these aircraft are much stronger internationally than we expected so we expect this ramp to be pretty strong over the next two years.
Okay very good.
Thank you.
Thanks Doug.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Morning Jeff.
Good morning.
I was wondering if we could just drill into Otis service a little bit the 1% growth kind of geographically where you're seeing pressure maybe just kind of what's going on in Europe in particular I guess and maybe that ties to your stabilization comment.
Yes.
I think again in the Americas we saw modest growth.
I think it was up about 4% service overall and Europe was down about 1%.
So the good news here is in China service is actually up 10%.
Again it's off of a low base.
The good news in Europe if you will is we have not seen the big continued deterioration that we had been seeing for the last couple of years so while it's not exactly stabilized since it's still down 1% at least there's some  there's some light at the end of the tunnel as the economy has improved.
I'll tell you this is probably the biggest focus of Geraud Darnis and the whole team at BIS organization today is making sure that the risk portfolio in Europe continues to returns to growth and profitable growth.
On China as you said it's a low base but is there a visible turn in your service capture in that business? Is that on a clear upward trajectory? It is going up.
I think again we're seeing  I think OCL the Otis China Limited brand where conversions are right around 60% on all of our direct sales overall still about 25%.
Obviously that's a big focus that we have going forward as we grow that business.
The new equipment business is wonderful today but we all know the ultimate price in China will be service and we're focused on it.
The whole team really is in China.
And then just finally from me and I'll move on pension how did that actually end? Did you pick up a little bit of cushion relative to your guide in the year relative to where discount rates ended? Yes we did.
It was  the discount rate I think when Louis stood up we had expected a 4.8% discount rate and I think that's exactly where it ended up for us.
But I think overall the plan was up about 10.8% in terms of performance for the year really solid performance.
Right now the U.S.
plan is about 98% funded on a PBO basis where we were short $4 billion three years ago today the shortfall is only about 500 million in the pension plan.
So we'll see probably about $100 million of additional good news on pension this year beyond that which Louis had talked about in December.
So it adds to that cushion that we talked about at the midpoint.
You're also getting a little bit of benefit on the currencies where I think we had forecast the euro at 1.33 for the year today it's 1.36-ish.
So you pick up three pennies there.
So we feel pretty good about the midpoint as compared to where we were just six weeks ago.
All right thank you.
Thanks Jeff.
Our next question comes from Cai von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks so much.
So the very very strong commercial spares orders and the MRO activity in the fourth quarter any sense whether that might have been driven by your relatively large price hike announcements for 2014? What are you seeing in terms of color in those areas in the early weeks of January? Well I might push back a little Cai on your characterization of unusually high price increases.
I think this is typical normal increases that we see almost every year.
I think what was important is we didn't see a lot of discounting in the fourth quarter this year.
We saw really solid order intake.
And was there a little bit of beat the price? There may have been but quite frankly that wasn't a big driver of the increase.
I think it really is just pent-up demand.
And again as we've talked about more heavy overhauls in the shop which drive a tremendous amount of spare parts.
Yes Cai remember the fourth quarter is typically the highest.
It's seasonally that beat the price activity occurs.
So the compares are pretty clean.
It's not like this year is much greater than last year.
Right.
And so was the activity flow over end of the first quarter so what you've seen in January looks about what it looked like last year in terms of percentage changes? Yes well book to bill is above 1 Cai so there will be  some of that flows over into the first quarter.
Yes the fundamentals haven't really changed.
I think the airlines are still flying these planes full.
They're still flying a lot of hours.
Some of this pent-up demand that we've been talking about is continuing to play out we expect here in the first half.
Obviously we're not going to get 20% aftermarket growth for the full year at Pratt this year.
We're thinking it's going to be Mid single digits in the Mid single digits.
So if we hit 20% things will be really good but it will slow down a little bit again as the compares get tougher in the back half of the year but I think so far so good.
Yes.
As I've said Cai there was one large order in PW2000 that was for delivery in 2014.
So the 20% was a little high related to that one order.
Got it.
And then we now know that the FY '14 DoD appropriation.
You're still looking for down 3 to 5 and then kind of when you take together the budget agreement plus the DoD is there any potential for favorable results relative to your expectation? Yes I think they are Cai.
But again most of that benefit is probably going to flow to next year.
But if you think about it the CRH the combat rescue helicopter was fully funded.
The VXX the Presidential was fully funded.
If we're fortunate and get awarded those two contracts you would expect to see some additional revenues this year not much on the bottom line obviously because they are developing contracts in the first couple of years but I would expect a bigger impact to be next year.
I think the good news on sequestration is at least everybody knows what it is now.
So we have a baseline.
So people aren't scrambling and moving money around in a dis-economic fashion.
I think the DoD has been building out a plan for next fiscal year.
It was a two-year budget deal.
And so we expect some stability and not as many surprises going into the year on the downside as we saw last year on the military.
Okay.
And last one you had mentioned in response to Doug's question that a little more E&amp;D as a result of the C Series but what are we looking for for E&amp;D now for the year? Cai we're still flattish.
It may go up  a little uptick from here but generally flattish is still the expectation.
And you're probably talking about $10 million of pressure on E&amp;D from the C Series delay at Pratt and that's a little bit smaller number at the Aerospace Systems business.
So we're not talking huge numbers here.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Cai.
Our next question comes from the Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
I might pick up a little bit where Cai left off on the military.
If I recall correctly last year you were down over 20% military spares in the first quarter or so.
Do you see that sort of playing out or do you see something better there Greg? Are you talking specifically at Sikorsky Howard or youre talking No I believe it was at Pratt.
No I think again Pratt we saw actually I think spares at Pratt let me just take a look here.
Pratt were up in the first quarter.
So youre going to have some positive comparisons there right? Yeah.
Should be positive yeah.
So how else do you you kind of are saying to us be careful in the first quarter because of the gains and some of the other items.
What else on an operating basis might help you lift the number? Well I think I mean were thinking at a bottom line that going to be a tough compare but I am sure theres operating performance that will make a difference.
Yeah I think again what youre going to see because of the accelerating organic growth is coming out of the fourth quarter backlogs were up.
So I think youre going to see a good top line growth and I would expect decent conversion out of that top line growth.
The thing about it for the year were forecasting organic growth of 3% to 4% that will give us $2 billion to $2.5 billion.
We should see some organic growth here in the first quarter which is going to help gain youll see it in Otis because of the backlog I think is seen at CCS and youll certainly see that in the Aerospace OEM side.
The only weak point youll probably see in the first quarter is Sikorsky which again is still looking at reduced Black Hawk production this year.
Recall weve been talking about a 20% reduction of Black Hawk sales year-over-year so thats probably the biggest pressure point in the first quarter.
And so a tax rate normalized going forward is like 28.5% Greg is that sort of where youre thinking about in Yeah I wish it were 28.5%.
I think again we had some employment opportunities in the fourth quarter and last years rate youll recall benefited from the tax extenders which got fast back in January of 13.
So we loose that benefit which was a full point on the rate.
So from a planning standpoint were expecting about a 30% rate going into the year now.
If that gets better because of extenders getting past again theres about a point of good news there and well look for some planning opportunities but right now weve got visibility to a 30% rate and thats the planning assumption at least going in.
I mean then just two more items one of CCS.
Can you -- have you gone to the point where you feel very comfortable with the portfolio or are there still some other divestitures that are teed up and does that reflect part of what you think will be the gains? Yeah probably not gains associated with the portfolio transformation.
If you think about as Geraud has been talking about $850 million of portfolio reductions or transformation at the legacy F&amp;S business.
As we sit here today I think he would tell you it's more like about $1.2 billion.
So if you think about the revenues this year I think CCS is going to see about $500 million of headwinds between divestitures we did during last year including like the Australia cash-in-transit business and some of the other businesses weve divested and what's on the block still for 2014.
And you had a very nice call on saying at the bottom that Carrier was going to show some leverage and that housing wasnt going to go to zero.
Can you put on your forecast thought for a moment and sort of tell us how you continue to see residential and do we see any commercial improvement at Carrier to share.
Yeah in fact I think thats -- the resi story I think is pretty well known I mean we finished the year very strong with sales up about 18% in the residential.
We saw that in heating we saw it in small package; we saw it in cooling as well.
So Id expect that that momentum continues.
But I think the better news if you will really goes on the non-resi side.
We saw Otis orders in North America up almost 13% in the fourth quarter and the CCS the commercial business orders were up about 5% even though sales were down 5%.
So were starting to see that recovery that we have been talking about in non-res and again -- and wed always say Otis is the leader and then CCS is a little bit later in the cycle.
But it feels pretty good on the non-resi side as we exit the year in the U.S.
Okay.
Thanks Howard.
Our next question comes from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Hi yes thanks.
Good morning Greg and Jay.
If I can just circle back quickly on the aftermarket; Greg you talked a lot about the heavy overhauls for a while and it's nice to start seeing that.
Whats the expectations on how long this can persist or the pent-up demand is this a six months phenomenon or is this something we could see throughout the year? Yes its a great question Peter.
I think again it caught us a little bit by surprise in terms of how strong the services business or the MRO business was at Pratt in the fourth quarter.
But clearly if you think about it over time with the airlines flying the hours that theyve been flying and the dip that weve seen in spares over the last couple of years you would expect this recovery to last at least go into the first half of this year.
But I dont want to get ahead of ourselves either I think youre going to -- we still think 5% is probably a reasonable expectation for the aftermarket to grow at Pratt &amp; Whitney this year.
Could it be better? It could but I would actually like to see another quarter or so of this under our belt before we declare victory.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Okay.
And Jay just could you remind us whats the aftermarket assumption for the year for UTAS? UTAS its high single-digit.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thats great.
Thats all from me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I just had two quick ones.
One on the EPS guidance for 14 I think you had negative contingency at the high end and I think Greg you mentioned a couple of things on pension currency.
Maybe a little bit benefit from the $100 million high restructuring.
Have you now established some positive contingency at the high end of the EPS guidance? Well let me -- lets talk at the midpoint and you can do the math.
We think there is probably about 200 million to 250 million of contingency at the midpoint at 6.70.
So there is a path to that high end today thats a little bit more certain than it was six weeks ago really because of pension and currency here.
So the restructuring gives us a little bit of opportunity but it is January.
So lets not get too excited about it.
Bad things can and will happen.
I will restrain myself Greg.
The 15% China Otis growth youve baked into the guidance.
Can you remind us the dynamics of backlog visibility for China versus the rest of Otis; is it kind of six months that you kind of have a 90% certainty on and then tails off in the second half? Yes Peter six to nine months is a typical rule of thumb that we use.
Some do go longer but six to nine months is a typical visibility.
In similar in China to the rest of the business? The rest of the business will be longer than China.
Yes the longer cycle projects talking more like 12 to 18 months Myles.
Okay great.
Thanks again.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol with J.P.
Morgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning  Hi Joe.
So organic growth perked up finally in Q4 to the 4% level and just wondering as you look to [Technical Difficulty] to be specific.
I'm sorry? 4.5% if you want to be specific.
Go ahead.
Right okay.
Well as we look into 2014 just thinking through the quarters here is this level sustainable in the early part of the year or how do you see that playing out? Yes.
I think again the order rate that we saw exiting the year gives us confidence in the organic growth.
Obviously backlog at Otis gives you -- I'm very confident Otis weve got 6% growth forecast for Otis this year.
I think thats almost like in the bag because you still have to deliver it and you still have to see service recover a little bit but high confidence there.
I think on the CCS side we are forecasting 4% organic growth for the year.
Again good backlog around the business on the non-resi side.
The resi business looks to be good.
Transicold looks to be okay and as long as Europe remains stable and does not surprise us on the downside I feel pretty good about that as well.
So again commercial OE that all looks pretty solid for the year.
So Im expecting a pretty good growth throughout the year.
The challenges you are facing on the EPS line in Q1 are pretty much all restructuring and earnings related EBIT related but not really sales related at all? Exactly.
It really just is one-time.
Pratt had a little bit of good news last year; $0.05 (indiscernible) quarter from a couple of contracts and then you had of course the gains last year versus the restructuring headwind this year.
So I just want to give you guys a heads up and it makes personally the IR team to rest easy when we got that out there they can talk about it.
But there is $0.20 plus of headwind going into the first quarter.
Okay.
And then just my other question is on Goodrich.
Could you give us an update on how you finished the year in terms of synergies and what youre seeing I guess in real-time on the deal? What youre expecting now in terms of the trajectory in 2014 and 2015 in terms of an update? Yes so synergies we're well on track.
I think we ended the year cumulative synergies at about $270 million I think.
So about $20 million ahead of what we had expected even in the middle of the year when we updated it last; so a good synergy traction.
We'll see another $100 million or so this year.
I'll just remind you the next tranche of synergies becomes more difficult because it relates to moving facilities product cost reduction and all of those things.
So Alain and team have got their arms around this and I'm pretty confident we're going to see another $100 million.
And then you'll see another almost $100 million in the next couple of years beyond that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Joe.
Our next question comes from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
On the growth you've seen in Otis China on the original equipment side is it possible to parse out how much of that is market share gain versus just the underlying market? Yes I don't know that I have that breakdown Noah.
I think clearly the market share in China has stabilized through the course of the year.
We think our share is somewhere around 15% or so maybe 16%.
But the market grew a lot stronger than what we had expected in 2013.
So a lot of that growth is just the market acceleration.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just one follow-up on cash deployment.
I know there are placeholders but the placeholders you have would generate a pretty large increase in the cash balance through the year.
And Greg you mentioned in the prepared remarks how much you've paid down debt since Goodrich.
Can you just sort of update us all on which buckets are most likely to see upside in terms of cash deployment this year? I think again you got the placeholder for $1 billion of share buyback and placeholder of $1 billion for M&amp;A placeholder of $1 billion for debt pay down dividends will be another call about $2 billion.
As we see it today I would tell you the $1 billion of M&amp;A is probably the squishiest number we have out there just because the pipeline today is not terribly robust.
But that can change.
I think again you never know what opportunity might avail itself during the course of the year.
So we'll see what happens there.
I'd just remind you that the color of money for M&amp;A is primarily outside of the U.S.
because of the $2 billion CapEx spend this year a big chunk of which is here in the U.S.
That's a big consumer of U.S.
cash.
Again the opportunity for us is working capital reduction.
If we see a turn in inventory starting to come down we generate a little more cash.
Clearly we'd like to see that share buyback number go north of $1 billion again and we'll just have to see how that plays out during the year.
But we don't want to see share growth again this year although there is a little tiny bit forecast just with the $1 billion of share buyback and the stock price where it is.
We're still going to get a little dilution from higher shares.
Is that less robust M&amp;A pipeline just plain old lack of availability of assets or is it more a  that the assets are there and there is an issue with pricing expectations? There are lots of things out there for sale.
But again the focus really for this year from last year has been on execution.
So we haven't been really I'd say pushing very hard on the M&amp;A front.
Obviously we're always looking but the focus is going to be again on execution this year.
So if something comes up I would tell you.
Prices have obviously accelerated dramatically in the M&amp;A space.
And we're going to focus in the core here.
So if something avails itself to us we'll certainly be in a position to do something.
But I'm not hopeful you're going to see a big M&amp;A number this year.
Not to say we're not looking though.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
So obviously we've covered a lot of ground already but just going back to the 2014 bridge you've got $0.08 for commercial OE mix.
I'm just wondering does the Bombardier C Series push out.
Does that make like $0.08 a bit more  maybe you do it squishy? Squishy? I guess I did use that word.
Obviously it gives you a little bit of upside.
I think we talked about as we said $0.08 or about $100 million of negative engine margin.
We'll pick up a little bit of that.
Again it just adds to that contingency that we talked about at the midpoint but it's not 100 million.
It might be a couple of pennies as we're going to pick up.
We're still going to be shipping hardware this year.
I think the Bombardier continues to build aircraft.
We're just not going to be shipping at the same rate that we had expected.
Yes both UTC Aerospace Systems and Pratt both have upticks in commercial OE.
UTC Aerospace Systems has higher volume on 787 as well as A350.
They're going to delivering and that's still going to drive some negative margin and Pratt just has higher commercial shipments.
It really doesn't change that number meaningfully at all.
Okay got it.
That's clear.
And then the 80 bips at Otis I'm assuming 50 bips on mix and up 30 bips for the factory transition but I'm just wondering are the service margins pretty stable year-over-year? I think we would say they're down slightly for the year and that's again pricing pressure that we saw in Europe.
Okay.
And then just finally you mentioned 2 billion on the CapEx is the peak for 2014.
Beyond 2014 Greg do you think it sort of stabilizes at this level or do we come back down to a more normalized 1.6 1.7? No it should come down.
This is really the year of the ramp.
If you think about it we have to have the CapEx in place the facilities in place this year because we start delivering neo engines next year.
So this is really the biggest year and we should see it I would hope come down $300 million $400 million next year although don't  I guess you can quote me at it but we'll see what happens.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Our final question comes from Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
Your line is open.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Good morning Robert.
Greg just on your Aerospace Systems looking at Aerospace OEM that wasn't bowing [ph] out pretty much at full rate on everything really this quarter with only the A350 yet to go.
Is there an opportunity to take out some of your inventory or working capital here now that we know with at a fairly stable rate? Yes I think it's probably  as you look back on 2013 one of the  I would say disappointments is the inventory turns did not increase.
As production rates ramp up we would certainly expect to see the velocity if not the actual amount of inventory increase.
So that's one of the focuses that Louis has this year is inventory  again not reduction but turn rate improvement.
Okay.
And then maybe just secondly on the engine side of things you commented about the technological progress on the geared turbofan but I was wondering if you can comment on the market share in the competitive situation of how it's held in versus the alternative engine on the A320? Yes I think across the A320 family I think its a little bit north of 15%.
On the A321s I think the market share is much better than that; a little less on the A321 and  I'm sorry the A319 family.
So it really varies by thrust class.
But I think the GTF clearly has been the winner on the longer range higher thrust variance.
All right thanks Greg.
Okay.
So I think we'll end it there as we approach the top of the hour.
Just to remind everybody a good year 16% EPS growth good fourth quarter organic growth; 4% and strong cash.
So making great investments in E&amp;D.
We've got a great backlog going into the year and it should be a very solid year for UTC.
I want to thank everyone for listening.
We look forward to seeing you at our Annual Investor Analyst Meeting and we're going to do it here at Hartford this year.
So we look forward to seeing you on March 13.
Thanks very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning.
And welcome to United Technologies First Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Jay Malave Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTCs website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and one-time items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTCs SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to two questions per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself to the queue and we will answer as time permit.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everyone.
As you saw in the press release this morning a solid finish to the first quarter with earnings per share of $1.32 and 5% organic sales growth.
Earnings were little bit better than what we expected driven by the higher organic sales.
Segment operating profit was up 9% reflecting improvement in all five segments and operating margin expanded by 90 basis points to 15.4%.
So a good start to the year which gives us confidence to increase the bottom end of our EPS guidance range.
We now expect 2014 earnings per share of $6.65 to $6.85 thats growth of 7% to 10% and an increase from our prior guidance of $6.55 to $6.85.
Okay turning to slide two organic sales grew 5% in the quarter with growth in all five segments.
As the momentum coming out of the fourth quarter of 2013 continued and the commercial businesses we saw 7% growth in the Americas helped by the ongoing U.S.
economic recovery and we continue to see signs of improvement in Europe organic sales were up 3% in the quarter.
The commercial businesses also saw 7% growth in Asia led by China where sales were up 14% more than offsetting some softness in other parts of the region.
Looking at aerospace continued weakness in defense where sales were down 2% was more than offset by strong growth in commercial OE and aftermarket where overall sales increased 8%.
Lets look at orders now on page three overall order trends remained positive for the majority of the portfolio.
Just a reminder we will talk orders on a constant currency basis as we usually do.
First in our commercial businesses we continue to see traction in North America.
Despite some weather related impacts at the beginning of the year the outlook for housing and commercial construction markets remained encouraging.
North America residential HVAC orders were up 19% versus last year as the housing market continues to improve and distributors stocks for the summer season.
The Architectural Billing Index or the ABI trends are positive and we see that coming through in our order in August where new equipment was up 39%.
North American commercial HVAC orders were down 4% in the quarter reflecting an uneven demand for large engineered systems although we continue to expect that business to grow for the full year 2014.
In Europe the economic environment is trending positively albeit slowly.
Eurozone PMI expanded for the nine consecutive month and economic sentiment is at the highest levels since about mid 2011.
Unemployment continues to be near all-time highs the deflation remains a concern.
At UTC CCS commercial HVAC equipment and fire and security product orders grew 15% and 10% respectively.
While Otis new equipment and CCS commercial refrigeration orders were each down about 2%.
Okay on China while reports recently suggested property markets slowdown in parts of the country we continue to see solid demand in housing and infrastructure in the first quarter.
Otis new equipment orders were up 25% in the first quarter with several large infrastructure project orders coming in the quarter.
CCS commercial HVAC was up 10% and fire product orders were up mid single digits.
So our building and industrial systems businesses continue to be well-positioned building on the strength we saw in 2013.
Moving to aerospace with increasing air traffic and airline profit projected to almost $19 billion this year.
We continue to see solid conversions of OE backlogs and good growth in our commercial aftermarket businesses.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney commercial spare orders were up 11% while UTC aerospace systems spares orders were up 9%.
So good broad base orders growth across the portfolio.
We will keep a close eye on China and the other emerging markets and continue to look for signs of further progress in Europe.
The order rates and microeconomic trends broadly support our assumption to organic growth as we move through the year.
Okay lets go take a look at the first quarter specifically now on slide four.
Full reported sales increased 2% as 5% organic growth was partially offset by headwinds from net divestitures and FX.
On the FX side the benefits from the year were more than offset by headwinds and other currencies.
Segment operating profit grew 9% operating margins increased 90 basis points including the benefit of course from pensions.
CCS saw solid drop through and continues to drive cost reduction where operating profit grew 15% with margin expansion of 200 basis points.
Aerospace systems at Pratt &amp; Whitney expanded margins by 170 and 80 basis points respectively each on the higher commercial aftermarket benefits from cost reduction actions as well as pension.
Earning per share $1.32 thats down 5% a segment operating profit growth of 9% was more than offset by $0.20 of net restructuring headwinds in the quarter.
Recall that in the first quarter of 2013 we had $0.11 sense of net gains while we saw $0.09 of net restructuring charges in the first quarter of 2014 as we invested in cost reduction initiatives ahead of some expected gains around the middle of year.
Absent the impact of gains and restructuring in both this years and last year earning per share were up 10%.
Free cash flow in the quarter was 83% of net income capital expenditure was $333 million thats up 13% versus last years as we continue to invest for ramp-up in commercial aerospace and working capital grew by $521 million in the quarter driven primarily by an inventory build to support sales growth in the year.
We also acquired $335 million stock under share repurchase program and we expect buyback at similar out here in the second quarter.
Let me stop there for now Id like to talk more about the full year but first let me turn over Jay who will walk you through the business unit results.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to page five Otis sales improved 7% at constant currency in the quarter with new equipment sales up mid-teens including solid growth form all areas most notably double-digit growth in China the Americas Eastern Europe and the Middle East service sales were up slightly.
Operating profit was up 1% at constant currency.
The positive impact from higher sales volume was partially offset by continued pricing pressure and carryover cost associated with the North America factory transformation.
New equipment orders were up 11% with double-digit growth in China and North America.
EMEA orders were down low single-digit.
For the strong order book and near-term completion of the factory transformation in North America Otis expects to see improving performance as the year progresses.
Guidance for the full year remains unchanged with profit expected to increase $100 million to $150 million and mid single-digit sales growth.
On slide six climate controls and security increase the profits 15% in the quarter on flat sales resulting in another sharp increase in margins up 200 basis points from prior year to 15.1%.
Organic sales were up 3% in the quarter benefiting from product and marketing investments.
On a regional basis the Americas business was up mid single-digit driven by 21% growth in the residential HVAC business some of which was due to earlier stocking by distributors for the cooling season from what we experienced last years.
Europe is turning the corner and was up slightly led by growth in commercial HVAC.
China was up high single-digit while Asia overall was flat driven by softness in other Asian countries and Transicold was up 7%.
Profit growth in the quarter was driven by strong conversion on organic sales as well as restructuring and net productivity gains driven by ACE and operational excellence.
Orders for global commercial HVAC equipment were up low single-digit.
Order for global fire and security products were up high single-digit partially offset by a decline in the fire and security field businesses.
Transicold orders which tend to be more choppy were down high teens.
With solid results in the first quarter we continue to expect profit growth of $225 million to $250 million on mid-single digit organic sales growth at CCS.
Turning to aerospace on slide seven.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney organic sales were up 4% in the first quarter as commercial sales growth across the businesses more than offset declines in military.
Including the divestiture of power systems sales were down 2%.
Large commercial after market sales were up 10% over last years first quarter which was the weakest of 2013.
Operating profit was up 4% driven by higher organic sales lower pension cost and restructuring savings which more than offset headwinds from adverse large commercial OE mix the power systems divestiture in the absence of last years contract close out at partnership settlement benefits.
For the full year we continue to expect Pratt &amp; Whitneys operating profit to be up $175 million to $200 million on most single digit sales growth.
UTC Aerospace Systems delivered a solid quarter with 17% profit growth on 6% higher sales.
Sales growth was driven by higher commercial volumes with OEM up high single digit and aftermarket up 10%.
Overall military sales were down low single digit with military OEM flattish and military aftermarket down mid-single digit.
Year-on-year profit growth was driven by higher commercial aftermarket volumes continued synergy traction pension tailwind and higher income from licensing agreements partially offset by headwinds from higher engineering spend and new program OE growth.
Operating margins expanded 170 basis points to 17.3%.
Orders for commercial spares grew 9% on a year-over-year basis with strength in both parts and provisioning.
For the year we continue to expect profit growth of $300 million to $350 million on mid-to-high single-digit sales growth at UTC Aerospace Systems.
Turning to Sikorsky on slide nine.
Operating profit grew 8% on 9% higher sales.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 48 aircraft including 36 based on military platforms and 12 commercial.
The sales increase was driven by higher international military and commercial OE volumes.
Operating profit growth was driven by higher sales volume and net favorable contract performance adjustments in our military business partially offset by unfavorable aircraft and aftermarket mix.
During the first quarter Sikorsky the Turkish government and key Turkish aerospace suppliers signed a licensing and manufacturing agreement for 109 multimission aircraft to be used by the Turkish government.
For the full year we continue to expect flattish operating profit and high single-digit organic sales growth.
With that let met turn it over to Greg for wrap up.
Okay.
Thanks Jay.
So solid start to the year.
We continue to achieve significant milestones in our programs and secure key wins for the future.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney IAE reached a new production milestone in February when it shipped its 6000 V2500 engines.
We also continue to see strong demand for the GTF engine with new engine offerings wins at ANA and Tiger Air in additional orders at the regional jet market on both the Embraer E2 and the C-Series platform.
Customers clearly see the advantage of our engine and have placed firm and option orders for over 5300 engines to date.
On the military side Republic of Korea announced its selection of the JSF as its next generation fighter jet.
Koreas commitment to purchase 40 F-35A conventional take-off and landing aircraft will bring expected international deliveries to over 700 aircrafts.
At aerospace systems the segment recently announced a long-term agreement with Lufthansa Technique maintenance repair overhaul services for aircraft interiors products sensors and integrated systems on the Boeing 787 aircraft.
We also recently extended our care program Singapore Airlines which provides repair services asset management.
The airlines expanded fleet of Boeing 777 aircraft.
Also in the quarter Sikorsky announced the entry into the service of the S-76D.
As Jay mentioned Sikorsky also signed agreements with the Turkish government to supply 109 T-70 helicopters which are variants of Sikorskys S-70i International Black Hawk.
On U.S.
government side prospects for the Combat Rescue Helicopter VXX Presidential Helicopter program remains positive.
The firm decision is expected around the middle of this year.
Okay.
Lets talk about CMH for just a second.
We continue to make progress on the CMH program and weve recently executed the second Principles of Agreement with the Canadian government which now defines a final configuration for the aircraft as well as the phase delivery schedule which allows for the retirement of the Canadian seeking helicopters beginning in 2015.
We also now expect that the final cost of the aircraft will be significantly higher than previously estimated as a result of additional requirements retrofit costs and expansion of the program schedule.
We continue to negotiate the financial impact of these program changes for the Canadian government but we would expect to record a charge this year associated with the acquisition contract upon the completion of the definitive agreements.
We expect the charge will be largely offset by other one-time gains beneficial items during the year.
Well provide an update later in the quarter as we work to finalize the agreements and complete our analysis of total program cost.
BIS or Building &amp; Industrial Systems had a very strong first quarter with combined organic sales growth of 5%.
Integration activities continue to progress well and the CCS and the Otis team continue to look for ways to serve our customers more efficiently and offer integrated high value systems.
Were pleased with the continued CCS momentum the return of profit growth at Otis and the overall growth prospects for the business.
And we continue to win orders in key emerging markets.
Now this is 25% order growth in China included large orders for the Shenzhen and Chengdu metros.
And CCS was awarded major maintenance contracts for the fire safety and HVAC systems of the New Cathay Pacific Cargo Terminal in Hong Kong.
We continue to expect the combined capability of CCS and Otis and the new Building and Industrial System organization to further accelerate top line growth.
So just as you heard from the presidents in March each of the businesses is well-positioned in our core markets and continued innovation will allow us to drive long-term organic growth.
Okay.
Taking a look at the rest of 2014 no real changes when we told you last month.
The compares get tougher as you move through the order trends and end markets are essentially in line with our expectations so far.
First as weve seen with recent development in the Ukraine things can change quickly.
But as I sit here today we remain confident in our updated guidance range at $665 million to $685 million with the path towards the high end and sales were about $64 billion.
And we continue to expect quarterly earnings per share growth of about 9% to 10% per quarter absent the impact of gains in restructuring will remain throughout the year.
We continue to invest in restructuring.
With visibilities to some additional gains and good payback restructuring projects across the business we now expect to spend about $375 million on restructuring this year all offset by one-time gains.
In the first quarter we spend $125 million.
We would expect to spend to be relatively level loaded for the rest of the year.
Gains however should come largely in the second quarter.
Strong cash generation remains a hallmark of UTC.
Although pressured by the increase in CapEx and working capital in 2014 we continue to target free cash flow equal to net income for the year.
Were going to maintain our placeholders of $1 billion for each of share repurchase debt paydown and M&amp;A activities.
Looking ahead we remained focused on growth and execution in 2014.
Were well positioned in our end markets and well continue to leverage our industry leading franchises in global scale.
UTC portfolio is poised to take advantage of the commercial aerospace growth and organization megatrends over the next decade.
So with that I will stop and open up the call for questions.
Stephanie? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
Good morning Julian.
Good morning.
I just had a question on Otis.
Because I guess in Q1 you had organic sales growth in line with the full-year target of 6%.
The EBIT was flat though.
So I guess what's giving you the confidence that with a given organic growth run rate the rest of the year you can get the EBIT up? Is it just that the U.S.
factory relocation costs were again a very big headwind in Q1 and that drops out or is there something in the mix that you're expecting? Theres a couple of pieces here Julian.
I think the Florence factory transformation.
It was a headwind but a small small headwind this quarter.
I think less than $10 million so drove a little bit of headwind.
Really the biggest issue was continued pricing pressures that we saw around the portfolio and you think about it where the growth came in the quarter we had 16% growth in OE and only 1% growth in the service business.
So it is the pricing pressure around OE that is pushing margins down a little bit and causing us to see I would say tepid growth on the op profit side here in the first quarter.
But it will get better during the course of the year and we expect service to improve to come down the cost curve and the equipment will get cost reduction in the factories.
We will see some of the benefits from the integration of BIS so all those things give us confidence.
We are still on track from $125 million to $150 million of profit growth for the year.
$100 to $150 million.
$100 to $150 million correct.
Great.
Thanks.
And then within I guess BIS overall you were targeting I think around mid-single digit growth for the year.
You did 7% growth in Q1.
Whats your sense on the sort of non-residential markets in North America specifically? Is that trending in line or youve seen kind of choppiness there through last year? Well there was really I would say two different stories in North American non-res.
Clearly on the OE side we are seeing very very solid growth in the commercial construction side of the business.
Again thats been driven by again the ABI above 50 here for most of the last year and really solid momentum in the commercial building space.
On the CCS side specifically on the carrier side I think Jay mentioned a little tougher compare there on the orders for the carrier commercial business and down about 4%.
But keep in mind little different business there that is primarily 80% of retrofit business and only about 20% relates to new building construction.
So we are seeing traction I think our new buildings.
I would also point out that the OTIS new equipment business fell much more dramatically than the carrier commercial business during the last downturn.
So I still think we will see growth in commercial business in carrier for the year slight growth and we expect the order trend momentum at OTIS to continue as well.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Carter.
Just a couple of quick ones.
One with respect to the pricing pressure at Otis I wondered if you might kind of give us some color there.
Has that intensified or eased at all whats been your sense on that this quarter versus what you talked about last year? Yeah.
I wouldnt tell you there is any trend change there.
We continue to see pricing pressure in most of the markets for new equipment as you can imagine.
But China remains the most competitive of all of the new markets.
We continue to see pricing pressure there.
North America a little bit better.
Again weve got new products that have come out and weve done very well in terms of market penetration and pricing looks to have stabilized at least in North America.
In Europe -- well it is Europe.
I mean its a tough tough market.
So I wouldnt say weve seen an inflection here but I dont think we have seen any improvement in pricing.
Okay.
Great.
And on the military front with respect to the down 2% number you quantified the numbers in UTAS but I wondered if you might speak to the declines you called out in Pratt and then at Sikorsky given obviously what should be a pretty tough aftermarket compare there? Sure Carter.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney the military business was down low double digits.
The OE business was down high teens and the aftermarket business was down low single digits.
At Sikorsky the military business the O.E.
was actually up as well as the aftermarket.
The O.E.
was up on the back of the international deliveries to higher international deliveries.
The aftermarket was up as I said in my remarks that there was a performance adjustments contract adjustments.
It impact profit as well as impact sales.
So that business including that was up around 10%.
If you exclude the adjustment what would the growth rate have been? It would have been more I think flattish.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks for the color guys.
Okay Carter.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol with J.P.
Morgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hey Joe.
Could you speak a little bit more to our Pratt spares? I guess first of all on the mix versus the legacy 4000 2000.
And then just thinking about the year the comps get a lot tougher starting this quarter and so do you expect to be up as we look and I know you are not going to give quarterly guidance for this one line item but maybe more on the profile? So let me start with some of the data points and orders.
The PW4000 and V2500 were both up.
The PW2000 was down.
But if you recall in the fourth quarter we had a significant amount of orders for the PW2000 for delivery in 2014.
So the book-to-bill on 2000 was well above around 1.5.
As far as going forward it is really -- as far as what we see is is really not much of a change in our expectations for mid-single digit growth for the year.
As Greg mentioned during his remarks traffic is still flowing well airline profitability is still strong.
We are seeing a little bit of higher content per shop visit as we start the year but again these things change.
So there will be no significant change to expectations for the full year at this point.
Okay.
And then just secondly on Transicold sales up nicely but orders down quite a bit Baltic Dry Index was down was down pretty significantly in Q1 so this is a pretty quick turn business.
So when you think about profile particularly margin profile for CCS for the rest of the year how is this is going to have an impact? Yeah.
Clearly I think weve got some headwind going into Q2 with CCS.
I think container was down more than 50% in orders in the first quarter but again sales were up.
And so to your point its a very short cycle business.
We still see the trend for refrigerator transport on a positive basis up probably 3% to 4% this year.
So its lumpy in the orders and I wouldnt panic about the Transicold as they sit here in April.
I think it was a year ago we went six months without orders in the container business and then all of a sudden it was gangbuster so.
We should really focus on the longer term prospects.
I think we are well positioned with great products as well as continue expanding markets.
Joe our expectations for the year are not overly aggressive.
We are expecting for the total Transicold business to be up low to mid-single digit.
So we are not banking on big growth in that business this year.
Okay.
If I might sneak just one more quick one in Greg you have $375 million of restructuring to offset now plus what seems that it could be couple $100 million - I dont know in a $100 million range plus of CMH charge so could you give a little color on the gains that you are expecting to generate? I wouldnt go -- I would tell you this.
We do see gains out there adequate gains to cover what we think is the range of potential loss on the CMH.
The good news of CMH is with this new contract I think we get a big chunk of the acquisition cost behind us change in the way we account for this going to a cost-to-cost basis.
So it gets it behind us and we have the flexibility with some things that weve got in the pipeline to be able to cover most of that costs.
So as I think about guidance $665 million to $685 million still very confident even with the CMH charge.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Good morning folks.
Good morning.
Just a couple of things.
Just on resi HVAC in the U.S.
just little peculiar that people would be stocking early it seems that there is something going on there where stocks extraordinarily low and any other color you would shed on that? Well I think as we talked about most of last year the dealer stock was relatively low on a historic basis.
If you look at inventories today it looks like they were up about 20% as we headed the first quarter which is in line with of course 19% growth we saw in U.S.
res business.
Again dealers are procuring for what they think is going to be a very strong summer season and despite these weather issues that we saw in the first quarter I think people are generally optimistic.
Housing starts were trending positively in over a million.
And keep in mind that this is still an 80% add-on replacement business.
Only 20% really goes to res and new construction.
As the U.S.
economy picks up I think everybody has got confidence we are going to see a very strong start to the season here.
Its early though so I dont want to get ahead of ourselves here.
We still expect good growth but clearly not at that 19% 20% that we saw in the first quarter.
And often it's kind of tough to really know what's going on with pricing this early in the season.
But what do you see playing out on pricing both in resi HVAC and in commercial HVAC this year? All right.
The visibility that we have Jeff is little bit of benefit in pricing on residential side.
I dont have visibility on the commercial side but a little bit of an uptick that we saw in the quarter.
Okay.
And then finally from me I was just wondering if we could come back to Otis and service.
Is service price also declining or your comments strictly around OE equipment? And I am wondering if youre seeing any firming in service in Europe at all.
Yes.
Service is still tough in Europe.
We are still seeing some price headwind especially in the southern markets.
I think service was down even in France this time.
Again it was offset it was good in Germany it was good in U.K.
it was good in Russia.
I think whats most encouraging as I think about Otis and service weve been talking about this for several years as were getting really good traction in China.
Last year the service business in China was up about 20%.
First quarter it was up almost 20% in service.
And last year I think we added about 50 branches or depots for service.
Were going to add another 50 this year.
We are getting traction there.
I think again this issue of pricing in Europe again we think its going to stabilize as we go throughout the year.
Weve seen signs of that but the future of service for Otis is going to be in China.
Thats where the growth is going to come and thats where we are focused right now.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Strauss with UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Back to Otis again in terms of the phasing of the quarters as we go through the year are you expecting it to continue to be all the EBIT growth to come into the second half and Q2 to be relatively flat year-over-year on an EBIT basis? Thats probably right.
You might get a little bit of growth here primarily -- again as you think about where the cost reduction is going to come in the factories or the cost reduction is going to come in terms of some of the integration activities that BIS is undertaking we are seeing mostly cost on the front end and then you picked up the benefits on the back end.
Okay.
Back to CMH so Greg are you implying now that the contract -- new contract that were going to have here its going to be restructured to the point that you can actually charge off the entire loss that you were going to see with new deliveries so we wont have this $14 million per unit hit on a go-forward basis? Let me try to explain this as simply as possibly.
Were going to go to a percentage of completion accounting or cost to cost.
So we will write off about 70% to 75% of the acquisition cost or the losses on the acquisition contract this year because were about 70% to 75%.
There is some small tailwind in the next couple of years as we complete deliveries but its not in the order of -- its nowhere near what were talking about before kind of its $120 million plus a year its substantially lower.
On top of that we will start to see the benefit of the ISS contract kick in 15 and 16 to offset some of the losses.
So the goal here is to get most of the bad news behind us I think by adopting this accounting which we think is probably a more realistic look in terms of the way the contract has been restructured gives us the opportunity to do that.
And just as a last follow-up what does this due to the Sikorsky guidance for the year I think the flat EBIT number had baked into that $120 million loss? Yes obviously they had a $120 million baked in and we run through the segment results.
So whatever the charges there the gains arent coming at Sikorsky but the cost certainly will.
So as you think about Sikorsky guidance that weve given it is next CMHP except for the $120 million thats baked into the forecast.
Thank you.
Thanks David.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Actually I want to follow a little bit more with respect to what David said.
I mean Greg if I understand you have built almost all the helicopters already.
So the charge should be -- I don't know if $350 million $400 million the way to think about it when you affect this accounting? Yes I am not going to get into the exact number.
The reason is as I mentioned earlier on we renegotiated say the scope of the aircraft.
So the aircraft will be more expensive because of the increased requirements and the spec changes that we are making.
Weve got some retrofit cost and all of them previously contemplated.
So the total cost for the aircraft is going to go up.
And as I said we are 70% 75% done with the total acquisition contract.
So its a good trade here.
I think we are pretty confident that weve got the wherewithal to recover this.
I mean forever today I have been hoping that.
I mean because when you look on the balance sheet it's over $800 million of sort of capitalized costs if I'm not mistaken related to this contract at the moment.
Yes actually over a $1 billion but who is counting.
I mean I guess but keep in mind so we are still negotiating with the customer on this contract.
We are not done yet.
So we got to finish the contract negotiation which should be in a couple of weeks.
Weve got to go through that and do a bottoms up estimated complete for the whole contract.
I think when Louis stands up at EPG by the end of May we should be in a pretty good position to give you guys a number.
And clearly if it happens after that we will let everybody know as soon as we do what the impact is there.
I appreciate.
Thats a big help.
The other thing thats important has been that you have been working a lower cost in lot of the other businesses.
Could you address some of the actions that UTA has done to drive out its cost? I mean clearly there were some profitability related to pension and spares but you are also trying to lower the recurring cost of what you are doing to become even more competitive? UTA I think you are referring to UT Aerospace Systems as opposed to UT Automotive? You and I have been around too long.
Yes I think so.
There is a couple of things I think you mentioned.
Weve got some good news out of pension in the first quarter.
We continue to get good news out of cost reduction on the products.
We are coming down the learning curve on the 787.
I think we are up to 10 ships sets a months on 787.
So driving cost down there.
Also we continue with some of the synergy savings.
We are going to get about $100 million of incremental synergy savings during the course of the year but there is probably $25 million sitting in the first quarter.
So all those things that Alain and Dave Gitlin and Mike Dumais talked about month ago are all coming to fruition really good margin expansion.
Obviously the pension was a little bit of a one-timer we got a benefit here in the first quarter but still on your line a good solid cost reduction good execution across the aerospace systems business.
And then lastly I noticed you had about $100 million of divestitures or proceeds from divestitures can you characterize them a little bit and are there some other businesses that continue to keeping the call busy? I think actually these were keeping us a really busy because primarily this was -- I think yes this is part of the whole portfolio rationalization that Geraud has been talking about for the last three to four years and nothing big on the horizon a couple of small fire and security related businesses but nothing significant.
I think there was a guarding business as well that was divested in the Far East but there are really nothing terribly significant.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Howard.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Sam.
Greg you mentioned that the majority of the gains are going to be coming in the second quarter.
I know you dont typically like to give any sort of the quarterly run rate but how should we be thinking about the size of the gains that are going to exceed the restructuring in the second quarter? While we talked about $375 million of gains for the year to offset the restructuring all $375 million will come in the second quarter as it relates to the piece that is covering the restructuring.
As far as the gains to cover the Sikorsky charge there will be a little bit in the second quarter and then some in the third and fourth.
Okay.
And then just going back to some of the comments around the Europe I think the building and industrial systems being up 3% youve guided Europe to being up slightly.
And so I am trying to just think you just talked about Otis service really hasnt improved.
So where is that improvement and at what point are you prepared to talk about Europe perhaps being a little bit better this year than youve had in the outlook? Probably in December.
I think Europe has been better.
Again we have seen strength in Northern Europe on the new equipment side.
I think I mentioned on the service side as well.
So a good order traction in Northern Europe.
Southern Europe remains a concern.
I think orders were down in Spain Greece Italy.
So again its this balance but I think generally were looking consumer sentiment its up across the continent unemployment remains high but things are getting better.
I just dont want to declare victory.
I think right now first quarter positive signs.
We look at auto sales are starting to pick up.
Interest rates remain very low.
All of those indicators are there that we should see a recovery.
So absent again something bad happened in Eastern Europe to upset the apple cart.
I think we feel pretty good about the projections that weve got right now.
Okay.
And one last question the $660 million increase in inventory you said its supporting sales growth later in the year.
So when we look at the year end should we expect inventories to be flat with where they were at the end of last year? That is the plan Sam.
I think Inventory was up a little bit I think the issue will probably be at Sikorsky on the CMH program and continue to add Pratts starting to add inventory as they start to ramp up for production on C-series on the A320neo.
So it would be a little bit of inventory growth but the growth that you saw in the first quarter although was across all the businesses you should see most of that start to come back in the cash flow as we go through the year.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the Ron Epstein with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Good morning Greg.
Just maybe a follow-on to Howards question how should we think about M&amp;A? I mean you hinted at the investor meeting up in Connecticut that you guys like bigger M&amp;A/ How should we think about that over the next say 12 to 18 months? Is UTC contemplating doing something I mean how do we think about it? Well in very simple terms I would say I think there is no big deals this year as we sit here and however this is April but thought of actually consummating a big deal this year is very unlikely.
But we continue to look and I think there will some smaller deals less than probably $1 billion for the total year still again primarily in the CCS side of the business or the BIS side.
And then as we will continue to look for those opportunities of scale we want to do things that fit into the core but that will capitalize on the global scale.
We are going to continue to buy back shares this year as we have talked about and if there is opportunity without an M&amp;A maybe we will take share buyback up again towards the end of the year.
But right now we are focused on this normal long-term goal and pricing is very difficult on the M&amp;A market today.
We bought Goodrich back in 2011.
Timing was very very good.
Interest rates remain low but today prices are up as you know on in the equity side and everybody wants a 30% premium which makes these deals very very difficult.
So we are going to continue to look for value but I can tell you with underlying strength in the business we do organic growth I am not in a hurry to spend the share or money at deals just to grow we dont need to buy growth.
We will buy opportunistically we will buy for value and we will buy on the core.
Okay great.
And then just second question changing gears a little bit.
When we think about the gear turbo fan and you're starting to move into a period here with we are not too far away from the A320neo going into service.
And how do you -- how are you guys going to recognize profitability on those engines right? Because my understanding is you're selling with something like 80% of them was power by the hour contracts.
So will it be different -- won't it be different than what we currently see with the V2500 or is that going to go?  Yes.
Right now again its a little bit in a state of flux because I think there was a new revenue recognition standard coming out from the FASB in May thats supposed to be due our last year which is going to cause us to re-look at how we recognize revenue.
But as we state here today we are going to continue to recognize revenue the way we always have to commercial engine business which is as we ship an engine we will recognize the revenue or we will recognize the loss on the engine when we ship.
We dont have the ability that Rolls-Royce does to smooth earnings over the life of a aftermarket and OE contract where you can look at a 20-year aftermarket revenue stream and its normalized margins.
Thats just not allowed under U.S.
GAAP and it wont be allowed under the new revenue recognition standard either.
But once this new rev rec standard comes out we will take a look at it.
Its not adopted till 2017 which is just coincident with the big ramp up that we are going to see in the GTF production.
So we got time.
We will take a look at it and see what the impact is.
It will impact some of the other businesses because it will force us to go to percentage of completion of some of the military programs some of the Black Hawk but again little early to worry about that.
Okay.
And then if I can just sneak in one quick one.
Its my understand in the quarter your China orders I notice were up 27% and in that I mean I think you guys have two big China orders.
I mean if you were to exclude kind of two major orders out of China how would we think about of that?.
That was about half of the growth came from infrastructure projects and not just those two but broadly speaking half was infrastructure half was on the property side.
Okay.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Okay Ron.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
Your line is open.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Hey Rob.
Greg just a quick aftermarket question should we read anything into the slowdown in new order growth in the first quarter is that just the normal timing ahead of the price increase? Yeah.
The first quarter is typically the slowest quarter for order growth as you mentioned we increased prices of catalogue prices.
January 1 catalogue is published I think October 1.
So yeah we saw big ramp up in fourth quarter orders across the aero business.
So first quarter I think we feel pretty good about it.
Again this is all driven continued RPM growth where I mean the airlines are flying the aeroplanes the airlines are making money and they are bringing the engines back to be repaired and we are seeing actually I think the most encouraging thing is content per shop as they are starting to trend more positively.
So I think it all feels pretty good and look we dont expect this trend we are not going to grow 16% this for the rest of year but we still feel very confident of the guidance for spares for the year.
And then secondly on the share buyback you are also trending ahead of that overall annual amount Q1 you said you are going to see the same in Q2? Is there any sort of strategy behind this or is it just availability of cash? Either early.
I think the key of course is quickly you buy the shares back the better this average share count is for the year and we got the cash sitting here we took advantage of that we bought back most of these shares early in the first quarter.
We are buying back shares through 10b-5 program today in the marketplace and that we will probably do that again in the third quarter trying to get ahead of this.
And then if we get to the fourth quarter where we will probably spend all the share buyback by the end of the third if cash looks good and there is no other big M&amp;A opportunities out there we will probably take share buyback up again just like we did last year.
I am talking a big number but a little bit.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from Cai von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks so much.
So follow-up on CMH so Greg was the total expected loss higher than it had been before as a result of the new contract? As I said Cai the total cost of the aircraft is going to go up and youve got new specifications from the customer a little bit higher retrofit cost and the program is going to last a little bit longer the acquisition.
So it will go up and again I am not prepared to tell you exactly how much because quite frankly we are not done negotiations.
I just know as I sit here today is going to be higher and I think we will clarify all that.
Okay.
Right.
But so before kind of its look like roughly 335 if we kind of do the rollout and for contract of this size I mean it kind of sounds like this total number could be in the area of $500 million to $600 million and if the quarter of it is still in front of us is it unfair to assume that we have got another 100 150 something in that order of magnitude in front of us in 15 and 16? Hey Cai you get way ahead of me here.
Look until we get the contract actually negotiated and until we know what the total contract value is going to be both the aftermath and the OE all the trades are made before we get the EAC done I really cant comment all I know is the aircraft is going to be more expensive as I said we are 70% to 75% done again depending upon what this retrofit look like.
So I am going to say out of the math work today and I will let my boss do that for you hopefully in May.
Okay.
And then just back maybe to the principal so we basically split those into two contracts which is kind of equipment and then aftermarket support so that the aftermarket support portion of this should be profitable? Is that the right way to think of it? That has always been the case Cai.
I think we have already said money in this contract at least for the last five years it has been the aftermarket contract that provided the shield if you will for the losses on the OE and that's not going to change.
Okay.
And then the last one the GTF with kind of the slip on the C-Series how many units are we looking for this year? And give us some color on the expected build in unit production maybe in 15 and 16? You talking delivery this year Cai? Yes.
Yeah you talking small numbers you probably in the range of less than 10 shipments this year its small numbers.
And how does that build in 15 and 16? Though mentioned -- I'm going to say if you think about the run rate production is somewhere between 36 and 48 aircraft a year and build over the next several years.
Again I think originally planned about 20 aircraft this year or 20 deliveries this year.
It will build next year but I got to tell you the real ramp will be starting at the end of the next year on the Neo whereby 2017 will be delivered 500 plus engines a year.
So C-Series is our very important customer but the volumes are going to be very small compared to what were going to see on the Neo.
Terrific.
Thanks so much.
Thank you Cai Our next question comes from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Hi Doug.
At CC&amp;S you had $43 million in restructuring costs in the quarter.
And that's higher than we've seen in some time.
What's the focus of the restructuring at CC&amp;S and what should we expect to see over the course of the year?  The biggest piece of the restructuring for the quarter was actually factor that we had outside of Milan called Villasante where we made commercial -- Im trying to think whats the right word for it (indiscernible).
And again weve been downsizing that facility for a number of years.
We finally in the fourth quarter -- first quarter here agreed with the Works Council there on a plan to close that facility.
Again that was a relatively large portion of the charge with some other headcount related actions and some smaller things around the globe but Villasante is probably the biggest piece of the restructuring in the first quarter.
So theyre going on later in the year we shouldnt see that level I assume? There will be additional restructuring across the CCS.
Again I think the most of the factory actions I think are done.
I think what you going to see is more VIS integration related activities as we closed offices and consolidate some of the facilities around the globe.
And again most of that would be Otis but some will leak into the CCS segment as well.
Okay.
And then at UTAS you said that E&amp;D was higher in the quarter and whats driving the increase right now? And how do you look at the E&amp;D trajectory going-forward for UTAS? Yeah.
It was higher but were talking to small number less than $10 million of growth in E&amp;D for the quarter.
Really if you think about everything thats on the plate at UTAS you got obviously the A350 the C-Series the Neo the 777X now.
I mean all of these new programs are driving their requirements thus 787-9 with the -10 coming up.
Theres all sorts of fun things to do there and they all are spread a little bit higher engineering expense.
So engineering we think its more fun loaded we think for the full year total across the all businesses will be relatively flat but little bit higher here in the first half.
So youre not looking at a -- sort of as you take the 787-8 up I mean theres enough work on 787-9 and 787-10 that we shouldnt see this come down very quickly over the next 12 months to 18 months is that fair? I think the pipeline is pretty full at aeropace -- I mean both at the Pratt &amp; Whitney ate the Aerospace Systems Group.
I think the engineering pipe is pretty full.
Remember were going to get done with the C-Series this year entering into revenue service hopefully towards the end of the year or early next year.
And youve got the Neo youve the got the Mitsubishi regional jet you got Irkut up there and then you got the Embraer airplane coming after that.
So engineering spending it will come down gradually perhaps as all these aircraft could certify same kind of profile which youre going to see at the aerospace systems business.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Okay.
Our next question comes from Shannon OCallaghan with Nomura.
Your line is open.
Morning guys.
Good morning.
Hey Greg.
Just maybe a little more on this disconnect between Otis and commercial HVAC in North America.
I mean up 39% on Otis down 4% on commercial.
I mean I hear your point about the retrofit but that's still a pretty big difference.
I mean is there anything else you see going on in terms of the lag in the market or I know you were coming out with some new applied products; is there anything going on there? It just seems like probably even adjusting for this retrofit point you made a little bit of a wider gap than you would think? Yeah.
I think we continue to have -- see really good traction of the late commercial roof tops.
I think again where we are lagging or we have lagged for number of years is on the implied side.
To your point we have new products in the pipeline new products coming out that we think well address this as we go through the year thats why were confident as we begin.
The sales will pick up on the commercial business as we move through the year as we get these new products out there but clearly the issue has been on the applied.
This is not a new phenomenon.
The small rooftops continue to be very good business for us good share but little bit behind on the applied side.
Okay.
And then just following up on your point on China service really being the story for Otis going forward did you have to take any more additional actions there to kind of gain critical mass? And have you seen any meaningful shift in the willingness to pay OEs to do this service? Well I think this is about investing for the future.
I mean you got to continue to add service technicians.
Youve got to continue to add infrastructure offices and depots.
Yeah Otis has been making investments for the last two years now.
There had a couple of thousands people into the service little workforce over there.
This will just take time.
You also have to remember the way we go to market there and China is a little bit different because our biggest business was with Sheitzo.
As we go through agents and we dont get the same attachment rate or conversion rate there we are working with the agents to make sure that we can capture more of that service revenue and find a win-win with the agents to capture that going forward.
So I think were getting good traction.
Its going to be investment for us for a number of years.
But the margins will continue to improve as we get better route density and as we expand the footprint there in China.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Our final question comes from Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hey Myles.
Maybe one quick clarification on CMH.
Just for 2015 as you look at it in isolation by everybody that built in a loss on the delivery of a set of aircraft is your baseline assumption now that we are in a better position or worse position or neutral position to that Greg? I dont think were in a worse position but I really can't tell you exactly where we are.
I think again the idea here is to get a big chunk of the cost behind us this year to eliminate most of the headwind but Im just -- Im very reluctant Myles to go out there until we get this thing negotiated to give you a final number.
Okay.
And then the other clarification or maybe color I wanted was on the F-35 those fan failure and the fix that's ongoing.
How is that affecting your deliveries or progress your recognition on the contracts? And where is the kind of the escape trajectory from here? Yeah.
I think were on track with the F-135 engines.
We had good deliveries in the first quarter.
We continue to come down the cost curve.
There was an issue on test stand.
We talked about that.
And I think again we understand the root cause we are working on all that.
So again these things happen.
There was an engine that was a long cycle endurance.
And we are clearly on track with the development of the technical aspects of that engine.
Its fixed.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks Myles.
All right.
So with that let me just wrap up and first of all I wanted just to maybe a little housekeeping here.
And first of all welcome Casey Forrest to the IR Team.
Casey is joining us from Financial Planning Groups.
Casey will be on the phone with you guys later today.
I want to thank Josh Banis for his three and a half years of service to the IR Group here.
He has done a great job.
Many of you know him.
I hope you wish him well.
He's off to get a real job as a CFO of our Actuation and Prop business over in the U.K.
So wish he and his family well.
So with that thanks very much for listening and look forward to hearing from you guys today.
Thanks very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and everyone have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies Second Quarter conference call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Jay Malave Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTCs website at <a href="http://www.utc.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.utc.com</u></a>.
Please note the company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and one-time items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTCs SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to two questions per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself into the queue and we will answer as time permits.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Okay thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
As you saw in the press release today UTC reported second quarter earnings per share of $1.84.
Thats up 12% excluding the impact of restructuring and one-time items.
Adjusted segment operating margins expanded by 90 basis points to 17.1% in the quarter.
That concludes a solid first half with 4% organic sales growth and earnings per share up 11% excluding the impact of restructuring and one-time items.
All that gives us confidence to increase the bottom end of our EPS range so we now expect 2014 earnings per share of $6.75 to $6.85  thats growth of 9 to 10% versus our previous guidance of $6.65 to $6.85.
Okay turning to Slide 2 organic sales  organic sales grew 3% in the quarter led by strong growth at aerospace systems and Otis.
In the commercial businesses we saw 3% growth in the Americas led by 15% growth in Otis.
In Europe where the economic recovery remains tepid organic sales were down 1% in the quarter; however Asia saw 5% growth.
In China specifically commercial sales grew by 10% led by Otis which was up 15%.
Looking at aerospace continued weakness in defense where sales were down 4% was more than offset by strong growth in commercial OE and the aftermarket where overall sales increased 7%.
Moving to Slide 3 order trends  overall trends remain positive for a majority of our portfolio; and just a reminder well talk to the commercial businesses on a constant currency basis as we usually do.
In our commercial businesses we continue to see traction in North America.
U.S.
consumer confidence hit a six-year high in June and the outlook for commercial construction remains encouraging.
ABI trends are positive and we continue to see that coming through in our orders at Otis where North American new equipment orders were up 44%.
Commercial HVAC orders were up 3% in the quarter.
North American residential HVAC orders were down slightly versus last year and youll recall we had a very strong first quarter as distributors ordered ahead of the summer cooling season; but residential orders year-to-date are essentially in line with our expectations for the year.
In Europe as I said before the economic recovery remains slow.
Euro zone PMI and economic sentiment eased some in June on concerns over rising oil prices and the situations in the Middle East and Ukraine but both indicators remain in positive territory and growth is expected to pick up in the second half.
We saw that reflected in UTCs order rates in the region.
Otis new equipment orders were up 10% led by strong growth in eastern Europe where orders were up more than 20% while in developed Europe orders grew at a 4% rate.
CCS fire and security product orders grew 18% and commercial refrigeration orders were up 5% and commercial HVAC grew at 2%.
In China as you know the government has recently stepped up spending on infrastructure projects and eased banks reserve requirements to shore up growth.
In the second quarter orders for CCS commercial HVAC were up 7% and fire products were up 10%.
Otis new equipment orders were flat on a tough compare from last year.
Youll recall that last year Otis saw orders up 39% in China in the second quarter partly due to a large order for the Goldin Finance 117 Tower in Tianjin.
China new equipment backlog is up 20% versus the prior year and on a unit basis new equipment orders were up 12% in the quarter so our building and industrial systems businesses continue to be well positioned as we head into the back half of the year.
Moving to aerospace with airline profits projected to be almost $18 billion this year and ongoing growth in air traffic we continue to see solid conversion of new equipment backlogs and growth in our commercial aftermarket businesses.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney commercial spares orders were down 6% due in part to a strong first quarter.
Total large commercial engine aftermarket sales were up 10% in the quarter on the back of a continued trend of heavy overhauls going through our shops and this continues to support our expectations for full-year aftermarket growth of about 5%.
At UTC Aerospace Systems commercial spares orders were up 28% driven primarily by strength in provisioning.
While some uncertainty still exists in the global economic outlook order rates and macroeconomic trends continue to support our assumptions for organic growth of about 4% for the full year.
On Slide 4 taking a closer look at the second quarter total reported sales increased 7% as 3% organic growth and the $830 million cumulative sales adjustment for the Canadian Maritime program were partially offset by net headwinds from net divestitures.
Segment operating profit grew 8% and operating margins increased by 90 basis points including the benefit from pension.
CCS saw the benefit of restructuring and product cost reduction initiatives where operating profit grew 9% leading to margin expansion of 210 basis points.
Pratt &amp; Whitney and Aerospace Systems expanded margins by 150 and 70 basis points respectively each on the benefits from cost reduction actions and lower pension expense.
Earnings per share in the quarter were $1.84  thats up 8%.
Restructuring costs and other one-time items which include the CMHP charge in the quarter were fully offset by favorable tax-related items.
Youll recall the second quarter of 2013 had $0.05 of net gains.
Absent the impact of the prior year net gains earnings per share were up 12%.
Free cash flow in the quarter was 80% of net income.
Capital expenditures were $406 million  thats up 10% versus last year as we continue to invest for the ramp-up in commercial aero and working capital grew by more than $400 million in the quarter.
We acquired $335 million of our stock under our share repurchase programs and we expect to buy back a similar amount in the third quarter.
Let me stop there for now.
Ill be back to talk more about full-year but first let me turn it over to Jay to take you through the business unit results.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to Page 5 Otis sales improved 7% in the quarter with new equipment sales up mid teens including solid growth from all areas most notably in China the Americas and the Middle East.
Service sales were up slightly.
Operating profit was up 3% constant currency.
Strong new equipment volume most notably in Asia and the Americas drove the increase in operating profit moderated by continued pricing pressure.
New equipment orders were up 3% with double-digit growth in the Americas and Europe.
As Greg mentioned earlier orders in China were flat for the quarter against a tough compare to last year which included the Goldin Finance 117 in Tianjin project.
While new equipment activity in China is normalizing to levels in line with our expectations for the year we were encouraged in the quarter with solid growth in new equipment unit bookings.
Based on year-to-date trends we now expect operating profit for the full year to increase $100 million to $125 million from a prior expectation of $100 million to $150 million on mid-single digit sales growth.
Otis expects to see improving performance in the second half from strong new equipment sales growth and continued improvement in factory performance in North America.
On Slide 6 Climate Controls and Security increased profit 9% in the quarter on 3% lower sales resulting in margin expansion of 210 basis points to 19%.
Organic sales were down 1% with mixed results across regions.
Organic sales in Asia were down low single digits including slower backlog conversions in the commercial HVAC business Transicold was flattish and Europe was up slightly.
U.S.
residential HVAC was flat for the quarter following a solid first quarter which included the benefit of early distributor stocking.
For the first half the residential HVAC business reported high single digit sales growth in line with the full-year expectation.
Profit growth in the quarter was driven by restructuring and integration savings lower commodity costs as well as continuing product cost reduction effort.
Equipment orders were up 2% with global commercial HVAC equipment up low single digits led by China.
Orders for global fire and security products were up mid-single digits more than offsetting the decline in the fire and security field businesses.
Transicold equipment orders were up mid-single digits.
Based on first half results we continue to expect profit growth of $225 million to $250 million for the full year at CCS now on low single-digit organic sales growth from our previous expectation of mid-single digit.
Turning to aerospace on Slide 7 at Pratt &amp; Whitney operating profit was up 11% on 1% lower sales resulting in margin expansion of 150 basis points.
Organic sales were up 1% as 10% growth in large commercial aftermarket more than offset declines in commercial OE and military.
The operating profit growth was mainly driven by lower pension costs and restructuring savings and the absence of last years contract closeout benefit was partially offset by a gain on the sale of product line this quarter.
For the full year we continue to expect Pratt &amp; Whitneys operating profit to be up $175 million to $200 million on low single-digit sales growth.
UTC Aerospace Systems delivered another solid quarter with 14% operating profit growth on 9% higher sales.
Sales growth was driven by higher commercial OE and aftermarket volume up a combined 16% partially offset by a low single-digit decline in military sales.
Year-on-year profit growth was driven by higher commercial aftermarket volume the favorable impact from a customer contract settlement continued synergy traction and pension tailwind partially offset by higher engineering spend on new OE programs.
Operating margins increased 70 basis points to 16.7%.
Orders for commercial spares grew 28% on a year-over-year basis led by strength in provisioning.
Commercial spares in the first half of the year are up 18% on a year-over-year basis with year-to-date book-to-build just north of 1.0.
For the year we continue to expect profit growth of $300 million to $350 million on mid to high-single digit sales growth at UTC Aerospace Systems.
Turning to Sikorsky on Slide 9 operating profit decreased by 10% on 1% lower sales.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 63 aircraft including 46 based on military platforms and 17 commercial.
The sales decrease was driven by lower U.S.
government OE and aftermarket volumes partially offset by higher international military and commercial OE sales.
On profit the headwinds from net unfavorable contract performance adjustments primarily in the military business more than offset benefits from restructuring pension and other cost reduction actions.
During the second quarter Sikorsky was awarded two significant contracts for the development of the VXX Marine 1 replacement aircraft for the U.S.
Navy and a combat search-and-rescue helicopter for the U.S.
Air Force.
These contracts in total exceed $2.5 billion with follow-on production orders expected to exceed $10 billion.
Based on the CMHP contract amendments and other contract performance adjustments as well as aftermarket trends through the first half we now expect higher year-over-year operating profit of about $25 million on low single-digit sales growth from a prior expectation of flattish profit on high single-digit sales growth.
With that let me turn it over to Greg for wrap up.
Okay thanks Jay.
So overall another solid quarter for UTC and we continue to achieve important program milestones and secure key wins for the future.
Some highlights in the quarter: we announced several significant wins at the Farnborough Air Show last week.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney we continue to see strong demand for the GTF engine across platforms including recent wins on the A320 Neo C-series Embraer E2 and MRJ.
Customers clearly see the advantage of the GTF product and have placed firm and option orders for 6 000 engines.
In May Pratt delivered the first chipset of geared turbofan engines to Airbus and is ready to support the first flight of the Neo later this year.
As youve no doubt heard weve had a couple of engine-related development issues in the quarter.
While certainly disappointing these things do happen in development programs which is why we put the engines through such a rigorous test process.
The good news is that the issues are unrelated and in the big picture the fixes will be relatively minor.
Were pleased that the Pentagon has approved the JSF for resumed flying on a limited basis.
The F135 engine has accumulated more than 26 000 ground and flight test hours but we continue to learn and develop the technology to provide our customers with the capability and reliability they require.
On the C-series we understand the root cause of the incident and were working closely with Bombardier to resume flight testing as soon as possible.
The fundamental architecture of the geared turbofan engine remains sound and with nearly 10 000 hours of ground and flight testing its the most mature of the new generation of advanced commercial engines entering the market.
With significant testing behind us we look forward to bringing the GTF engine family into service in 2015.
Also in the quarter on the Aerospace Systems segment we were selected to provide wheels and carbon brakes for both the Boeing 737 Max and the Airbus A320 Neo platform.
They also secured new long-term MRO contracts from several airlines and they celebrated the delivery of the 10 000<sup>th</sup> Boeing 737 nacelle.
At Sikorsky they were selected on two key U.S.
DoD programs in the quarter.
It was awarded the engineering and manufacturing development contracts to build the next generation Marine 1 Presidential helicopter and to develop new combat search-and-rescue helicopters for the U.S.
Air Force.
Combined these two programs represent over $12 billion of future sales opportunity.
On the commercial side the Civilian Aviation Administration of China recently issued a type certificate for the S76B which allows Sikorsky to begin delivering the helicopter to customers in China.
Were also pleased that Sikorsky and the Canadian government concluded contract amendments in the second quarter which define a final configuration for the CMH aircraft and a phased delivery schedule allowing for the retirement of Canadian Sea King helicopters beginning next year.
We recorded sales of $830 million and a charge of $438 million in the quarter reflecting the cumulative effect of progress to date towards completion of the modified program.
This puts the CMHP OE losses largely behind us.
Under percentage of completion accounting we will have some small charges as we progress on the program but they are manageable within the Sikorsky numbers going forward.
The building and industrial systems businesses had a solid second quarter with a combined 7% profit growth.
Integration activities continue to progress well with Otis and CCS teams finding a way to serve our customers more efficiently.
A recent example of this was in Hong Kong where UTC Building and Industrial Systems was selected to provide building systems for the i-Square shopping and entertainment complex.
This project will include intelligent building management systems chiller plant optimization and remote monitoring.
i-Square is also equipped with Otis escalators.
So each of the businesses is well positioned in our core markets and were delivering real value to our customers and securing key orders that will drive top line growth well into the future.
Taking a look at the rest of the year not much really changed from the last time we spoke.
As you know the compares get tougher as we move through the year but first half order rates and end market trends continue to be broadly in line with our expectations and were confident in the revised guidance range of $6.75 to $6.85 with a path towards the higher end on sales of about $65 billion up from our prior expectation of about $64 billion primarily on the Q2 CMHP sales adjustment.
We now expect quarterly earnings per share growth of about 7% to 10% in the last two quarters of the year absent the impact of gains and restructuring.
On restructuring were investing about $375 million for the year and we spent $180 million in the first half so you can expect to see about $100 million of restructuring spend in each of the next two quarters.
As we committed we expect the restructuring and one-time charges including the second quarter CMHP charge will be offset by gains during the course of the year.
We also continue to anticipate pay down of about a billion dollars this year and we now expect share repurchase of $1.25 billion for the year  thats an increase of $250 million from our prior expectations.
On the M&amp;A side we expect spend will now be a little bit less than a billion dollars.
As you know at UTC we typically deliver free cash flow greater than or equal to net income.
Through the first half free cash flow is 81% of net income and cash flow is generally stronger in the second half; but as I sit here today I think 90% to 100% for 2014 is more realistic based on the continued investments were making on the aerospace side to deal with the aerospace cycle.
Looking forward we remain focused on growth and execution in 2014.
Were well positioned in our segments and will continue to capitalize on our industry-leading franchises and global scale.
The UTC portfolio is poised to take advantage of the commercial aerospace growth and urbanization megatrends over the next decade.
So with that lets open up the call for questions.
Kevin?  Morning everyone.
Greg I was wondering if you could address a little bit cash flow into next year at least at a high level.
Obviously the working capital burden may remain heavy but you still feel that youre at kind of a peak level for capex and how might those items trend in the next year? Yeah I think as weve said before Jeff I think capex definitely peaks this year just shy of $2 billion  thats up from about $1.7 billion last year and then next year well see that come down $200 million $300 million again as the ramp or the facilitization for the ramp is pretty much complete by next year.
Again were going to start delivering these engines at the end of next year and we have to be ready so the money is going out now.
Its part of the working capital build as well.
Well continue to target 100% of free cash flow to net income both this year and next year.
I think were just acknowledging now that its going to be really difficult to do it this year just given the big capex ramp and the working capital ramp associated with the GTF launch.
I was wondering if you could provide a little more color on U.S.
commercial HVAC trends both around the applied and unitary markets.
Jeff total commercial HVAC orders were up low single digits.
The applied was actually up higher mid to high single digits and the light commercial was up a little bit low single digits.
Those are order numbers or--? Those are orders.
And do you have sales? Sales  I do not have sales in front of me.
Ill have to get back to you on that Jeff.
Great thanks.
Ill pass the floor.
Thanks good morning.
On the UTAS spare side obviously some pretty good numbers and I know its provisioning but does that give you more confidence in your profit guidance for the year for UTAS or how is all that flowing through? Theres a lot of elements to the profit growth at the Aerospace Systems group in the back of the year.
Theres a big chunk of synergies coming through.
Obviously the aftermarket is supportive of the guidance.
Clearly its a big number for UTAS and back half is going to be big; but generally I think weve guided to about high single digits I think Jay for Aerospace Systems aftermarket growth.
This is obviously a little bit better than that so yeah I think it all just goes through the back half of the year and everything should be pretty much in line.
Okay and then over at CCS you brought the mid-single digits down to low single digits for expected organic growth.
Can you give some color on not in the quarter but just in terms of the guidance for the year which end markets thats lower in? So first half of the year organic growth at CCS was about 1%.
Back half of the year were expecting about 4% so weve got a little bit of a hill here in the back half of the year.
Again still confident were going to hit that guidance number out there  225 to 250  even on the lower sales expectations.
I think generally things are in line with what we expected.
Resi was a little soft in the second quarter but that really just relates to the big pre-buy we saw in Q1 so I think its about up 9% year-to-date.
We expect it to be up kind of high single digits in that range in the back half of the year as well.
Order rates on the commercial HVAC has improved.
Order rates at Transicold have pretty much stabilized; so again I think all the pieces are in place to get to that 4% growth and obviously theres cost reduction initiatives and other things that give us confidence to hit that number.
But generally speaking I think (indiscernible) were pretty well on track to deliver that back half growth.
Okay thank you.
Thanks.
If I look at the Pratt EBIT guidance for the year I think it implies growth of about $120 million in the second half.
You did about plus-70 in the first half and I guess if you look at whats gone on in Q2 youve had weaker commercial spares orders but also you mentioned maybe there might be some extra E&amp;D needed for the engine fixes.
So what gives you the confidence that youll see a big step up in year-on-year EBIT growth in Pratt in the second half? Well Julian what we havefor the year for Pratt a substantial part of their profit growth is restructuring savings which is pretty much baked  a lot of that was taken last year  as well pension benefit.
Again thats pretty much going to be reflected in their results.
Aftermarket as Greg said is up 10% year-to-date.
That will moderate a little bit in the back half.
The other piece of it is that well actually get a little bit better performance out of the military business a little bit lighter on shipments on the military engines particularly in the JSF.
Well see that ramp up in the second half of the year and well also get a little bit of lift out of Pratt &amp; Whitney Canada who is off to a pretty reasonable start year-to-date.
So those two businesses will help offset some moderation Id say in the large commercial aftermarket.
Yes Id also just point out were in the process of definitizing the lot for LRIP 7 with the JSF so there were a number of engines that could have or should have gone out the door here in the second quarter.
There is more than 12 of them that will go out here in the third quarter so youre going to see a bump in military OE coming into the third quarter which is going to help as well.
Thanks.
My follow-up is in BIS your China sales in the first half were up about 12% I think in total.
What do you expect that second half revenue growth number to be? I think on Otis what weve guided to is mid-teens  about 15% which is exactly what we saw here in the second quarter.
The CCS side a little bit lighter than that just a little less than 10% in the back half.
And again order rates as we look at the GST business and the other businesses commercial HVAC are all supportive of that back half.
Great thank you.
Morning.
On Otis what was it that lowered your guidance outlook for profit for the year? Has the outlook changed at all in terms of pricing or demand? It was small tweak  I think we took down the top end by about 25 million.
Weve grown earnings just under $30 million in the first half of the year.
We saw a nice return to profitability profitability growth in the second quarter but its just the realization that were probably not going to get to the top end of the range.
We continue to make investments in new products  I think we saw that when we were in China a couple of weeks ago.
But you know were going to get that factory transformation.
Its pretty well complete youre going to get some tailwind from that.
Its probably not going to get to the top end  in Europe pricing is still a little choppy and its just the realization that were more likely towards the middle of that range.
Okay.
Then on UTAS when you look at how the 787 program is going can you comment on progress there? And as you look forward presumably the program will become a bigger contributor to UTAS margins.
How should we think about the trajectory for the 787 in terms of profitability? Well clearly 787 were still in a negative margin situation across all of 787.
I think we talked last year we mentioned we were losing about $3 million a ship set.
That number is coming down significantly.
Within I think 2015 or 2016 well be close to a breakeven point on 787 so we are coming down the learning curve as we expected.
Still a lot of work to do.
Reliability is improving on the aircraft systems that are out there.
Were close to our contractual goals that weve got with the Boeing company continuing to work with Boeing on product improvement opportunities.
So the program is going well and theres really no surprises there.
Yes also Doug weve got the Dash 9 coming on line here too; and dont forget part of the growth and provisioning this quarter was on the back of 787 so youre seeing nice profitability and provisioning which helps offset at least a portion of the negative margin associated with the OE.
And is the Dash 9 leading to some significant change activity for you in this that sort of pushes the trajectory back a little? No it was a few of the systems that are different on the Dash 9  the environmental controls the ECS system was upgraded but most of the other systems are the same so its actually helping in terms of the learning curve on the product.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Yes good morning Greg.
First a clarification  on the GTF engine fix I assume thats applying out to all the models.
Is that going to affect the certification timeline? No in fact really this particular fix we think is just related to the C-series engine itself.
Each of the architecture is a little bit different and we have not seen a similar issue on any of the other models that are out there.
Okay and then just a quick one on Pratt &amp; Whitney Canada are you seeing any ready change regarding the lower end of the business jet market? JustI think thats 40% of your mix up there.
No itsI guess the best way to describe it is its still a little choppy.
Deliveries are picking up a little bit but theres still a lot of used inventory out there.
Orders have really not picked up.
I think the best news there is flying hours have picked up a little bit and as you know most of that business is on power by the hour so were still seeing a decent cash inflow but really not seeing a bit step change in terms of the growth of the market.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Greg I was wondering if you could kick off on China on the orders trends youve seen there.
Have you seen any shift in market share in your various products? Nothing dramatic I would say.
I think again Otis has regained itsor is regaining I guess I should say the share that we had lost in previous years which is really a trend that started last year its continuing into this year getting a little bit more traction on the commercial HVAC side and GST continues to gain a little bit of share.
But again generally everything is improving about as we had expected in China there.
And secondly on the Aerospace Systems aftermarket did you actually say what the aftermarket revenue growth was in the quarter? It would be helpful if you could spell out how much was provisioning.
Total aftermarket revenue growth was up around 10% in the quarter.
It was led byagain spares were up low teensspare sales were up low teens in the quarter.
And the amount that was provisioning? Provisioning sales  lets see.
ThoseI have orders Robert.
Ill have to get back to you on the sales element of provisioning versus parts.
Okay but I imagine this could be quite lumpy this provisioning.
Yes.
Provisioning is very lumpy so that 28% growth that we saw here in Q2 dont look for that to repeat.
But again its primarily 787 related which is good news.
A lot of airlines out there are taking new aircraft which leads to all of this provisioning.
The trend will continue but just not at that 28% rate.
Great thanks very much.
So you had a flat compare in orders in Otis China against a very stiff compare but if you look at the monthly data on residential housing prices it looks like its rolling over.
Whats your expectation for orders in the third and fourth quarter and for growth in China Otis next year? I wish I had a crystal ball Cai to answer that question.
Generally I think the thing to think about in the back half of the year is backlog which is up about 20% so were expecting about 15% sales growth.
So weve got I would say the backlog to carry us through at least through this year and even into next year.
Orders have continued to be good.
Last year orders in the second quarter were up 39% obviously on the back of that one large order but when you take out the Tianjin 117 order last year orders were up about 14 or 15% this year on an apples-to-apples basis so the trends have remained positive in the business.
Back half of the year is it going to slow? Probably.
I think again is it going to be somewhere between 5 and 10%? Perhaps.
Weve seen the Chinese economy is cooling a little bit but we still expect growth of 7.5%.
Residential prices we know have been moderating and even coming down in some markets and thats a big piece of our business; but infrastructure has more than taken up the slack where were seeing the drop on the residential side.
Terrific.
Then kind of getting back to spares Boeing is saying theyre going to have about 16 to 18 new customer introductions this year and the same next year; and next year we also have the A350 coming online so maybe give us some color on the expectation for continuing vigor in provisioning  I mean maybe not at 28% this year and next year.
Look thats all baked into what we consider to be the guidance for this year which was high single digits  you know 9% kind of growth in the Aerospace Systems aftermarket.
Clearly the introduction of the 787 to all these new customers is whats driving the provisioning growth this quarter and will continue to drive it into next quarter so its great that this plane is going to so many new customers.
It really does support a lot more provisioning although not everybody gets provisioning  some people go on our total care package where were actually providing the spares for them.
But again I think the trends that were seeing this year theres nothing out there that would tell me those trends should not continue into next year but I think its a little early to start talking about 15 guidance.
Thank you.
Greg youve had a lot of restructuring items and I appreciate some of the walk; but could you talk a little bit about tax rates for the second half of the year? I mean we know a 16% rate in this quarter is not sustainable and then Ill have a follow up.
Yeah I would ignore the ETR  the effective tax rate  in this quarter because again all these one-time tax-related items that we had  you know the settlement of the 09 and 10 tax years a couple of other minor adjustments  the rate wanted to be about 31% in the quarter on an operating basis.
Back half of the year were expecting about 29% so again a little bit of better news in taxes coming up but not a lot.
The wild card out there of course is extenders which we still dont have in the guidance; and whether that happens this year or not I think nobody knows but obviously it still gives us upside if it does.
To follow up that 29 does not include some of the benefits that youve outlined that youre likely to recoup or record as gains during the balance of the year right? Yeah theres about $0.25 of additional gains were going to see in the back half of the year on top of the $0.28 that we picked up in Q2 on the tax rate.
So when Im talking about that 29% rate that is operational  thats not I would say the reported rate.
We will pull all those gains out of the math for you so that we can try and keep it clean in terms of operating result.
So those gains also include the Watsco benefit that will show up in the third quarter? The Watsco benefit  youre talking about the option exercise? Yes sir.
Yes its small.
Its not very big at all.
Then the last thing is just to go to Pratt weve had these collaboration intangible benefits for some time that have helped the numbers.
How do you sort of see that playing out and doesnt that sort of help the reported results at Pratt over the intermediate term before you transition to the GTF? So youre talking about the collaboration benefits associated with the IAE transaction Caior Im sorry Howard? Usually I get confused with George! Sorry Howard.
Thats all right  thanks Greg.
Yes I am.
I mean some of them I know are installment payments in effect to Rolls but the balance reflects I think pricing of engines.
Doesnt that sort of help the Pratt numbers? Well in fact you really need to go back to the original IAE transaction where as part of the consideration for Rolls transferring its share of IAE to Pratt we agreed to give them higher pricing on the OE side so that was really part of the purchase consideration.
So the losses on the engines actually go up as a result of that but under the purchase accounting rules that becomes an intangible.
As we ship those engines those losses go into intangible asset really part of the purchase price.
And also it starts to shrink dramatically because those are only engines that were in backlog as of the day that we closed on the IAE transaction.
All the new orders for these that weve had dont reflect any of that benefit although they do reflect the higher price we pay to Rolls Royce on their share of the engine.
So yeah its out there.
It was all contemplated at least the collaboration piece all contemplated as part of the overall consideration just like the flight hour payments.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Just two quick ones for you.
Your prior guidance I believe had $0.05 in it for the Canadian Maritime helicopter.
Now that thats out of the guidance how come you guys didnt take up the higher end of your range by a nickel or so which had the previous guidance for the Canadian Maritime in it? Make sense? Yeah your precision exceeds our accuracy though.
The fact is youre right  we did have $120 million baked in for the CMH.
The back half of the year there will still be about $50 million of CMH-related costs in addition to the charge so nominally we could have picked up a little bit.
We did take Sikorskys guidance up about $25 million but theyve had some much slower military aftermarket sales than what they had expected and they had some EACs that have gone against them in the first half of the year so theyve consumed about $50 million of the good news associated with what should have been guidance on the CMHP.
So really weve only increased by $25 million which is a couple of pennies and we just didnt feel like we were going to take up the top end of the range for two cents.
Okay great.
And then switching over to Climate Controls and Security in the quarter the margins were really good right  19% before the one-time stuff.
How should we think about that for the remainder of the year? Thats a pretty darn good trend right? Yes its a great trend Rob but dont forget the second quarter is typically the heaviest particularly on the U.S.
residential side so youll always see a stronger margin percentage in the second and third quarters.
That will come down sequentially.
There will still be margin expansion over last year but youre talking probably on average in the range of say 17% in the back half of the year.
Okay.
Was there any one-time positive things in there big sales or something that No it was a very clean quarter no one-timers or anything like that.
Everything got pulled out that would have been a one-timer so a very clean quarter.
Just again good performance on the cost side good traction really around the whole business from a cross standpoint.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Greg I wondered if you might be able to just actually provide more detail on what the C-series engine fix and resolution is and how the implementation of that is going to play out because what we can see in the press has been fairly high level and it sounds simple but I guess the aircraft has now been grounded almost two months so any more detail there would be really helpful.
Yes I didnt get my engineering degree unfortunately so Im not going to be able to give you probably the technical answer that youre looking for.
We do knowI mean we identified a root cause of the engine oil seal leak early on in the investigation.
We have a fix in place.
Were continuing to work with the customer  Bombardier  to work with the Canadian airworthiness authorities to get the plane flying again.
We expect it will be a couple of weeks.
Again this is not a big big deal in terms of the architecture.
Its happened back in the turbine section and has nothing to do with the gear up front and really a relatively minor fix.
Its unfortunate that it happened when it did in the testing program; but again not a big fix in terms of engineering development costs.
Okay but its seeming like another couple of weeks before the aircraft are back in the air it sounds like? Yeah I cant give you anything better than that.
I think thats what we heard earlier this week and I know the folks at Pratt and Bombardier are working as hard as they can to get that thing flying again.
Okay.
Jay you were about to give the Aerospace Systems spares order provisioning versus parts breakout.
Can you actually just provide those numbers in the quarter? Yes the provisioning was quite high  youre talking in the range of 80% and the parts were flat.
Sales or orders? Orders.
Parts were flatIm sorry.
Okay thanks a lot.
Morning everyone.
I might have missed this but for Otis China orders what was the attachment rate and maybe some broader context of where you expect to see that trend over the next year or so with the new regulations.
Yes I think the conversion rates or the attachment rates as youre referring to them I think are pretty consistent with what weve seen where were getting somewhere around 60% or so on the Otis China brand and a much lower conversion rate on the XOEC and the Sigma brands.
Again youll recall we sell direct at the Otis China Limited and were selling through distribution so attachment rates in total are still around 25% I think across the portfolio nudging upwards a little bit as were trying to make a big push towards the aftermarket.
I think aftermarket there or service there grew 20% last year.
We expect it to grow another 20% this year and we added 50 branches last year and are in the process of adding another 50 branches this year.
So were putting the infrastructure in place to support the continued growth in the service and the real key will be for us to work with our distributors through the distribution model to make sure that we can capture more of the aftermarket or conversion from the XOEC brand.
Great and then on capital allocation just the update that youve given us this morning boosting buybacks and maybe cutting back on that placeholder on M&amp;A just put this in context for us.
And also how are you funding the buybacks? Most of your cash is offshore so whats the expectation in terms of funding those? Well again were working to get some of that cash back as tax efficiently as we can but as I sit here today I think we spent less than $90 million on M&amp;A through the first half of the year and its just a realization as were sitting in July weve got a couple of smaller deals in the pipeline but youre talking less than $250 million or $300 million each so hard to imagine were going to get towards that billion-dollar placeholder.
So we just took it down directionally and well give you more guidance at the end of September.
Again were taking up the share buyback and looking at the price over the last month or so weve obviously been trading down.
Its a very attractive investment in terms of our M&amp;A dollars so were going to put more there and were going to be patient on the M&amp;A side.
Great thank you.
Morning guys.
Just a couple of quick ones.
Greg you said the CMH the charges going forward would be manageable but I think last quarter you said the charge you were going to take was going to be about 70 to 75% of the total loss which would imply if that didnt change kind of $125 million or so to go.
Is that still the right order of magnitude and how should we think about the phasing of that over that next two years? Yes so just to be clear when we took the charge for the $438 million that included all the losses going forward on the program and included an extension of the initial in-service aftermarket training and support which actually drove the loss higher because instead of putting these aircraft in service in 15 and 16 its going to take it out through 2021 before were done so that drove about another $100 million of losses that were going to recognize as part of this whole charge.
If you think about it back half of the year well probably see as I said $50 million about $25 million a quarter.
Next year the total number goesits around $20 million a quarter not quite and then really after that it becomes noise because the aftermarket startsthey start to accumulate hours on the aftermarket which more than offsets any of the losses that were going to have as we complete.
So were about 70% done.
Weve incurred about $700 million of losses on that program so you can nominally think theres about $300 million to go between now and 2021; but the real headwind is third and fourth quarter this year and then next year and then its really behind us.
Okay great.
Thats great color.
Thanks.
Then just as a quick follow-up Jay you mentioned in you remarks the difference in unit order growth versus dollar bookings at China Otis.
Could you give us those numbers? Yes the unit bookings were up  I think Greg mentioned it in his remarks  were up 12%.
<br>Okay thank you very much guys.
Thanks Carter.
Good morning.
Greg in terms of organic growth in the second half you mentioned the comps get a lot tougher yet youre forecasting organic growth for the most part in line with what we saw in the first half.
Can you just talk about kind of at a high level whats going to drive that? Yes theres a couple of things.
I mentioned before we didnt get a bunch of the JFS engines out the door at Pratt.
That contract should be done here in another month or so LRIP 7 so thats going to help on the military side at Pratt.
We continue to see a ramp on the Aerospace Systems side aftermarket is going to continue to grow.
I think again as I look at the backlog today it really supports the back half sales forecast.
Orders down 6% at Pratt in the aftermarket but total aftermarket was still up 10%.
Were seeing heavy overhauls going through the shops.
It looks like it should be pretty achievable to get to that 4% growth.
I think clearly Otis has the backlog not just in China but around the world  you see new equipment orders continue to grow.
CCS has good backlog in its businesses and really noagain could bad things happen? Absolutely but really as we sit here today I feel pretty good about the overall economic growth in our markets.
Okay.
On GTF you mentioned some of the wins at Farnborough but looking at versus your competitor it looked like your competitor actually announced more orders and it looks like market share has kind of shifted a couple points in favor of the Leap.
So could you just talk about how you think GTF is doing overall in the market and what kind of pricing youre seeing on GTF relative to what youre realizing on B2500s? Thanks.
I think again it was a big air show.
I think GE announced a lot of orders in conjunction with G-cast.
Weve got right now about 6 200 engines I think on order  we said 6 000 I think right now its about 6 200 and weve got just about 50% market share.
Its lumpy  I mean these campaigns happen sporadically where youll be 100 or 200 engines that get awarded at a time.
GE has been successful in the last couple of weeks.
At the end of the day I think the market will decide which technology is best and we still think the GTF architecture in terms of what it does for fuel efficiency from a noise from an emission standpoint is going to outperform the Leap in the marketplace and that will ultimately be the determinant of what the market share is.
In terms of pricing pricing is tough but its always tough in this entry into the service space so I would say theres not much difference that we have seen in terms of market pricing dynamics but its a tough market out there.
Thank you.
Just a couple of clean-ups.
The order rates at Pratt in particular can you just help us with the split between the Vs and maybe the 2000 and 4000 4000 in particular? Yes the order rates the Vs were up high teens.
The 2000s were down substantially  70%-plus again on that tough compared.
The 4000s were down around 10% in that range and again a little bit of just timing of shop visits there.
We actually sawon some of the older models were seeing nice content per visit and we actually saw nice growth on the older models so it was actually some of the newer models that showed a little bit more weakness and that again is more of a function of just timing.
As you look out to 15 can you give a rough proportional mix  is it still about 50/50 between Vs and other or is it going to be 60/40 by that point in time? The Vs are essentially growing at 10 to 15% and I would say the older engines would be flattish going forward so youre going to see that mix shift continue to where itd probably be 55% and going towards 60%.
Okay.
Then the other clean-up  Jay the contract benefit size on UTAS can you size that? Yes its about $0.03.
Okay all right.
Thanks guys.
Yes good morning.
The aero margin looked weak to me particularly with what you size as the gain.
I mean you were down sequentially from the first quarter and revenues were up a couple hundred million so can you just tell me what was going on there? George it was basically the E&amp;D.
They were upin E&amp;D this was the highest quarter of E&amp;D at UTC Aerospace Systems and we expect that to come back down in the back half of the year.
Yeah they accounted for all of the increase in E&amp;D in the quarter.
Okay.
Then how much was the gain at aero in the quarter? That was Youre talking about the contract settlement? Yes.
Three cents.
Three cents.
Okay.
I meant to ask this  Pratt you had also mentioned there was some gain.
How big was that one? Oh less than $20 million.
Okay thanks very much.
Thank you.
Okay thanks Kevin and thank you everyone for listening in.
A solid quarter and were on our way to a solid year at UTX and look forward to taking your calls this afternoon.
Thanks again.
Take care.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies Third Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Jay Malave Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTCs website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and one-time items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTCs SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to two questions per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself into the queue and we will answer as time permits.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Okay.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everyone.
As you saw in the press release today UTC reported solid third quarter earnings per share of $2.04 and 5% organic sales growth.
Gains net of restructuring was $0.22 in the quarter which is higher than previously expected largely due to the timing of some tax settlements in the third versus fourth quarter.
Excluding the impact of restructuring and one-time items earnings per share was up 12% and segment operating margins expanded by 60 basis points to 17.2% in the quarter thats a record for UTC.
With three quarters of the year now in the books we can look back at a pretty good start 4% organic growth and earnings per share up 11% year-to-date excluding the impact of restructuring and one-time items.
As a result we remained confident in our 2014 EPS expectation of 675 to 685 as earnings growth of 9% to 10% on sales of about $65 billion.
Okay.
Turning to slide two organic sales.
You can see organic sales grew 5% in the quarter with solid growth across all five of our businesses.
In the commercial businesses we saw 5% growth in the Americas led by 9% growth in North American residential HVAC as the U.S.
economy continues to improve.
In Europe where the economic recovery is uncertain organic sales were up 1% in the quarter.
The commercial businesses also saw 7% growth in Asia.
In China specifically sales were up 9% led by Otis which was up 12%.
Shifting to Aerospace for the first time this year we did see growth in the military business which was up 3% led by development programs at Sikorsky and solid growth in commercial OE and aftermarket continued where overall sales increased by 9%.
Okay.
Slide three.
Lets take a closer look at our end markets.
Overall trends remained positive for a majority of our portfolio.
And just a reminder were going to talk to the commercial businesses on a constant currency basis as we typically do.
In our commercial businesses we continue to see momentum in North America.
U.S.
consumer sentiment reached to 14 months high in September on employment gains and optimism over wage growth.
As I mentioned before North American residential HVAC sales were up 9% in the quarter and orders were up a multiple of that very strong but driven primarily by early order activity ahead of the [014] standard change that goes into reflected January 2015 for the southern and western regions of the U.S.
Positive ABI trends continue and the outlook for commercial construction remains encouraging.
And we saw proof of that in Otis where the North American new equipment orders were up almost 60% in the quarter.
In Europe a little different story Europe zone PMI was 14-month low although it did remain in modest expansion territory.
And economic sentiment fell to a 10 month low in September as concerns over the economy increased.
Were obviously keeping a close eye on the economic situation in Europe and we saw mixed orders there in the quarter.
Commercial HVAC orders were actually down 11% although we did see 15% growth in commercial refrigeration and fire and security product orders grew by 12%.
Shifting to China and Otis new equipment orders were flattish versus the prior year reflecting the lower conversion of pipeline opportunities to book orders.
However new equipment backlog continues to remain strong at Otis and up 14% versus the prior year.
Orders for CCS commercial HVAC and fire products were both down slightly in the quarter.
Earlier this month in a move to bolster the housing market the Chinese government cut mortgage rates for second home buyers and lowered down payment rates to 30% from 60% to 70% previously.
This actually marked the first time since the 2008 2009 financial crisis that mortgage rates were reduced in China and signals the governments continued willingness to use fiscal policy to support growth.
While we continue to expect growth in China will moderate it should continue to outpace global GDP.
And our Building and Industrial Systems businesses remain well positioned in the region.
Moving to Aerospace with robust airline profits and ongoing growth in air traffic we continue to see solid conversions of our original equipment backlogs and growth in our commercial aftermarket businesses.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney total commercial aftermarket sales were up 7% in the quarter and large commercial engine spare orders were up 1%.
In our Aerospace Systems business commercial aftermarket sales were up 10% and commercial spares orders were up 11% reflecting strength in both parts and provisioning.
Youll notice on that chart that were highlighting the new metric beginning this quarter that is commercial aftermarket sales for both Pratt &amp; Whitney and Aerospace Systems to better reflect the evolving business model from a transactional parts sales business to a comprehensive service business.
Well talk a little bit more about that on slide four and you can see that illustrated for Pratt.
Ten years ago only 10% of our engines were covered under our fleet management program or an FMP.
As you can see weve migrated last year about 50% of the Pratt fleet was under an FMP.
And this is going to continue to increase with time.
The next generating engines the GTFs were up about 80% of those engines covered under FMP or fleet management program.
This creates value for our customers the airlines as well as Pratt &amp; Whitney.
Were incentivized with the airlines to keep the engine on wing as long as possible and to improve reliability.
As weve entered into these FMPs our customers have seen a significant improvement in reliability of the engines because we were able to maintain those engines at an OEM standard.
So over time well see a gradual decline in the transactional spare parts business as the legacy fleet starts to retire.
The good news is that youve got the V2500 fleet and the new GTF fleet replacing those spare part sales with FMP sales.
So again a changing business model and well continue talking about aftermarket sales growth going forward for both Pratt and Aerospace Systems as its a more meaningful metric.
Taking a closer look at the third quarter results total sales reported increased 5% thats all organic segment operating profit was up 8% and operating margins increased by 60 basis points including the benefit from pension.
CCS saw the benefit from organic growth and cost reduction initiatives where operating profit grew 9% leading to margin expansion of 110 basis points.
Pratt &amp; Whitney Aerospace Systems each expanded margins by 130 and 110 basis points respectively.
Earnings per share of $2.04 thats up 32% and of course that benefits of a $0.22 of favorable one-time items net of restructuring cost in the quarter.
Recall the third quarter 2013 have $0.08 of net restructuring charges.
So absent o the impact of these items of both 2013 and 2014 earnings per share were up 12%.
Free cash flow in the quarter was 83% of net income.
Capital expenditures were $415 million and thats up 8% versus last year as we continue to invest for the ramp up in commercial aero.
And investment and working capital grew in the quarter as well.
We acquired $425 million of our stock under our share repurchase program and we now expect to buyback another $400 million in the fourth quarter and that will bring share repurchase to a total of about $1.5 billion for the year.
Lets stop there now.
Ill be back to talk more about the full year and provide a glimpse of how were thinking about 2015.
But first let me turn it over to Jay to take you through the segments.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to page 6 order sales improved 4% in the quarter led by a high single-digit new equipment sales growth most notably in China in the Middle East.
Service sales were up low single-digit overall with solid mid single-digit growth in our businesses outside of Europe where we saw a slight decline in service sales in the quarter.
Operating profit was up 3% at constant currency.
Profit growth in the quarter was driven by contribution from volume and net productivity offset by continued pricing pressure.
New equipment orders were up 4% in the quarter.
New equipment orders in China were flattish reflecting a slower conversion of jobs in the pipeline to actual book business.
We were encouraged by results in other areas especially the Americas where orders were up sharply for both the quarter and year-to-date whereas new equipment orders in developed Europe were up mid single-digit in the quarter.
The recent strengthening of the dollar is creating headwind on Otis profit and we now expect profit to be up $50 million compared with previous earnings growth guidance of $100 million to $125 million.
On a constant currency basis we still expect Otis to grow profit by about $100 million for the year.
On slide 7 Climate Controls and Security increased profit 9% in the quarter and 3% higher sales.
Margin expanded by 110 basis points from prior year to 18.2% continuing the CCS momentum and margin expansion.
Organic sales were up 4% with growth reported by all regions.
We saw strength in the Americas with the residential HVAC business reporting 9% growth and commercial HVAC up mid single-digit.
Outside of the U.S.
both EMEA and Asia reported low single-digit growth.
Commercial refrigeration was up mid single-digit while Transicold was up slightly.
Profit growth in the quarter was driven by contribution from organic volume as well as benefits from restructuring and integration savings.
CCS global equipment orders were up 5% excluding the impact of the shift in order timing driven by the pending U.S.
regional cooling efficiency standard change.
Orders for global fire and security products were up high single-digits more than offsetting flattish fire and security field businesses.
Transicold orders were up low single-digit.
Based on year-to-date results we continued to expect profit growth of $225 million to $250 million for the full year at CCS on low single-digit organic sales growth.
Turning to Aerospace on Slide 8; Pratt &amp; Whitney delivered solid results with 15% operating profit growth and 5% higher organic sales resulting in a 130 basis points of margin expansion.
Higher aftermarket sales across the businesses including 7% combined growth in large commercial and Pratt Canada aftermarket more than offset declines in military OE.
Operating profit was driven by higher commercial aftermarket sales favorable pension and restructuring benefits which more than offset higher E&amp;D.
The quarter also benefited from favorable aftermarket contract performance and licensing agreements which exceeded similar benefits from 2013.
Large commercial spares orders were up 1% year-over-year and up 3% sequentially building up the 7% sequential improvement in the second quarter.
Year-to-date overall commercial aftermarket sales are up high single-digit as industry fundamentals and demand remained solid.
This supports our full year sales growth expectation for the commercial aftermarket business of up mid single-digit despite more difficult year-on-year compares as we close the year.
Given the strong year-to-date performance we now expect Pratt &amp; Whitneys operating profit growth to come in at the high-end of the previous guidance range of $175 million to $200 million on low single-digit sales growth.
UTC Aerospace Systems recently celebrated the second anniversary of its formation following the July 2012 acquisition of Goodrich.
We are proud of the way that teams come together to integrate the businesses while improving on our already high level of customer service as well as delivering over 350 million in run rate synergies in just over two years.
In the quarter aerospace systems continued to deliver strong results with operating profit up 14% on 7% higher sales.
Commercial OEM sales were up 8% as we continue to benefit from growth in new programs such as 787 and A350.
And commercial aftermarket increased 10% while military sales improved for the first time this year up 2% versus 2013.
Profit growth was driven by higher commercial volume continued synergy traction and the benefit of lower pension expense.
Operating margins increased 110 basis points to 17%.
Commercial spares orders increased 11% in the quarter with strength in both parts and provisioning.
Overall commercial aftermarket sales are up 10% year-to-date.
For the year UTC Aerospace Systems now expects profits of $325 million to $350 million from our previous expectation of $300 million to $350 million on mid to high single-digit sales growth.
Turning to Sikorsky on slide 10 operating profit decreased by 11% and 5% higher sales.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 54 aircraft including 39 based on military platforms and 15 commercial.
The sales increase was driven primarily by development programs as well as higher international military and commercial OE volumes partially offset by lower aftermarket and U.S.
government OE volumes.
The operating profit decrease was driven by unfavorable mix in our military business the impact of lower aftermarket volumes and the absence of prior year favorable contract adjustments which more than offset benefits from pension lower engineering spend and cost reduction actions.
For the balance of the year we anticipate stronger profit growth from higher volume and continue to expect operating profit growth of about $25 million on low single-digit sales growth.
Earlier this month Sikorsky unveiled the S-97 Raider prototype featuring X2 technology.
And we are pleased to announce that the Sikorsky Boeing team was selected to continue development of the Sikorsky Boeing Defiant Demonstrator aircraft with first flight expected in 2017.
We believe our technology is well positioned for the next generation future vertical lift program.
With that let me turn it over to Greg for wrap up.
Thanks Jay.
So in summary I think all we can say is that really solid quarter for UTC and what the difference a quarter mix.
Youll recall the second quarter there were some concerns around organic growth and development program execution.
I hope that we put all that to rest with our performance this quarter where we saw solid organic growth across each of the businesses with good bottom-line conversion and key development programs on track as well as major program awards which will drive top-line growth in our businesses four years to come.
Just take a minute and highlight a couple of the big wins in the quarter.
As you know of course Pratt &amp; Whitney and our Aerospace Systems business supported the maiden flight of the Airbus A320neo aircraft now on September 25th in Toulouse.
All of our systems including the geared turbofan engine performed well on this historic flight.
Were confident that the plane test program will further validate the performance characteristics for reduced noise lower emissions and significantly higher fuel efficiency; and we look forward to the continuation of that successful test program.
Im sure you also all saw the announcement from Gulfstream last week.
Were delighted to see the introduction of the PW800 engine for the new Gulfstream G500 and G600 long-range business jets and yet another platform for our engine business.
The PW800 engine is optimized for long-range business jets ensures the same proven vigorously tested core technology used in Pratt &amp; Whitneys award winning pure power family of commercial engines.
Were equally pleased with the Aerospace Systems content.
Well provide several critical systems for these new business jets.
The Building and Industrial Systems businesses also had a solid third quarter with Otis and CCS delivering 5% and 4% organic sales growth respectively.
As you know the third quarter marked the one year anniversary of the formation of our Building and Industrial Systems business and integration activities continue to progress well.
In the quarter we saw another example of revenue synergies in Australia to Sydney Airport.
At Sydney Airport Otis has had a long-term maintenance contract which allowed CCS to win a contract covering the installation of detectors fire indicator panels and emergency warning systems across one domestic and one international terminal in a five year service contract for maintenance and repair work across the airport site.
BIS does work.
As you can see each of the businesses is well positioned in our core markets were delivering real value to our customers and securing key orders that will drive top-line growth well into the future.
All right.
Take a look at the rest of the year.
As you know the compares will get tougher in the fourth quarter but order and end market trends through Q3 continued to support our expectation a 4% organic sales growth for the full year.
As I mentioned in the start of the call Q3 gains were stronger than previously anticipated and this was driven mainly by U.S.
tax settlement that closed a few weeks earlier than expected moving gain from Q4 to Q3.
We continue to anticipate that net one-time gains or restructuring costs will offset for the year.
And we see the path to the high end of the range of 675 to 685 although there is some pressure given the recent strength of the U.S.
dollar.
For the year we continue to anticipate debt pay-down of $1 billion and we now expect share repurchase of $1.5 billion up from our prior expectation of $1.35 billion.
And we expect the M&amp;A spend will be a little less than $1 billion.
Year-to-date free cash flow is 82% of net income and cash is generally strongest in Q4 as you know.
We expect free cash flow of about 90% of net income for the full year of 2014.
Okay.
Moving on to slide 12 lets take a look at 2015 briefly.
As we move to any year of course there is some positives out there there is some headwinds and a lot of question marks but let me touch on a few of the big ones here.
A couple of things that we know are going to be headwinds next year commercial aero OE margins both at Pratt &amp; Whitney as well as in aerospace systems business.
As we ramp up production on the GTF well see some margin headwind at Pratt.
Well also see a little bit at aerospace systems as production rates increase on the new platforms.
And as you would expect the margins on early units going out the door are pressured with the learning curve.
These are great long-term programs and point to a bright future for both Pratt and our aerospace systems business and are key building blocks for our long-term strategic plan.
On the military side the biggest issue here is the C-17 program.
Pratt as you know supplies the engines of the C-17 for Embraer aircraft.
Volume that will decline this production ends next year.
So that will be a headwind as the F135 Engine production has not yet ramped up.
Looking at the middle column here some questions; first of all what happens in Europe? When do we see a sustainable recovery there? Emerging markets now we put China in that category.
You know they will grow the question is how much will they grow? Pension as you know was also a big driver of UTC and if we were to snap the line at the end of September the discount rate was 4.2% and it will give us a headwind of about a $160 million next year.
As you know every 10 basis points of discount rate change there is nearly $30 million of earnings impact year-over-year.
On the positive side the pension portfolio has performed well and should offset the discount headwind of 4.2.
I put it in the question mark column because its too tough to call when rates will be when you snap the line on December 31st.
We also expect the new mortality rate tables to be introduced in the coming months.
While its great that were all living longer this does increase pension expense by about $180 million a year.
Just not clear yet whether this starts next year or the year after.
So weve got a question market as we sit here today.
In the plus column first of all we think the U.S.
economy will continue to recover even if the phase is slightly rising interest rates.
And our businesses have good solid momentum here.
Commercial aero aftermarkets as well as the business of general aviation should continue to benefit from solid fundamentals and of course cost reduction.
Since 2009 and through the end of the last year weve done some $2.6 billion of restructuring.
Weve got another $375 million this year which will give us a couple of $100 million of tailwind into 2015.
So as always some pluses some minuses and a few question marks as we look towards next year.
As we see here today in this challenging and uncertain macro environment earnings for next year look to be around the mid single-digit mark but its still early and we continue to work on the plan for next year.
Were executing the long-term strategy that we presented earlier this year at our March Investor day.
The portfolio is well positioned to take advantage of the urbanization and commercial aerospace megatrends through the end of the decade and beyond.
The investments that were making today position us for sustainable earnings growth well into the future.
Well continue to leverage our industry leading franchises in global sales and we believe weve got the right strategy right portfolio and weve made the right investments to continue to drive sustainable long-term earnings growth.
With that lets open up the call for questions.
Stephanie? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning gentlemen.
Hi Carter.
Good morning Just a couple quick ones.
First with the decline in the service sales in Europe at Otis.
Was that related to pricing or something else? I think youd said previously that the pricing had kind of stabilized there; did that change given the change in the macro environment there? Yes Carter we still continue to see some pricing pressure there; its moderated from what weve seen in the past couple of years but there is still a little pricing pressure on the portfolio.
I think weve done a pretty good job in terms of stemming the tide there; weve got some new programs out there trying to be a little more aggressive in terms of the retention of the portfolio but still a pretty tough environment on the service side.
Can you characterize the magnitude of the pressure relative to what youve seen in the past couple of years? Yes youre talking less than a penny in the quarter of pressure from pricing.
Okay great.
And then with respect to SEER-14 transition and the order trends that you talked about can you help us think through beyond the order trends in terms of production and shipments and how that impacts Q4 versus Q1? My collection was that you -- this was whenever -- they could be manufactured in Q4 but shipped in Q1.
How are you thinking that thats going to work out as the year-end purchase? Yes I think thats exactly right.
I think we saw a really really strong order growth on the resi side and we dont actually think that thats indicative of whats going on in the market; its probably closer to the 9% growth that we saw on the sales for the quarter.
The plan as we see here today of course is to manufacture all of these SEER-13 units that have been ordered and most of them will sit in inventory through year-end and well ship them into the first and second quarter of next year.
So youll have a more Ill say steady state in terms of what the market really looks like as opposed to 2005 where we had the big like 1 million unit pre-order across the industry and there was huge shipments in the fourth quarter.
Were not planning to do that.
That obviously has an impact on inventory of probably 150 million or so of additional inventory that well see on the books at year end.
But the fact is we dont want to push this out to the distribution if the ruling that its just going to sit on the shelf.
So again good solid order growth rate.
We think again share is with the remaining work that we expected to be.
So there is no big bump this year in the fourth quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks Greg.
Ill pass the mike.
Thanks Carter.
And our next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just on the aerospace businesses I think R&amp;D had been up; company funded about 4% in the first half a lot of that was in UTAS.
And you talked before about flat R&amp;D for the year as a whole.
So I just wondered how is R&amp;D in UTAS in Q3 and how are you thinking about it for the next sort of 12 months.
Yes.
In fact if you think about the plan going into the year was that E&amp;D was going to be relatively flat.
Ill tell you thats not going to happen.
Its probably going to be up about $100 million across all of UTC and really thats the aero units.
The big increase in the quarter that we saw I think was about almost 50 million.
Thats all Pratt &amp; Whitney.
UTAS was relatively flat year-over-year in the quarter but were going to continue to see a little of additional E&amp;D into the fourth quarter but I think about that as 100 million or so year-over-year.
And then again benefit next year as we expected that to go back down to prior years level.
Thanks.
And then at Pratt restructuring the last six months has been very low even though the two minus points you call out in the 2015 outlook both pertain to Pratt.
Again keep in mind Pratt has done a significant amount of restructuring in the last three years.
It did a 20% across the board reduction on SG&amp;A at the beginning of last year.
We continue to take cost out closing for space both in Canada and here in the U.S.
So I think they have done what they needed to do from a cost reduction standpoint in terms of the back office and the factory footprint.
The cost reduction focus today at Pratt is all on the new products going out the door.
So again I think you wont see big restructuring dollars but what were doing is obviously focusing on GTF cost reduction to hit those target costs that we have out there as the production ramps.
Thanks.
And just very quickly you dont call out anything on the balance sheet in the 2015 outlook but I guess share count is a small tailwind exiting this year.
Anything else youd like to say on the balance sheet for 15? Thats a little early; I think Louis will probably talk about it.
The only thing I would point out that is obviously share count will probably increase a little next year absent share buyback because of the -- what we call those? The convertibles MSUs that are out there so well issue I think 11 million shares 1st of July.
Obviously were going to probably have share buyback that will try and offset that but full year share count might creep up a little bit next year.
All right thanks.
Thanks Julian.
Our next question comes from Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
Your line is open.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Rob.
Good morning Rob.
Greg I was wondering if you could carry on the previous thing wondered if you could talk about your plans of debt retirement and any sort of impact that could have on the income statement next year.
So again we have some debt thats coming due I think in May thats of 6% no doubt there.
The thought is that again we probably just refinance that on the short-end with commercial paper.
So again well pay down a $1 billion of debt this year just exactly as we had expected to do.
But next year I wouldnt expect to see further debt reduction.
Okay.
And then on the commercial aerospace aftermarket in the past youve given us a little bit of a breakdown of Pratt in terms of the trends youve seen in the B2500s versus the wide body engine I was wondering if you can give us that again? And also at UTAS I was wondering if you could break out how much the provisioning might have added in the quarter? Thank you.
Sure Rob.
On for spares in terms of the orders the B2500 was up the PW-2000 was up and the PW-4000 was down.
As far as you can see aerospace systems as far as orders both the parts and provisioning were up around the same amount of the overall order rate.
And on the sales basis parts were up mid-teens were up high single-digits and provisioning was up over 20%.
Great.
Thanks Jay.
Youre welcome.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Jeff.
Greg if I heard you correctly so basically you are pointing us towards kind of mid single-digit EPS growth in 2015 obviously there is long list of pluses and minuses.
Just on the ones that you do have dialed in a little bit better I just wanted to make sure I was clear.
On pension are you telling us that asset issues offset discount rate and therefore the head one if there is one is simply on mortality table? Thats exactly right.
I think if we snap the line at the end of the September despite a lousy September in the market the pension performance is going to trump the discount rate down at 42 but snap the line today of course the discount rate is 4%.
So thats Im just going to ignore that for now.
The real issue is whether we adopt mortality tables; were waiting for them to be published.
If they get published this year well probably adopt them.
If they get publish early next year well wait and adopt them in 16.
And your comment about earnings growth next year assumes the mortality tables adopted? It assumes that the mortality tables adopted yes.
So right now it would be a headwind but I put it in question column because again its middle of October as opposed to middle of December.
So whenever we stand up well obviously have some clarity there.
And it sounds like youve got a pretty good dial on Pratt margins or headwinds next year obviously unforeseen challenges on ramps can occur.
But can you give us a little bit more color on what youre pointing us to there kind of what the ramp pressures look like I dont know if you can express it in dollars or margin points or what? Maybe the best way to think of that Jeff is youve got a couple of big known headwinds that is negative engine margin thats on the V2500 as well as the GTF primarily the Neo is that inner service at the end of next year.
And so we know thats out there and its a pretty good size number and as well as the U.S.
military if the C-17 production stops we make good money out of that both on the OE and on the support side of that.
So that kind of goes way next year but you do have some offsets I think obviously the commercial aero aftermarket will be better Pratt Canada continues to get better you got good news probably on the E&amp;D front.
I think right now I would tell you that if Pratt will struggle to grow earnings if at all and thats really the challenge that we have in the next couple of months is to understand.
Pratt right now is certainly there is no growth there and I think that is probably our biggest challenge for next year because of these big headwinds.
And just one more and Ill move on.
So it had the questions in the discussions about aero ramp CapEx and working capital and you have some working capital noise in carrier here at quarter-end would you foresee conversion actually moving back above net income next year or what kind of net income be the reasonable bogie? I think net income is a reasonable bogie.
I think obviously like even this quarter we had 83% of free cash flow to net income we had about 400 million of gains or one-time items that flow through that had no cash impact.
So there is a little bit of noise outside of just the pension.
Obviously pension becomes less of a tailwind next year but also from a cash standpoint there is no cash coming in from pension good news anyway.
So CapEx going to come down a little bit next year.
So all in all I would say I think we ought to be targeting as we typically do free cash flow equal to net income always bumps in the road as we put the plan together.
But Im pretty confident when Louis stands up hell be guiding towards that 100%.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next quarter comes from Joe Nadol with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hey Joe.
Just a couple on Otis to start.
So the guidance for profit growth is lower exclusively because of currency or is there anything else in there? Currency is the biggest driver; its about $50 million year-over-year of headwind.
I think again the pricing pressure that we talked about in Europe earlier continues to be a bit of a headwind but its not the big driver really its primarily FX.
Again I would say Otis is recovering the Florence factory is doing much much better still some room to go there but there is no big operational misses here.
Its really just pricing in Europe I would say in FX.
Okay.
And then on China on Otis China can you tell us about that unit orders year-on-year? Was that also flat or was there a change there? And maybe just provide some color on what youre seeing more qualitatively as we head into Q4 and into next year of course.
So the units were up in the range of mid single digit.
So we continue to see growth in units year-over-year.
The other piece of it is we still see strong award activity and just as a reminder we do not record orders until receive a deposit.
So there has been a little bit slower converting the awards into booked orders from a cash conversion and deposit perspective but the activity still remains pretty solid.
I think keep in mind Joe the backlog still up 14% year-over-year so I think the sales forecast that we have for the year is solid.
And we should continue to see solid growth next year despite what is we all recognize a very or slowing housing market there.
The Chinese government is taking some steps here with reducing down-payments on second homes to try and stimulate some growth there.
But it will be challenging.
It is a 600 000 unit elevator market though just keep in mind its the worlds biggest bio-factory or probably five.
So its a huge market and the opportunity there as you know is going to be on the service side long-term and thats really where were focused.
And I think service will probably grow 20% or so again this year after growing 20% in each of the last two years.
So the team is focused on service and delivering service across the entire region which is again a big challenge but thats where the growth is going to come from.
Okay.
And then Greg I just wanted to clarify one item which is the Pratt guidance I dont think I heard you say this specifically but are you guys going to stop providing guidance or color on spares specifically and just move to aftermarket because I understand longer run as youve moved to 80% type of pick up on service contracts thats going to be maybe the more relevant benchmark but in the near-term the next couple of years just one-off spare sales are still going to be extremely important? We will be transparent on the spares order; we put it out there in the press release not trying to obfuscate anything but the fact is we know spares will continue to be growing or declining as the retirements kick in on the 4000 and the 2000.
So we wanted to put both metrics out there.
The point of this is that longer term we really need to start thinking about commercial aftermarket as opposed to just the spares because as you know the fewer spares we sell the better we are on the FMP contract.
So during the -- for the next couple of years well continue to report both spares and commercial aftermarket; just understand again the point here is there is a transition here in the business model of Pratt that is significant.
And we think again an opportunity for Pratt long-term on the margin side.
Okay very good.
That makes sense.
Thanks.
Thanks Joe.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi Sam.
Just wanted to go back to one question you mentioned about China and the elevator mark and you talked about some of the stimulus.
I thought there are also some movement towards changing some of the worlds in terms of the aftermarket contract that might help the OEM do a little bit more.
So can you talk a little bit about where that stands and what your attachment rate has been in terms of some of the more recent selling there? Yes I think again this is a regulatory change that had started to get rolled out last year its been rolling out province by province.
This is a requirement that the OEMs actually do service on the elevators.
And as a result again you are seeing that the increase that were seeing in our aftermarket attachment.
I think weve got about a 135 000 elevators under service contract in China today versus 110 000 last year.
So were gaining good traction.
The regulatory change that will be slow to be adopted I would say across the country but it is a net positive trend for us.
Okay.
And then just on Sikorsky I was wondering if you could clarify something if you are going to generate $25 million growth in terms of adjusted profits this year it seem to imply a very strong fourth quarter.
I just want to make sure I understand that.
And related just want to -- if you could talk a little bit about the energy market the commercial helicopter demand right now? Yes.
Thats -- okay.
Well lets just talk about Sikorsky; theyve got a big fourth quarter as they typically do.
I mean we have about $2 billion of sales at Sikorsky in the fourth quarter.
So growing -- I dont know theyre down a little bit year-to-date but the $25 million will be well within the reasonable range of what they can deliver for the full year again on a strong fourth quarter delivery.
As far as offshore oil we actually had a conversation with them yesterday about this.
They are seeing some pressure because of offshore oil and with fracking in the U.S.
growing so significantly were seeing less of the oil and gas exploration expansion.
We should drill in the big ramp up in commercial helicopters.
Were going to deliver 40 S92s this year; well probably deliver a couple of more than that next year.
Is there still a market for the helicopters its just were not seeing quite the same growth because of the prevalence of fracking here in the U.S.
Thats great.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just Greg I wanted just to go back to the 15 I guess framework and obviously a big question mark around the magnitude of the OE mix headwind.
And Im wondering can you just put -- give us some sort of working range on that because it is a key to take.
And Im wondering around that will there be an impact from the collaboration of accounting orders primarily just UTS.
And is there a second chance in 15 where you get the OE ramp up and the headwind but not a corresponding reduction in R&amp;D? Well I think again the R&amp;D is almost a natural reduction if you think about it.
Were going to be done on C series flight tests weve got the engine certified the Neo engine certified youve got MRJ right we just rolled that out.
Youre going to see just a natural progression of E&amp;D coming down over the next few years.
Still have some spending out there youve got the Embraer E2 jets youve got your jet.
But should just be a natural roll down in E&amp;D to a more Id say normal level.
As far as the commercial OE the headwind I guess the way to think of that is probably somewhere around $0.10 to $0.12 a share for next year maybe a little more than that but kind of in that range.
Okay.
And is that just key example or is that also including some collaboration accounting? Its not collaboration.
There is some additional [Vs] some new [Vs] out there that werent included in the contract when we bought the shares so those new engines will go out with some negative margin as well.
Okay.
And then just quick one on pension Greg you mentioned possibly adopting the new timetables this year but does that put any incremental funding pressure for the next year if it does get adopted? No I think with the new pension rules that our friends in Congress passed we dont actually have to fund until sometime in 2020.
I would tell you though well probably fund its service cost level for the next few years.
As you know we have sunset the plan the old FAE plan and we took that really tough action back in 2009.
And thats been paying off.
But as we switch to the newer pension scheme the cash balance then probably funding that at a normal more service level going forward.
So you think about $300 million or so of cash next year for pension funding in the U.S and probably a couple of $100 million for international.
Great.
A quick one on the euro rate for [4Q] whats the euro rate youre using for Otis in 15? Well I think were 127 in our current forecast which is right about where we are today.
It can drop a little with 128 yesterday; it came down a little today.
So and I think were in kind of in the ballpark now.
Recall last year going into the year were kind of in the 130 range and for the full year we were at 133 this year.
So there is some certain FX headwind year-over-year going into the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Thanks Greg.
Thanks Nigel.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
Greg one of the things you talked about was the opening or the difference between restructuring and gains; could you refresh us on where you are then for the fourth quarter? Yes.
So we spent in restructuring $243 million not to be terribly precise; $375 million forecast for the year maybe weve got about a $132 million of additional restructuring teed up in the fourth quarter and thats all subscribed; weve got plans in place to spend all of that.
And in fact there could be some additional gains in the fourth quarter; well see what happens with the taxes.
We also got tax expenditures out there that could happen in the fourth quarter which might allow us to do some additional restructuring.
So as we talked about the plan for next year one of the keys is one additional cost reduction restructuring actions can we take to help ensure we have a decent plan going into next year.
So thats where were going to focus on in the next couple of months is looking for additional restructuring opportunities.
And dont be surprised if that 375 goes up a little.
Yes because the reality -- sorry the reality is that without that youd actually do a little bit better than the high-end of your range for the year.
Yes.
So again I dont think there is any -- look were going to stay within the range as I said before we have a path to 685 its a little tougher with this big currency headwind weve got in the fourth quarter but there is still a path out there.
But I would not look for us to significantly over deliver on the basis of additional gains.
No it wasnt gain so much but the absence of -- I get it.
Just to stay for a moment on restructuring could you provide some indication of the successes youve had combining CCS and Otis internationally? I think the biggest -- from a restructuring standpoint the biggest success is I think about Otis has 2 500 branch offices out there.
And the ability to consolidate offices I mean it saves a lot of money.
I think Gerauds got a target about of $300 million of savings from the synergy of collapsing the offices and running the business as not just Otis not fire and security and carrier but as BIS.
So you have one back office you have one management team.
Again sales forces are all different field service is different but you are getting synergies out of the consolidation of the offices.
And then just one last if I may when I look at your tax rate we call it 30% versus your peer there are other large multinationals they all have something that begins with high 20s.
Going forward is it possible that we could see a tax rate in the -- Ill use 28% plus range.
Yes its hard to imagine us absent of course with tax reform power anything is possible.
And again I think thats the real issue.
Our tax rate normally wants to be about 32%.
We do some tax planning that allows us get it to down to around 30% thats primarily reinvesting foreign earnings.
But the fact is the rate wants to probably be around 30 absent to tax extenders.
You get the R&amp;D tax credit and the CSC it looks it will drop the rate about a point.
Were obviously hopeful were going to see something in December from Congress on that to hopefully make permanent the R&amp;D credit because its crazy the way to spend money in anticipation of a tax law change.
So thats an opportunity.
But again as the tax rules become more and more difficult and youve heard of this BEPS project out there where everybody is looking for additional tax revenue the tax authorities around the world are becoming more aggressive.
Weve taken a relatively conservative view on the tax rate we can certainly drive it down for a year two but were viewing this it a little long-term; it probably wants to be 29% to 30%.
Thank you Greg very much for your time.
Thanks Howard.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Hi Greg.
There was a comment in the press release on increased revenue synergies realized in building industrial systems.
I wonder if you can give a little bit of color behind that kind of substantiate the rational of the combination and also give us some color on the hunt for larger industrial M&amp;A.
Thanks.
Yes I think on the BIS revenue synergies obviously really the business has been together exactly a year here as of September 30th.
And we highlighted we had this project in Australia that would be bringing in some fire and security products some CCS product.
Last quarter we talked about project in Hong Kong we were able to bring Otis elevator contract.
In the Middle East weve seen some good pull through where the legacy carrier business has a very good relationship in the Middle East were able to bring in some the Otis elevators and win some relatively larger awards.
But these are all kind of one-off today.
I think the whole focus here of managing this as a BIS organization is to make that more routine as opposed to one-off.
And I think that will take some time were certainly getting some market acceptance today.
And as we talk to developers weve talked to the building owners; they see the benefit of BIS versus the individual businesses going to market.
So weve got a key accounts leader in place today for the U.S.
were working that internationally.
So again there is momentum building here.
I think when Geraud stands up in March next year; he can share some more of the wins with you then.
Are you looking at something like combined capture rates or buying bid rates I mean is that the way youre internally looking at the metrics? Well the metric I actually have seen the exact business review tomorrow with BIS.
Im going to actually see the new metrics that we -- and obviously were looking at this more holistically as opposed to just order rates at Otis or order rates at fire and security or carrier.
Again were trying to protect this from a top down level with the customer.
So Im going to actually see what the new metric is going to be we can come back to you with that.
M&amp;A the hunt for the big fish.
Were still fishing.
Like I said I think back a couple of months ago; the pipeline is not terribly robust.
There are opportunities out there obviously on the commercial side.
Were focused on building out the building side and the system side; continue to look for opportunities there.
But the market has been tough.
As you know equities have grown up quite a bit.
Prices are very difficult.
And even with the recent price correction if you will we havent seen M&amp;A prices correct along with the rest of the equity market.
So were going be disciplined.
Were going to be patient; were going to look for properties in the core.
Obviously the focus is on the commercial side not to say we wouldnt do an aero deal if one came along.
But the pipeline is not terribly full but we continue to spend a lot of time looking at various opportunities.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next quarter comes from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Your line is open.
Yes.
A couple of quick questions Greg.
Pension income I assume was about $0.09 a share this quarter $125 million or so? Yes it sounds about right.
And then I want to follow-up a little bit with Pratt because if Pratt cuts like maybe $50 million of the pension income you still had profits at Pratt up 20 plus million year-over-year despite R&amp;D up $50 million and spares up $7 million I mean that obviously offset some of it.
But it still seems like there had to be some strong performance elsewhere to get the number as good as it was.
So I just wonder if you could provide a little bit of color I mean D2500 engine deliveries are probably a little higher this year than last year so? George we saw a nice growth in Canada I mean that was up low double-digits both in OE as well as the aftermarket so against and also strong with the spare parts business.
So Canada contributed as we saw as I said we also had strong performance under our contracts and we saw a benefit there in the range of about couple of pennies and so those contributed.
And again as we talked about we think its -- we cannot see some benefit from cost reduction and restructuring.
So all that taken together this helps really offset that higher E&amp;D in the quarter as well as margin pressure.
The OE business was up a little bit and the large commercial business but really not a significant factor.
And Jay you said that spares were up combined 7% Pratt Canada and large Pratt was it about equal or both? That was the total aftermarket was up 7% not just the spares but on a sales basis Pratts the large commercial spares were pretty much flat and the spares at Canada were up high-teens.
Okay.
Okay thanks a lot.
Hey George thank you.
Our next question comes from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Doug.
Greg on Otis China you talked about services and thats clearly long-term the target here but as services grow how should we think about margins on that given that in the early couple of years these elevators are under warranty and you dont have the scale you have in Europe or in the U.S.
Yes I think Doug you hit on a key issue with service.
Today the margins on service are not much higher than what they are on the OE side although theyre still very good.
The opportunity obviously long-term as you get root density across China as we build out all of these branch offices and add all these service technicians margins should continue to improve.
Its not clear well ever get to develop country type margins and service but there is still opportunity here.
Again I think the idea here today is to focus more on getting the contracts and servicing the customers as opposed to margin expansion.
That will come naturally over time as we get more productivity from the sales for the field force.
Keep in mind; were adding 1 000 people a year to the service network in China.
And weve got to bring them in weve got to train them weve got to teach them how to service elevators and weve got deploy them out to the field all that is holding down margins in the near-term.
But again still a profitable business in China still good margins just not the kind of margins that we would expect long-term.
And then on Pratt when you look at 2015 and clearly for the geared turbofan the A320neo is the really big deal here.
But when you look at the CSeries how are you looking at in 2015 what are you looking at in terms of the trajectory of deliveries? And if that were to get delayed is that something that would have any kind of a material impact on your either revenues or margins at Pratt? In fact were delivering some engines this year; I think well probably deliver the same number of engines roughly maybe a few more next year.
So its not a big driver of year-over-year margin degradation at Pratt.
And again we had some recent wins we feel pretty good about it the planes up and flying again.
And they should be on track to get this thing in service by the end of next year.
The bigger ramp will obviously come on the Airbus A320neo.
Again there will be huge volumes by 2017 where we could be delivering 500 plus engines a year from zero today.
So the CSeries itself youre not -- thats probably not -- the timing on that is probably not much of an issue for next year? We dont see it as a big year-over-year driver as we sit here today.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Doug.
Our final question comes from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning Greg Jay.
Good morning.
Just a quick one regarding update on the synergies you mentioned back to Howards question.
The Goodrich synergy if you remind us where theyre tracking to is in the number still I think $500 million that you had previously indicated and also if you could also give us an update on CCS synergies too? Yes.
So if you think about the synergies I think through last year wed recognized about $270 million or so synergies is another $100 million plus this year.
Were on track probably next year to deliver close to another $100 million of synergies.
And Im sure there are more synergies beyond the $500 million but again I think talking about synergies versus typical normal cost reduction and other restructuring activities its very difficult as we get passed about the third or fourth year of the acquisition.
So well talk about it this year and well give -- well talk about the tailwind next year.
And I think again well hit that $500 million by the end of next year and then we are just going to keep going and continue to drive margins up.
You can call it synergies you can call cost reduction you can call it just what we do at UTC but were going to continue to drive margins up beyond that whats the benefit were going to get from the $500 million of synergies.
In terms of the BIS synergy we talked about $300 million number not a big number this year maybe $50 million of savings between what were seeing in the segments.
And again the part of the issue where we still keep Otis and CCS separate from a reporting standpoint so when we close a CCS office that restructuring savings may show up there if we close an Otis office it shows up in that segment.
But again that will accelerate in the coming years as we continue with the consolidation process.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
Thanks Greg.
Okay.
Thanks everyone for listening today.
We look forward to seeing you at our Annual Investor and Analyst meeting on December 11th in New York where Louis will give guidance complete guidance for 2015.
The IR team will be around throughout the rest of the day to take your questions.
So thank you very much and have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude todays conference.
You may all disconnect.
And everyone have a great day.
Good evening and welcome to the United Technologies Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes President and Chief Executive Officer; Akhil Johri Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Paul Lundstrom [ph] Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTCs website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and one-time items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTCs SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to two questions per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself into the queue and we will answer as time permits.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Okay.
Thank you and good evening everyone.
I appreciate everyones flexibility in accommodating our changed schedule tonight for the snow storm which is quickly coming upon us.
Let me start out and talk just briefly about 2014.
Then I am going to hand it to Akhil but as you can see from the press release that went out earlier this evening 2014 is largely in line with the expectations we laid out last month at our investor event in New York.
Before we get to the results so I would like to take a minute and introduce or reintroduce Akhil Johri our new CFO.
Akhil has been on the job for a few weeks now but you will recall he is a 26 year veteran of United Technologies recently out of sabbatical as CFO of our Pall Corporation.
He knows the business as well he is highly respected both within UTC and externally.
Needless to say we are excited to have him back on the team.
Akhil and Paul will take you through the results and I will come back with some thoughts on the year and 2015 before we get into the Q&amp;A.
Akhil you have the floor.
Thanks Greg.
Its a pleasure to be back.
UTC reported 2014 earnings per share of $6.82 up 10% versus the past year and up 12% excluding the impact of restructuring and one-time items.
Sales of $65 billion included 4% organic growth with all five segments growing organically for the year.
Segment operating margins expanded by 90 basis points to 16.6% reflecting the benefit of volume leverage and cost control at CCS along with lower pension expense synergies and restructuring benefits at Pratt and UTC Aerospace Systems.
Free cash flow to net income was 90% for the year as we had indicated in December and we completed $1.5 billion of share repurchase.
Moving on to slide two top line growth continues.
Organic sales were up 4% in the fourth quarter.
Recall that Q4 of 2013 was our most difficult compare so we feel really good about 4% organic as we exit 2014.
In the commercial businesses we saw 8% growth in the Americas as the U.S.
economic recovery continues.
While Europe was up slightly Asia grew 7% but continued growth in China their sales were up 10%.
Growth in commercial Aero OE was offset by lower commercial aftermarket sales at Pratt and Sikorsky.
Military Aerospace was up 7% led by the timing of OEM deliveries at both Sikorsky and Pratt partially offset by a weaker aftermarket across the segments.
Taking closer look at our end markets on slide three and just as a reminder we will talk to the commercial business orders on a constant currency basis as we usually do.
So overall trends remain consistent with our expectations throughout the portfolio.
In our commercial businesses we continue to see good traction in North America.
U.S.
consumer sentiment reached its highest level in nearly eight years in December on lower gas prices and better wage and job prospects.
ADI trends remain positive and the outlook for commercial construction continues to be encouraging.
And this is evident at Otis where North America new equipment orders were up 20% and 40% for the year.
At CCS orders for U.S.
fire and security and U.S.
commercial HVAC equipment was strong up 18% and 12% respectively.
U.S.
residential HVAC orders were down slightly year-over-year following a very strong Q3 while sales were up 9%.
Europe was soft again in the quarter with commercial HVAC orders down 9% and Otis new equipment orders down 3%.
As you saw on Thursday the ECB announced a significant new quantitative easing program aimed stimulating economic activity in the region.
In China Otis new equipment orders were up 2% in the fourth quarter and finished up 6% for the full year.
New equipment backlog remains strong up 13% versus the prior year.
While we expect overall economic output in China to moderate it should still outpace global GDP and our building and industrial systems businesses continue to be well positioned in the region.
As a reminder however China domestic sales represent just about 6% of total UTC sales.
Moving to Aerospace revenue passenger miles continue to grow at slightly above the long-term trend rate.
And airline profitability remains strong.
At UTC Aerospace Systems commercial aftermarket sales were up 5% driven by continuing strength in spares.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney total commercial aftermarket sales were down 6% in the quarter on a tough prior year compare and in-line with our expectations.
Taking a look at fourth quarter earnings on slide four total reported sales increased 1% as 4% organic growth was partially offset by three points of unfavorable foreign exchange.
Segment operating profit was up 10% and operating margins increased by 120 basis points including the benefits from pension.
And we saw profit growth and margin expansion in all segments during the quarter.
Earnings per share of $1.62 were up 3% and included a $0.26 net charge from restructuring and other one-time items.
Thats about $0.24 related to the German tax matter that Greg discussed last month and $0.09 of restructuring that was partially offset by $0.07 of one-time gains in the quarter.
Recall that the fourth quarter of 2013 had $0.09 of net restructuring charges.
Absent the impact of these items in both years earnings per share were up 13%.
Free cash flow in the quarter was 119% of net income.
Capital expenditures were $557 million as we continued to invest for the ramp up in the commercial aerospace.
We acquired $405 million of stock under our share repurchase program and we made nearly $300 million in voluntary pension plan contributions in the quarter.
One other item to note in Q4 the impact from sudden significant strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against most currencies created a translation FX-related EPS headwind of about $0.04 entirely wiping out the small benefit we had seen in the first three quarters.
The strengthening of the U.S.
dollar has an even larger impact as we look at 2015.
As you can see on slide five the U.S.
dollar has continued to strengthen not just against the euro but against most of the currencies as well.
In fact at a $1 10 euro which is a little less than todays rates we have almost $0.25 of headwind that wasnt contemplated in the initial EPS guidance that we discussed back in December.
The incremental negative sales impact from translation FX is expected to be around $1.5 billion.
We also saw a further dip in the global discount rates for pension expense.
On our measurement date of December 31 the U.S.
discount rate was 3.9% about 30 basis points lower than expected adding to another $0.06 of EPS headwind net of slightly better asset returns and $200 million of cash contribution to the U.S.
pension plan.
So all together $0.30 or so of new non-operational headwind.
Based on this we are updating our 2015 sales and earnings expectations as you can see on slide six.
As always we remain focused on what we can control.
We are now targeting $3 billion of share repurchase at the high end of our prior range.
We will take additional cost actions and at the midpoint of the new range we now have no contingency.
Together these actions should offset half of the $0.30 headwind.
So we now expect EPS of $6.85 to $7.05 on sales of about $65 billion to $66 billion down from our previous expectation of $7 to $7.20 EPS on sales of $66 billion to $67 billion.
However to make it clear nothing has fundamentally changed in the health of the underlying businesses.
Just as we told you in December strong operating leverage across the business should still allow us to deliver segment earnings growth of $0.57 at the mid-point excluding the impact of foreign exchange and pension head winds in 2015 and with no growth at Pratt.
That's 8% growth operationally and we will work to rebuild some contingency as we move throughout the year.
With that let me turn it over to Paul to take you through the segment results.
Okay thanks Akhil.
We are now on page seven.
Otis sales improved 5% in the quarter at constant currency led by double-digit new equipment growth noticed most notably in China and the Americas.
Service sales were up slightly.
Overall foreign exchange translation was a five point headwind to the top line in the quarter.
Foreign exchange was also a profit headwind a full six points.
Operationally Otis performance in Q4 was solid with operating profit up 7% at constant currency.
Profit growth in the quarter was driven by contributions from higher volume and productivity initiatives most notably from strong performance in the Americas and in Asia.
We did see continued pricing pressure in the quarter both in Europe service and in China.
New equipment orders were up 12% in the quarter at constant FX.
Asia was up 16% driven by a large order in Singapore the Thomson Line transit project and we saw low single digit growth in China.
New equipment orders continued to be strong in the Americas where orders were again up double-digit and for the second year in a row we closed the year with double-digit increases in new equipment backlog.
For the full year operating profit was up 4% or about $100 million at constant currency on 6% higher organic sales.
FX translation for the year had a two point unfavorable impact on both sales and profit.
Turning to page eight Climate Controls and Security had good traction in the fourth quarter with 5% organic sales growth.
We saw strength in the Americas with residential HVAC and foreign security product businesses both reporting high single-digit growth and commercial HVAC up mid-single digit.
Outside of the U.S.
EMEA grew low single-digit and Asia was up slightly.
Commercial refrigeration was up mid-single-digit while Transicold was up high single-digit driven by solid growth in container and North America Truck trailer.
At constant currency profit was up 6% in the quarter driven by contribution from organic volume growth.
FX translation represented three points of headwind in the quarter.
Margin was up 50 basis points from prior year to 15.7% continuing the CCS margin expansion momentum.
CCS global equipment orders were strong up 11% in the quarter driven largely by Transicold which saw more than 50% growth.
Global commercial HVAC equipment orders were up mid-single-digit driven by the Americas.
Orders for global fire and security products finished the year strong and were again up high single-digit based on strength in the Americas and global fire and security field orders were up 5% with growth in all geographies including Europe.
For the full year operating profit was up 10% at constant currency on 3% organic sales growth achieving record margins of 17% up 130 basis points from prior year.
As Akhil mentioned we do see significant headwind from foreign exchange both at CCS and at Otis.
Geraud [ph] will come back in March to talk about specific guidance for those two units.
Moving to Pratt &amp; Whitney on slide nine Pratt delivered solid results in Q4 with 12% operating profit growth despite continued investment in E&amp;D and a 2% sales decline.
In the quarter 4% in military engines was more than offset by a 6% lower commercial aftermarket.
Recall that in Q4 2013 the commercial aftermarket business was particularly strong up 24%.
Operating profit growth was driven by favorable pension and restructuring benefits.
The quarter also benefited from better aftermarket contract performance which helped offset lower aftermarket volume in the quarter.
Margins were up 170 basis points to 13.8%.
For the year Pratt delivered organic sales growth up 2% driven by mid-single-digit growth in the commercial aftermarket.
Incremental investments in E&amp;D were more than offset by a tailwind from pension restructuring savings and a stronger aftermarket both from higher volume and better contract performance.
These led to operating profit growth of $200 million for Pratt with the 140 basis points of margin expansion.
This is at the high end of the original guide.
Turning to slide 10 UTC Aerospace Systems continued its strong momentum growing profit 17% on 5% higher organic sales in the quarter.
Commercial OEM sales were up 7% and commercial aftermarket sales increased 5% with strong growth in spares even on a difficult compare.
Similar to Pratt the commercial aftermarket had a very strong finish to 2013 which led to difficult Q4 comparison.
Military sales continued to be soft with the military OEM essentially flat and a low-single digit decline in the aftermarket.
Profit growth was driven by strong conversion on the incremental volume integration synergies and the benefit of lower pension expense.
Operating margins increased 180 basis points to 17.6%.
For the full year sales were up 7% and operating profit was up $327 million or 15% resulting in 130 basis points of margin expansion in-line with our original expectations.
The strong full year organic growth of 6% reflects the UTC Aerospace Systems' position in a large and growing commercial aerospace segment.
The earnings growth and margin expansion followed the continued successful integration of Goodrich which is now yielding run rate savings of $400 million with line-of-sight visibility to $500 million.
Turning to Sikorsky on page 11 operating profit increased 38% on 10% higher sales.
Sikorsky shipped a total of 72 aircraft in the quarter including 57 military platforms and 15 commercial.
Overall aircraft shipments were down five compared to the prior year but aircraft completion volume that's the aircraft customization that occurs following base line aircraft delivery those completions were up significantly driven primarily by international military programs.
We also saw growth in our development programs as a number of recently awarded programs including the U.S.
Presidential helicopter have begun their development ramp.
The operating profit increase was driven by the impact of higher international military volume better mix on commercial OE volumes and favorable contract adjustments partially offset by the drop through from lower commercial aftermarket volume and unfavorable mix in the military aftermarket.
For the year strong international military and commercial OEM sales coupled with the ramp of funded development programs drove sales 6% higher at Sikorsky.
Adjusted for restructuring and special items operating profit of $699 million was up 9%.
With that let me turn it back to Greg for the wrap up.
Okay thanks Paul.
So all-in-all pretty good year for UTC.
As you think about the business it has delivered solid margin expansion to 16.6% and we grew EPS 10% despite a slower than expected global economic environment.
Beyond the financial results we also continue to achieve significant milestones on development programs and to secure key wins for the future.
With the Goodrich integration now largely complete we recently announced the elimination of the propulsion and aerospace systems' organization.
Pratt and Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems will continue as standalone business units but now reporting directly to me.
This new streamlined structure better positions us to serve customers and to focus on ensuring a successful entry into service and production ramp up of our Geared Turbofan engine and the numerous aircraft systems designed and developed by the UTAS team.
At Pratt and Whitney the GTF engine completed FAA certification for the Airbus A-320 Neo platform on December 19th.
The certification marks a key milestone for the engine and the A-320 Neo program which remains on schedule to enter into service in the fourth quarter of this year.
And we continue to make good progress on the more than 35 new system programs underway at UTC aerospace systems.
In 2014 we achieved major milestones including the entry into service on the Boeing 787-9 and the certification of the A-350.
At Sikorsky another major win in the quarter.
India's Navy selected Sikorsky to fulfill the services maritime helicopter requirement and negotiations are currently underway with the Indian Navy to procure 16 S-70B Sea Hawk helicopters with an option for eight additional aircraft along with the complete logistics support and training program.
This represents a major step forward for Sikorsky in an important growth market and positions the business well for future opportunities there.
The Building and Industrial Systems businesses had another solid quarter with both OTIS and CCS delivering 5% organic sales growth.
We feel really good about the progress we've seen in both segments.
CCS organic growth has accelerated while delivering 290 basis points of margin expansion since 2012 and OTIS profits are growing again after a couple of very difficult years.
So good momentum across the board that's going to allow us to deliver solid organic growth in 2015.
The growth rate exiting the year gives us confidence in our sales assumption of 3% to 5% organic growth in 2015 and we expect continued recovery in our North American markets slight growth in Europe and moderated but still solid growth in China and Asia.
As Akhil mentioned we do have two headwinds this year that worsened since we spoke in December.
And as much as I like to I can't control the FX or the discount rates Akhil hasn't figured out how to help me with that yet.
As usual we'll do as much as we can to mitigate these headwinds and that includes leaning out the corporate structure and additional share buyback.
Lastly we continue to make progress with our portfolio review and as I promised we'll discuss this in more detail over the coming two months.
With that let's go ahead and open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Hey Doug.
When you described the changes in guidance for the year can you walk through how that rolls out across the four different businesses compared to what you talked about in December? Sure Doug.
I think for a more precise discussion we'll wait for the President to stand up and talk to you in March but conceptually you know where this falls right.
The FX headwind is largely going to be in the BIS space more heavily towards OTIS which has 80% of its sales internationally and the pension headwind is going to be more in the aerospace space where it will be 40% or so at Pratt and the rest around UTAS and a little bit on the commercial side.
The good news $0.15 which offsets half of that $0.30 headwind is going to be spread across on the cost reduction side across all the businesses a little bit and at the corporate office as well.
While the share count reduction benefit will be more at the corporate office as youll see a lower share count number.
And if you look at the operational improvement part of this so you're looking for -- and I am not sure how much of that $0.15 is operational improvements but could you describe the kinds of actions you're taking that perhaps you hadn't thought about back in December.
You might have thought about but weren't signing up for yet? I think obviously some of the announcements that have gone out over the last couple weeks were all part and parcel to this trend to lean the corporate organizations as well as lean out some of the structures that we have on the aerospace side specifically at the aerospace systems group.
You'll recall Doug at aerospace systems we had two guys running the business Dave Gitlin and Mike Dumais.
We've consolidated all of that under Mike.
Hell be consolidating all the functional responsibilities over the coming weeks as well.
So we'll be taking out a significant amount of cost as we go through that.
And obviously eliminating Alains organization takes a lot across out at the corporate level some of which got allocated down to Pratt and UTAS.
So all of this really focused on leaning out the corporate and the overhead organization.
But does that mean that most of this benefit is occurring on the aerospace side as opposed to the BIS side? BIS has already been working on that as you know over the last two sort of integrations that you will first fire and security into carrier and then now OTIS with CCS.
There has been a significant reduction in the overhead and the management structures at those companies.
Yeah if you think about it Doug Geraud has done the commercial side what we're just doing now on the aero side like we've taken out over 100 executives first when we put fire and security in to Carrier put that together under CCS and then as we put the OTIS business under the BIS banner again more and more executives.
And so Geraud has already leaned out the overhead structure in those businesses and that's why you see the margins where you do for BIS why you see that very very strong margins a lot of that is just cost reduction.
Okay great thank you.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks good afternoon.
Welcome back Akhil.
Thanks Joe.
Actually just want to continue down that line there on the PAS elimination I guess of that structure.
Greg a couple of years ago when this was -- this organization was -- stood [ph] up I thought it was advertised as a cost saving measure and now its being advertised again as a cost saving measure when it goes away.
I am just wondering if you could explain a little more philosophically which is it? And then you mentioned BIS as well.
I am wondering if there is any larger scale changes that we might -- that might be possible on these lines in that organization as well? Well lets talk about PAS.
I mean origin is this is only about a couple of years when we put Goodrich and Hamilton Sundstrand together.
This is July of 2012 the idea was we put PAS in to oversee the integration of those businesses and to drive the $500 million of synergy benefit that we were expecting on the acquisition.
And I would tell you for the most part that is complete.
We have got about $400 million of the $500 million done we have got line of sight to the next $500 million and more beyond that.
So I think Alain and that whole team did exactly what we asked them to do in terms of driving cost reduction across.
Not -- and it wasnt really just the aerospace system we also did significant cost reduction at Pratt again leaning out the structure of Pratt to taking about a 20% reduction in the overheads at Pratt and Whitney over the last couple of years.
So they did exactly what we asked them to do but again time changes things and today with that mission largely complete I thought it was best to have Paul from Pratt and to have Mr.
Gitlin report directly to me.
It also gave me the opportunity to take a guy like Mike Dumais who did a wonderful job running his half of the aerospace systems and bring him into the corporate strategy group and let him help me with this portfolio analysis.
So this is a win-win I think again leaner organization more focused I get more line to sight to whats going on in the business and the businesses get less overhead cost to worry about.
As far as BIS book again I would just go back to what I just said.
I think Geraud has been doing what we are doing on the aerospace side for the last three years there they started in 2011 where he put F&amp;S into Carrier again significant overhead reductions.
The whole idea here is again not to have a lot of overhead.
We dont need that.
We want to decentralize the organization we want decision making close to the customer and not at the corporate center.
And my job is not to tell these guys how to run the business.
These guys know the customer.
Each one of the guys at OTIS at Carrier at Fire and Security they are out there on the front line still.
They just dont have that same overhead structure above them and I think Geraud would tell he has got line of sight to lot more clearly as to whats going on in the business as a result of what he has already done.
Okay.
And second question a major event this year is the ramp up of more work on GTF and you mentioned you got certified on Airbus.
Can you I guess speak about the industrial part of the ramp up thats happening this year and maybe give some context as to when you really feel like you can say were heading where we should be on the learning curve from a manufacturing standpoint? And then secondly from a cash flow standpoint if there is anything we should know about the profile as you ramp up throughout the year.
Will that impact the company cash flow? So Joe let me just put it very simply.
We are not going to be done until we are done.
But this year well build about 85 engines for the Airbus Neo platform.
Next year will be about 220.
We will double again in 2017.
And so again every time we double the engine production we are coming down a learning curve.
I think by the time we get to about the 250th engine which is towards the middle of next year well be pretty close -- we will be closing in on target cost not quite there.
By the time we exit 17 I think well be at or should be at target cost or somewhere close to that.
So lot of work to do between here and there.
As I said were going to get additional negative engine margin this year next year and the following year and then the run rate actually levels out because the number of engine levels out and we continue to come down the cost curve.
So we just did a whole review of the production readiness level at Pratt over the last week had some of the best folks around the business to take a look to make sure we are on track and well its not without risk.
And there is a lot to do.
We got high confidence that the Pratt guys will get around this and were going to be able to meet the production needs at Airbus as well as Bombardier as well as at Mitsubishi as well as with Embraer in 2018.
I mean a lot of work to do but a good process in place to make sure that we are going to get there at the right cost.
Just one minor correction Joe I think Greg said about 80 plus Neo engines its actually more like 40 something and -- for this year.
And then the other point on your cash flow I think there is clearly going to be some stress as you have seen in our numbers for the last year or two.
The Aero ramp-up does add to the CapEx number which has been above depreciation by a significant amount and that the number we watch very carefully.
Obviously you know our gold standard is to be 100% of net income as free cash flow and last year 14 was not there.
We still have some pressure in 15 as a result of that but we are going to work very hard to take out some other things like focusing on inventory and working capital to try and manage some of the CapEx requirements that exist in the business from the Aero ramp up.
Thank you.
Thanks Joe.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone.
Hi Jeff.
Hi.
Just on the cost side Greg or Akhil but thinking about raw materials cost you didnt address that at all and I was thinking in parts of your business you could getting some substantial relief.
So maybe any color there and you know either hedges or something that are kind of delaying potential positive impacts? Yes sure Jeff.
Probably the biggest item is copper where you would expect a significant saving there.
We do hedge -- we are hedged about 75% of our 2015 requirements at over $3 $3.05 if you will.
So there is really limited impact that we will see in the later part with the significant reduction in the copper that has come about lately.
But there is definitely going to be benefit on the oil side the lower fuel cost both for jet fuels that are used by our aerospace companies as well as in the large number of trucks and service vehicles that we had we should see some benefits there.
We estimate maybe $50 million to $75 million of benefit which probably towards the later part in the year help us build a little bit of our contingency back.
On the other hand you know customers see the same papers that we do and the same reports that we do and there is likely to be probably a little more pressure on the pricing side because they will expect some of this to be passed through to them.
So we have got to balance both those things which is why we have not reflected that potential savings in our roadmap that you saw on page six.
On the other key notes steel and aluminum you are maybe not hedged per se but are you kind of indexed some contractual lock in there that you dont get any significant immediate benefit also? Yeah there is actually a little bit of headwind aluminum right now.
Iron ores and steel prices have come down but we dont really have a lot of hedges out there.
So we will see a little bit of benefit on steel a little bit of headwind at aluminum which should pretty well offset each other I would think for the year.
No I was just wondering just back to where the prior question ended kind of on cash flow and CapEx.
Now looks like you actually throttled the CapEx back pretty hard relative to the annual expectation here.
Can we go down from this 1.7 level in 2015 and how do we think about working capital in 2015? I think that we have been looking at about $2 billion number for CapEx going into the last year.
I think the folks on the businesses to do a pretty good job of reducing that and trying to move some of that out obviously puts a little bit of pressure on the 1.7 number that we have got this year but we are not done.
I think again the CapEx investments will be what it needs to be.
I think the bigger opportunity as I think about cash well it goes back to working capital and it goes back to inventory.
We have got almost $10 billion of inventory out there.
The churns are not spectacular and the focus has to be on improving churns and its batten [ph] our factories.
I would tell you our factories are world class.
When they get the inventory they can move it very quickly through the assembly and test process.
The issue is in the supply base where we dont have suppliers that all deliver 100% on time with a 100% perfect quality.
As a result we have a lot of buffer inventory at every level of the production process.
So as -- one of the other benefits of eliminating the past structure the operations is now going to report directly to me and we have got a team under Benot Brossoit who has very been focused on supplier process improvement and we are going to go after this inventory reduction at its root cause which I would tell you is supplier performance.
If we get our suppliers at the same level of delivery and quality as our own factories we can reduce inventory by a significant amount.
And its not at this year and next year the next several years.
But we're going to work at it.
And I think that will help us get back to that 100% of free cash flow net income despite where there is a little bit of elevated CapEx investment this year.
Great thank you.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Hey Sam.
Some of the additional cost reductions that you have talked about does it change the plan in terms of the $300 million worth of restructuring offset by $300 million in gains.
Does that dynamic change at all during the year? No Sam.
We don't think so.
We still think restructuring will be about $300 million for the year and probably ratably across the quarters $75 million each quarter if you will.
Okay and then in total what is your assumption about Europe right now? I know Greg said slight growth but is it different than it was in December and it's just -- is it same and it's just a translation issue or have you assumed a slower growth at this point? Well despite the Greek elections on Sunday I think generally we think Europe will be probably a little bit better with the quantitative easing that Mr.
Dragi has initiated on top of the much lower fuel prices gas and oil.
There is a natural stimulus that we ought to see in Europe this year that we didn't really see six weeks ago when we talked about it so.
We say up slightly.
It could be better.
I mean we have pockets of bursts [ph] that was very good last year and the fire product side in Europe was very good.
The service side not as good.
I think overall I think we'll get better -- Europe will get better this year than what we had expected.
So that maybe a little bit of upside.
Okay and then last question.
The CR-13 and you just talked about inventory.
Was there any sort of build in terms of the last of the manufacturing what you could do this year and does that all go back out in 2015.
Can you size that at all? Yeah no I think Greg mentioned this at the last call or the last meeting about a $150 million worth of inventory build-up associated with CR-13.
As you know the regulations would say that we cannot produce anymore CR-13 in 2015.
So all that inventory was in our balance -- was on our balance sheet at the end of December and will be sold through the early part of this year we expect.
Yeah I think that's just for the -- those parts of the country that cant -- we can't sell CR-13.
Right exactly.
So but yeah its not significant.
I think again we'll put a play out here in the first four or five months of the year and we'll go back to normal.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Sam.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hey good evening guys.
And welcome back Akhil.
Thanks Carter.
Just a couple of end market kind of color questions for you.
The first on the military softness you called out at UTAS any color you can give us on where you saw that and I know the expectations around military have been kind of -- we've been kind of little short in both last year and some of the recent quarters.
Can you give us some color on where that came from? Not a huge deal of impact frankly.
I think both OEM and the aftermarket and military side for UTAS was down low-single digit.
So it's really not -- nothing dramatic nothing out of the ordinary.
As we look ahead at next year Carter I think the feeling is that the aftermarket might be actually slightly better maybe up low-single digit for UTAS while the OEM side will probably be down low-single digit.
So I think in balance we still feel it's kind of at treading water if you will nothing either positive or negative to talk about it.
Yeah in Q4 OEM was essentially flat military aftermarket was down a little bit.
Okay and with respect to Sikorsky if you were to give us a kind of real-time assessment on how things look there on the commercial Hi-Lo side given obviously the anticipated weakness in oil and gas.
And what the expectation is there for spares and what are you seeing and any color there would be helpful? And maybe just Ill give you a high level Akhil can tell you the right numbers.
But essentially we're seeing some softness on the S-92 deliveries as you would expect like we got about 40 this year we had expected to deliver.
There is a little bit of pressure there some of the exploration companies are scaling back.
I just mentioned though the 80 more than 80% of the use of the helicopters for offshore oil is for current production It's not for exploration.
So you're talking on the margin yeah there maybe a few aircraft that will be little bit more difficult to sell.
But Mick and team I think are on top of it down there.
Aftermarkets been little slower on the commercial side than we expected.
Part of that's because the reliability of the S-92 has been so good.
And the other part I think is just cash conservation by some of the operators.
Yeah no there are some as you would imagine a little bit of concern about the oil and gas related Hi-Lo market as you said.
But I know Mick and team are committed to delivering on their plan and they are not going to let small things like this come in the way.
Great thanks guys.
Thanks Carter.
Our next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just a question on the balance sheet.
I guess one of the advantages of having a very large balance sheet is that you can use it to offset surprise headwinds.
And I guess if I just pro forma that $0.15 of tailwind or offset in to the three buckets buyback is $0.05 of that.
So I just wanted to check what the urgency to use the balance sheet this year to drive earnings is? I dont think there is any urgency other than the fact that were not going to sit still and just take and let these cost headwinds tank the year.
I think again were doing what we can to offset those.
And the $3 billion we talked about that back in December we said $2 billion to $3 billion I would tell you was range [ph] remaining low without I would say a very robust M&amp;A pipeline I guess is pretty easy to commit to the $3 billion today.
And again I wouldnt suggest that there is a big use of our balance sheet.
We got a $92 billion balance sheet.
Obviously we have a room to do a lot more than an additional $1 billion if we wanted to.
Were not going to commit to anything more than the $3 billion today but it remains an option if again share price remains low and the acquisition pipeline doesnt show up.
The key thing that Julian just to keep in mind as Greg laid out very clearly we are interested in M&amp;A.
We would like to do some transactions.
The valuations sort of prevent us from going too far out on that today.
Greg very clearly laid out the criteria that we look at M&amp;A transactions with IRR or double-digit accretive in year two and neutral to ROIC for UTC overall by year four.
Those are tough criteria in todays market but at the same time we want to keep our flexibility and keep our balance sheet optionality available and not go much higher on share buyback till we completely conclude on the M&amp;A environment.
Understood thanks and then just on commercial aero aftermarket as you said the trends in Pratt and UTAS on sales were both sort of lower than the high single-digit growth guidance for 2015.
So how quickly do you think youll snap back to that high single-digit trend? Is it something you could see at the beginning of the year and any impact youre seeing on airline behavior on aftermarket from oil? Yes at this point I dont think the trends were any different than what we expected.
Remember Q4 last year was extremely strong.
Pratt spares if I remember correctly were up 24% and the UTAS spares were up significantly as well.
So on that -- on 17% Paul tells me.
So on top of those strong numbers UTAS grew 5% and Pratt was down 6% or 5%.
So given that its really not a change in our expectations.
We still expect mid-single digit type of growth at Pratt and high single-digit growth in the aftermarket at UTAS.
So I wouldnt call it a changing trend.
With regard to customer behavior obviously the expectation is that certainly on the Pratt side with the airline profitability being what it is we would hope for a little more content per visit when the engines actually come back and perhaps a little bit more provisioning and inventory build-up at the airlines and that should help us a little bit but its too early to call that.
Right thank you.
Thanks Julian.
Next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you and let me join in welcoming you coming you back Akhil.
So commercial aftermarket could you give us what the orders were in the fourth quarter for Pratt and UTAS? How much you think that might have been impacted by price hike and are you seeing anything in terms of impact from lower fuel prices yet? The answer to your last question not much yet on the Pratt side.
The spares orders were down about 8% or so for the quarter and that is again no surprises there.
Within that however Id remind you that V2500s were actually up mid-single digit and decline was in what has been a secular issue for us which is the legacy engines the PW2000 and PW4000 where retirements are hurting and the surplus parts market is hurting our space business a little bit.
So no change there.
The trends continued to be where they are.
As I said earlier we do expect some benefit from the oil price reduction.
But it's not yet showing in our number and maybe at some point we'll get some benefit there.
On the UTAS side again the spares were -- orders were up year-over-year probably a little lower than what the sales were up.
So I think we are still on track there for the high single-digit growth.
Thank you and you mentioned that OTIS orders in China were up 2%.
As you are probably aware of the decline the monthly decline in residential home prices has kind of been accelerating through December.
What are you seeing in terms of tone? You talked I think in December of looking for 10% growth in constant currency in new elevator sales at OTIS in China.
Is that still realistic? Yeah Cai.
It's certainly within the realm of possibility.
If you think about it backlog at OTIS will end the year up about 13% year-over-year and we will convert probably 60% or 70% of that into sales.
So as we start the year in a flat market you would expect kind of 7% or 8% kind of growth in OTIS China.
We'll see.
Again there is obviously pressure on home prices.
We continue to see that which is really held orders down for the years especially the back half of the year.
But again I think there is a pathway towards double-digit if we see any recovery.
We're seeing some stimulus measures take hold seeing some bank lending regulations ease a little bit to try and again reinvigorate the property markets.
So I wouldn't give up on this.
I think there is still opportunity there but again just given the strong backlog when we end the year I feel pretty optimistic we're going to continue see growth in China.
Thanks so much.
The next question comes from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
Greg I want to kind of be a little bit high level.
There is sort of two things.
One is restructuring and the second is capital spending.
How do you think about the two of those as you put them together to improve the profitability of the various business units? Well the margin expansion cost reduction is part of the DNA of UTC and that's not going to change I dont care who is sitting in my chair.
Thats just the way we do business and the businesses are always focused on down taking cost out.
And so I think as we go into the year with this $300 million placeholder we've got plenty of opportunities to do cost reduction and probably more opportunities then there is funding as we start the year.
But again we always find ways to fund the really good ideas.
So we are going to continue on this path of cost reduction.
Thats just the way we do business here.
As far as CapEx we have been I would say overconsuming here but again it's all part of this I call the reseeding of the commercial engine business with new GTF engines and as a result we're going to have to catch up a little bit of the spending and that's not just Pratt.
It's also across the aerospace we have 50 new aircraft systems going into production here in the next few years requires a lot of capital.
So we're in a secular site [indiscernible].
CapEx is just naturally going to be high it will come down.
But frankly we're not capital constrained.
We were going to fund what we need to from a CapEx standpoint we were going to fund what we need to from a restructuring standpoint because they all have very very solid returns and we've got a good process internally where all of these capital appropriations as well as restructuring programs they come through Akhil finance organization they are reviewed they are validated and I think we're making solid investment decisions whether it's restructuring or CapEx.
I get it.
I mean it's really to drive the returns and improve the performance for competitive position.
The follow up I'm going to talk about maybe CCS for a moment.
I mean usually we find fire and security is the one that's more of the challenged business unit and this time I think there are some maybe elements of Carrier rather a pleasant surprise.
Could you talk about I mean could you talk a little bit about whether it's additional new product whether it's the market who have become more competitive or what's the other change there? I mean is it all or is it something else I've missed? I think you probably hit on it and then some.
I think again part of it is Geraud has invested a lot in new products in Carrier on the commercial HVAC side.
We're seeing that start to pay off.
We are spending more money on the security side both fire products and electronic security getting new products driving return of growth.
I also think the way we have organized the business again while we think about BIS as the central organization its really decentralized decision making out of the field where you have got people that are focused on individual markets individual countries that are driving decisions that are helping to drive growth.
And again as I think about 2015 while cost reduction will be important the real key to 2015 earnings growth is going to be top line growth and Geraud has a very aggressive plan out there but I think he has got the products and the people and the markets are going in his favor.
He can actually see 5% or 6% organic revenue growth this year.
And well see where we are at the end of the year even with tough conditions in Europe and slow in China still feel very confident we are going to hit those numbers.
And if you were to ask Geraud Howard I am sure he will tell you that with the portfolio transformation pretty much behind in the fire and security space there is a lot more focus on looking at the growth opportunities and the growth markets and devoting the time and resources to make that we are capitalizing on those opportunities.
So we would fully expect that the growth profile for both fire and security and for the CCS business overall will be better than what you have seen in the past.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Howard.
Our next question comes from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Your line is open.
Great thank you and good afternoon.
Just wanted to go back to the guidance for a moment in the prepared remarks you suggested that the FX headwind was going to be a $1.5 billion for the year and yet guidance has come down by about $1 billion at the midpoint? Just wondering if you can just provide a little bit more color on that and connect some thoughts? Sure Jason this is Akhil.
Yes the exact math is $1.5 billion on the top line from the change in currencies.
We typically dont like to give guidance in decimal points this early in the year.
So whether its 64.5% to 65.5% or its 65% to 66% I would say probably in our new range of 65% to 66% it wants to be at the lower end of that range.
On the other hand to what Greg said earlier we are hopeful that the organic growth might come in little bit on the higher side of the range that we had before the 3% to 4%.
It maybe towards the higher end as opposed to the lower end of that.
So does it end being 65.5 or 65.3 too early to call but its -- we left a range in round numbers.
Okay great.
And then just a quick question on efforts to reduce the buffer inventory the $10 billion.
Can you talk a little bit about the reaction that you have seen thus far from your supply base and whether this will lead to consolidations amongst your supply base just how they are reacting to it? And then I dont know if its in one business or another but maybe where the biggest opportunities might lie? Enthusiastic support Jason.
We have many really really good suppliers large suppliers.
So we cant lump them all together.
I think the bigger suppliers tend to be the better suppliers and one of the things that we have been pushing in the supply base is consolidation of some of the second and third tier because quite frankly they cant afford to invest in the technologies and the systems the way the larger suppliers are.
In terms of where the opportunities are I would tell its primarily on the aerospace side.
I think again as I go to BIS and think about supply chain at OTIS or supply chain at Carrier or Fire and Security pretty well developed and again a little bit different in terms of technologies but again their suppliers I think generally have performed better than the suppliers on the aerospace side.
I mean part of that is because of all the changes on the aero side but really most of work is going to have to be done in that supply chain on the aero side.
And if I may having grown up through some of those businesses its what happens is typically its not so much the issue is inventory driven by the suppliers its because internally nobody wants to hold up the line.
So when material planning people are concerned about a supplier performance they end up safety stock and that just builds upon itself.
So even if one part is going to be up you end having a lot more inventory in the chain.
So as Greg said once we can get all suppliers supplying on time with perfect quality thats when you will see all that buffer inventory in our system start to disappear and we will get there.
Great thank you.
The next question comes from David Strauss with UBS.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Hey David.
OTIS North America new equipment orders have been really strong for about two years now.
Greg can you just talk on maybe give some color exactly what's going on there what do you guys see as kind of market rate of growth and how much share you might be picking up there and what do you really think is driving this outsized kind of growth that we're seeing? It's a couple of factors David.
Obviously OTIS is the ubiquitous brand here in the U.S.
and we have been gaining share back.
But it is also a market that's recovering although some very low numbers and we're still not even back to the 2007 level.
So while the recovery feels really good we still have ways to go on it.
I think OTIS has done a great job on the products side and as well as the cost side to deliver much better value to the customers and the customers value that.
The ABI has been improving as you see it's been over 50 now for the most of the past year and quite frankly we've also gotten our house in order.
You remember the -- some of the message we have in terms of the move from Nogales to Florence South Carolina that's behind us.
Again we're delivering product on time.
It's really good quality.
All those things coming together helping OTIS regain the share here in the US and again I think the party is not over.
All of the orders that we have been taking it for the last few years are going to come out and sales over the next two years and again I think OTIS North America is going to have a very good couple of years coming up.
Greg can you talk about how far you're still below prior peak levels in North America? As I recall 2007 we are about $1.2 billion in new equipment I think we are about $800 million $900 million maybe this year.
So you still got another 25% to go.
Okay great.
Business jet market I think Pratt Canada sales were [indiscernible] were a little bit lower in '14.
What are you seeing in that market weve got some players talking about things improving are you actually seeing any sort of underlying market improvement or is it just new product that shipping grew? It's more a weakness on the helicopter side of the business of the Pratt Canada engine market if you will right? And some of the things that we talked about before the operators have been a little gun shy in terms of taking new deliveries of engines.
There is some concern we hear about inventory at the operators levels.
People who are making those aircraft for the helicopter market.
So that's the space.
On the business jet side I think there is no significant change in trends.
We still -- the engine shipments were in line with our expectations probably just slightly ahead of the last year but it's primarily the turboprop and the helicopter market where we saw some weakness.
And Greg you mentioned the German tax case I think at the Investor day you talked about $400 million of potential cash tax cash payment is that still the right number and is that explicitly in the 90% to 100% free cash flow in that end? It's in the 90 it's not in 100.
So if you want to think about it 10% of free cash will be about $600 million.
So if we have to pay the German tax authorities before we have the case fully adjudicated you're going to see a lot of pressure on that 100 getting closer to 90.
So we're thinking about it we're still working it out the attorneys still tells us that we're going to win eventually.
But we may have to put up the money in the interim.
So we'll let you guys know.
See that's one place where the Euro weakening is actually good news right? Right got it.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Dave.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Yeah thanks and good evening guys.
Hi Nigel.
Its getting kind of late here So I'll keep this [indiscernible]? Got us snowing here.
It is kind of snowing.
So you obviously you have taken the maximum costs [ph] out which I think it's commendable but did he mention you're going to a 1.10 euro.
Yes that's correct.
1.10 euro okay that's been considered.
And then just obviously you mentioned in the second bridge that thats gets taken within OTIS which makes $0.30 but how does the strong euro sorry the weak euro how does that impacts OTIS margins this year? The impact that we are talking about is more just from translation.
So I don't think that changes anything on an organic basis for the margins there.
Within Europe we still have the same operating fundamentals that existed.
There is still some pressure on the pricing side in the service business but there continuous to be improvement as we continue to help improve the total number of units under contract in Europe.
That was declining for a while and it's starting to stabilize and move in the right direction.
He was very focused on that.
But I think there is nothing changing as a result of the currency it's more just the As you think about currency its simply a translation issue.
The fact is we manufacture in most of these locations where we sell.
So in terms of real economic impact its really muted by the fact that you manufacture be it in China or you manufacture in Europe.
So this is just a translation and going against right now.
We think 1.10 is the bottom but we'll keep look it.
Sure and just one more obviously Europe is mainly a service market.
So I was wondering if the translation of that high margin service in Europe this will see overall segment margin? Yeah there is a slight impact Nigel you're right.
but it's not that material.
There is some impact absolutely.
Okay that is on the -- I just want to talk to that.
And then just switching to obviously you [indiscernible] structure.
Does that imply that you haven't look at the BIS structure Greg and you're comfortable that thats the currency [ph] that you focus.
Yeah look we've talked about this already a little bit on the call.
But I think Geraud has already done on the BIS side what we're doing on the Aero side in terms of reducing structure.
He's done it over the course of the last couple of years from 2011 through this past year end where we've been taking out executives and taking out structure as we've been consolidated the back office functions as well as the overhead structures of these businesses.
So I don't think there is the opportunity exists on the BIS side the same way it did on the PAS side.
Okay thanks guys.
Okay.
Well thanks to everyone for the [indiscernible] tonight to change the timing of this.
I hope everybody has a safe couple of days here with the coming snowstorm and we look forward to seeing you guys all in March.
The IR team will be available for a few minutes tonight and then all day of course tomorrow.
So please give us call if you have any questions.
Thanks a lot.
Ladies and gentlemen thanks for participating in today's program.
This concludes the program.
You may all disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies first-quarter conference call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes President and Chief Executive Officer; Akhil Johri Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Paul Lundstrom Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTC's website at www.utc.com.
Please note the Company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and one-time items as they usually do.
The Company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectation and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTC's SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that your limit your first-round to 2 questions per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself into the queue and we will answer as time permits.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Okay thank you and good morning everyone.
As you guys saw in the press release today UTC reported Q1 earnings per share of $1.58 that is up 20% versus prior year and up 7% excluding the impact of restructuring and one-time items.
Foreign-exchange had an unfavorable impact of $0.07 in the quarter which equates to about 5% on year-over-year earnings.
So a good start to the year.
We also benefited from a few timing items that Akhil and Paul will walk you through in a second.
Sales of $14.5 billion were up 3% organically led by solid growth at Climate Controls &amp; Security and UTC Aerospace Systems which were up 6% and 7% respectively on an organic basis.
Segment operating margins expanded by 20 basis points to 15.6% despite a 40 basis point headwind from pension.
For the full year we continue to expect earnings per share of $6.85 to $7.05.
With that let me turn it over to Akhil and Paul to take you through the results in detail and I will be back and give you some thoughts on the quarter and the remainder of the year before we get into the Q&amp;A.
Akhil? Thanks Greg.
Turning to slide 2 organic sales grew 3% in the quarter and that is on top of the 5% organic growth we saw in the same quarter last year.
In the commercial businesses we saw 6% growth in the Americas helped by the ongoing US economic recovery.
Asia also grew by 6% and Europe was up slightly in the quarter.
On the aerospace side defense sales were flattish and commercial grew by 3% with aftermarket growth of 2% at Pratt and 4% at UTC Aerospace Systems.
Sikorsky's commercial business was down 26% as lower oil prices negatively impacted demand for helicopters and aftermarket in the oil and gas segment.
Taking a closer look at our end markets on slide 3  and just a reminder we will talk to the commercial business orders on a constant currency basis as we usually do.
Although there are some puts and takes overall macro trends continue to support our expectation of 3% to 5% organic sales growth for the year.
In our commercial businesses we continue to see growth in the US.
Despite a harsh winter in many parts of the country the outlook for commercial construction markets remains encouraging and ABI trends have been positive 10 out of the last 12 months.
We continue to see that in our orders at Otis where US new equipment was up 14%.
At CCS Americas commercial HVAC equipment orders were up mid-single digit.
Residential equipment sales were up 3% in the quarter and that is on a tough compare.
Recall that resi sales were up over 20% in Q1 2014.
As many of you know Carrier's US resi business is primarily a book and ship business and starting with this quarter we will include resi equipment sales on this chart with orders for other long lead CCS equipment businesses.
This gives a better representation of market demand and removes noise from things like last year's SEER 14 change-related pre-order.
We have adjusted the historic data for comparison as well.
Moving on to Europe we see the economic environment trending positively as quantitative easing measures take hold and a weaker euro supports export growth.
Euro zone manufacturing activity expanded in March to its fastest pace in 10 months driven by Germany Italy and Spain in particular.
At UTC Otis new equipment orders were up 37% reflecting broad based strength.
Commercial refrigeration orders in Europe were also up 10%.
In Asia economic output in China is moderating.
As we all know this is not new news.
Real estate investment new construction starts floor space sold are all slowing.
Otis equipment orders were down 12% in the quarter.
Now Q1 is our most difficult compare there but construction activity in China has clearly been slowing.
Shifting to commercial aerospace as Dave Gitlin said in March UTC Aerospace Systems had a soft start to the year in the commercial aftermarket where sales were up 4%.
This was driven mainly by a tough prior year compare on provisioning but parts sales were strong up 12% in the quarter.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney commercial aftermarket sales were up 2% with growth in transactional spares partially offset by lower engine service revenues.
In spite of this slow start we continue to be encouraged by the strong fundamentals of sustained 5% to 6% air-traffic growth and healthy airline profitability projections.
Taking a closer look at the first-quarter results on slide 4 total reported sales decreased by 1% as 3% organic growth was more than offset by 4 points of headwind from the stronger US dollar.
Segment operating profit was flat in the quarter with 5 points of headwind from foreign-exchange.
Operating margins of 15.6% increased by 20 basis points led by CCS where we saw solid drop through once again leading to margin expansion of 120 basis points.
Earnings per share of $1.58 was up 20% in the quarter driven largely by the timing of restructuring and gains.
Recall that the first quarter of 2014 included $0.09 of net restructuring charges while we saw $0.07 of net gains in the first quarter of 2015.
Absent the impact of gains and restructuring earnings per share were up 7% about $0.10 higher than we anticipated based on earlier than expected finalization of some discrete items at CCS Pratt UTAS and Corporate.
Free cash flow in the quarter was 67% of net income driven largely by seasonal inventory build and higher receivables.
Free cash flow was also adversely impacted by a significant net outflow in the quarter at Sikorsky.
Share repurchase was $3 billion including the benefit from the accelerated stock repurchase that we announced last month so we are pretty much done with the share buybacks placeholder for this year.
We are maintaining our placeholder of $1 million for M&amp;A and continue to expect free cash flow to net income of 90% to 100% in 2015.
We also continue to anticipate $300 million in restructuring this year all offset by one-time gains.
The recorded pretax equivalent gains of $0.14 in Q1 and expect the remaining $0.09 in the second half.
We spent $93 million on restructuring in the first quarter and expect gains to equal restructuring for the first half.
As we think about first half earnings we expect organic revenue growth to be in line with the full-year guidance of 3% to 5% and reported EPS growth to be slightly above the high end of the full-year expectation of zero to 3%.
Let me stop there for now and turn it over to Paul to take you through the business unit results in more detail.
Okay thanks Akhil.
So turning to page 5 Otis profit improved 1% at constant currency on 2% organic sales growth.
Overall foreign-exchange translation was an 11 point earnings headwind and a 9 point sales headwind.
Profit growth in quarter was driven by contributions from higher volume and productivity initiatives in the Americas and in Asia.
This was offset by a decline in profit in Europe due to lower volume and continued pricing pressure in the service business.
Sales in EMEA were down mid-single-digit with declines in both service and equipment sales.
Both the Americas and Asia regions were up 7%.
The Americas had nearly 20% new equipment sales growth and low-single-digit service growth while Asia had high single-digit growth in new equipment and mid-single-digit growth in service.
Sales in China were up 7% driven by the conversion of new equipment backlog and strong service.
But that plus 7% was softer than the 10% growth we expected this year.
New equipment orders were up 8% in the quarter at constant FX and continued to be strong in the Americas where orders were up high-single-digit.
Orders in EMEA were very strong up 37% with broad based growth across the region.
Asia orders however were down mid-single-digit driven by weaker demand in China which saw a 12% decline on some large projects.
On a unit basis orders were essentially flat.
Q1 was a tough compare for China.
Recall that last year orders were up 25% in the first quarter.
But as Akhil said activity clearly has softened.
We continue to watch China and Europe service.
And for the year guidance at constant currency remains unchanged at $100 million to $150 million of profit growth for Otis.
On slide 6 Climate Controls &amp; Security had good traction in the first quarter with 6% organic sales growth led by Transicold which grew high teens following the strong order intake we saw in Q4 at both container and North America truck trailer.
We saw mid-single-digit growth in the Americas led by commercial HVAC and the Fire &amp; Security product businesses.
EMEA grew low-single-digits while Asia was down low-single-digit with declines in commercial HVAC most notably in China and in Southeast Asia partially offset by growth in Fire &amp; Security field.
Operating profit was up 14% at constant currency driven by drop through on the organic volume growth along with benefits related to the acquisition of a controlling interest in a joint venture and a property sale.
FX translation was a 6 point profit headwind.
Overall operating margins were up 120 basis points from prior year to 16.3%.
Order growth at CCS was led by double-digit growth in refrigeration on a very strong Transicold up nearly 25% along with better commercial refrigeration where orders were up mid-single-digit.
Global Commercial HVAC orders were up mid-single-digit with strength in the Americas offsetting weakness in Asia.
Fire &amp; Security product orders were flattish while field orders declined by the mid-single-digits.
As Akhil mentioned CCS equipment orders were up 6% in line with our full-year mid-single-digit organic sales growth expectation.
With solid results in the first quarter for CCS we continue to expect profit growth of $200 million to $250 million on a constant currency basis on mid-single-digit organic sales growth.
Turning to aerospace on slide 7 Pratt &amp; Whitney sales were flattish organically with military engine sales and commercial aftermarket both up 2%.
Just a comment on that 2% up commercial aftermarket it is a bit misleading as the large commercial engine transactional aftermarket business was up 6% with spares up nearly 10%.
This signals healthy airline activity.
Aftermarket shop visits were down in the quarter which with our fleet management programs means engines are on wing longer.
That is good for the airlines and good for Pratt over the long-term.
Commercial OE was down mid-single-digit driven by the timing of engine shipments.
Pratt operating profit was flat.
Headwinds from higher negative engine margin and pension expense were more than offset by favorable aftermarket mix and performance along with lower engineering and development spending.
The quarter also benefited by $0.03 from a favorable contract termination.
Margins were up 10 basis points to 13%.
For the full year we continue to expect Pratt &amp; Whitney's operating profit to be down $50 million to $125 million.
Turning to slide 8 UTC Aerospace Systems profits grew 4% on 7% organic sales growth.
Sales were driven by double-digit growth in commercial OE and a 4% increase in commercial aftermarket which were partially offset by a softer military business which was down mid-single-digits.
Commercial OE sales benefited from a change in arrangement that added around $50 million of pass-through sales with no margins.
As Akhil noted earlier we signaled a slow start to our commercial aftermarket business and we saw that with lower provisioning and maintenance volume in our repair shops.
But we continue to be encouraged by strong parts sales which were up 12% in the quarter.
Year-over-year profit growth was driven by benefits from contract settlements continued cost reduction efforts and additional licensing income.
These were partially offset by higher pension expense and FX.
Operating margins were up 10 basis points at actual FX to 17.4%.
For the year based on anticipated improvements in the commercial aftermarket we continue to expect profit growth of $225 million to $275 million on mid-single-digit sales growth at UTC Aerospace Systems.
Turning to Sikorsky on slide 9 sales were down 7% organically and operating profit decreased by 11%.
The year-over-year sales decline was driven by lower commercial volume as well as continued softness in both military and commercial aftermarket.
We are seeing pressure from the oil and gas segment.
Not only has new capacity been put on hold the number of offshore working rigs has also come down which puts pressure on fleet expansion and the existing fleet's aftermarket business.
In the quarter Sikorsky shipped 7 fewer S-92 and S-76D aircraft.
Although Q2 should be better we will likely see continued pressure in the back half of the year.
Softer shipments were partially offset by growth in development programs which were up significantly as we ramp up on both the presidential and the combat rescue helicopter programs.
The operating profit decline was driven by the impact of lower commercial aircraft volumes and the Canadian maritime helicopter program.
Although margin from the higher development sales did provide some offset development sales come at a lower margin rate than commercial where we saw the largest declines.
This was a slow start for Sikorsky.
It's too early in the year to point to a guidance change but we are clearly seeing pressure in commercial from steep spending declines in the oil and gas industry.
During the quarter Sikorsky started ground testing on the first 53K flight aircraft as well as on the first S-97 RAIDER prototype aircraft and expects first flight of the RAIDER in the second quarter.
These are major milestones for 2 key programs.
With that let me turn it back to Greg for wrap up.
Thanks Paul.
Let me wrap up with just a few thoughts.
So a good start to the year with 3% organic revenue growth solid earnings growth and continued margin expansion.
Order trends and end markets are broadly in line with expectations with a few exceptions.
China is clearly softer for our commercial businesses.
However the stimulus programs which were announced yesterday should help.
On the other hand the US slightly better.
HVAC is up in the US Fire &amp; Security products are up and Otis new equipment orders are up again and have been strong now for quite some time.
So the US feels pretty good.
Although in the past we've been disappointed by a lack of growth in Europe I'm encouraged by the signs of growth we are now seeing.
6 months ago we wouldn't have thought that Otis new equipment orders would ever be up almost 40% in the region.
So great traction there this quarter.
On the aero side a little slower than expected start in the commercial aftermarket but we continue to expect growth to improve as we move through the year as the benefits of lower oil prices makes its way into the airline purchasing activity and compares get a little easier.
And while lower oil prices are putting some near-term pressure on Sikorsky the benefits from lower oil costs in other segments will provide some offset.
So as I said a good start to the year.
We continue to achieve significant milestones on our programs continue to secure key wins and position the portfolio to drive long-term shareowner value.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney Geared Turbofan has now completed more than 16 000 hours and 31 000 cycle of full engine testing including 3 500 hours of flight time.
In addition to the A320neo flight testing we are also powering flights on 6 CSeries test aircraft.
Our new engines are meeting or exceeding technical expectations and customer commitments providing a glimpse of the significant value these engines are expected to deliver to customers following entry into service later this year.
You recall back in January we consolidated our Aerospace Systems business from a 2 P&amp;L structure into a single P&amp;L.
Dave Gitlin and the team have done a good job over the past 3 months of bringing these 2 structures together while staying focused on supporting our customers and delivering best-in-class margins.
As you saw a few weeks ago we welcomed Bob Leduc back to UTC as the President of Sikorsky Aircraft.
He started earlier this month and has hit the ground running.
Across the aerospace industry Bob is recognized as a proven leader and he has the vision and experience necessary to lead Sikorsky today and into the future.
The building and industrial systems business had another solid quarter delivering mid-single-digit combined organic sales growth for Otis and CCS.
Integration activities continue to progress well with the team finding ways to serve our customers more efficiently.
BIS continues to also strengthen its presence in emerging markets with several new and expanded joint venture relationships including the commercial HVAC in China Indonesia Saudi Arabia and Qatar.
The latter 2 were recently expanded to include the broader BIS product portfolio.
We also completed the acquisition of CIAT which is a European commercial HVAC manufacturer and we begin consolidating its results in Q1.
BIS also expanded its relationship with Toshiba including the launch of a new variable refrigerant flow or VRF line of HVAC products in the US market.
So good momentum.
As you heard from the president's in March each of our businesses is well-positioned in our core markets.
This along with continued product innovation will allow us to drive long-term sustainable organic growth.
And we're making progress on our corporate led initiatives as well.
Akhil and the team are making headway towards a simplified corporate cost structure and we're on track to deliver about $100 million in run rate savings by the middle of next year.
As Akhil mentioned earlier we launched an accelerated share repurchase program in March which accounts for most of this year's $3 billion of share repurchase.
A lot of value in UTX at these price levels.
And lastly we continue to make progress on the evaluation of strategic options for Sikorsky including the potential for a spin.
We have nothing new to share today on the topic but we will let you know when the evaluation process is complete which I now expect to be roughly midyear.
So again for the rest of 2015 at the UTC level no real changes from what we told you last month.
With that let's open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
You mentioned on Sikorsky that the guidance may look a little bit shaky.
But just on Otis the EBIT was down over $50 million year on year in Q1.
The guide for the year is I think down $100 million to $150 million and the currency effect is pretty stable through the year.
So maybe give some color as to why that should rebound in the second half.
Is it to do with European aftermarket or cost savings coming through? Yes so Julian I think what we are looking at is the improving signs in Europe to some extent which will help buffer the back half.
The 2 watch items for us as Paul said in his comments was Europe pricing in the service side and also the China equipment.
I think because of the backlog that is coming into the year the China business will still grow this year.
Service business continues to grow very nicely grew almost 20% again this quarter.
So yes a little shy of the expectations on new equipment in China but the strength in the Otis Europe new equipment orders would hopefully offset a little bit of that.
And America continues to be strong.
So we are watching those 2 items the pricing pressure in Europe and the China new equipment market but broadly we still feel we can get to the low end of the range at least.
Thank you.
And then my second question is just on Pratt &amp; Whitney the commercial aftermarket business.
You gave some helpful color around sort of the underlying trends versus what was reported at the plus 2%.
But maybe just how quickly do you think the underlying versus the kind of headline number will come together? Do you still think in Q2 you could see low-single-digit commercial aftermarket sales growth? Yes Julian I think again we expect an improving aftermarket as we go through the year.
And again as we talked about at least lower oil prices  that phenomenon should play out even more strongly I think in the back half of the year as it takes 6 months or so to get people to change purchasing behavior.
But again I think it's all kind of out there within the guidance.
It started out slow  Dave Gitlin I think talked about that for the Aerospace Systems group back in March kind of a slow start.
But again all the signs are there.
The RPMs continue to be very strong especially in the emerging markets and we expect we will see the engines come back and we will see the parts go out the door.
Right the important thing to focus on Julian there is the transactional spares number that I think Paul talked about right? Once you strip out the spares used in our own fleet management programs the spares we sell to airlines or the spares we use in time and material jobs collectively are up about 10% right.
And that is the number which essentially we watch carefully.
If the FMPs are lower actually it is good news in the long-term.
So I think we're focusing on the right thing here which is the transactional space.
Great thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey Carter.
Just first quick one on China and the order number.
Just kind of digging into that with a little more granularity.
If you were to take a look at that either by residential versus commercial infrastructure or maybe by brand if it were OCL versus Xizi or any way you would like to cut it is there a difference in the trends that you are seeing there on the order front that you could highlight for us? So residential is a little slower than we expected that is a big headline first.
So in terms of the brand I think the Otis brand is doing well obviously on the Xizi side which is more in the residential side we see a bigger impact as you would expect because that is the part of the market which is a little slower than we had anticipated.
That is probably the broad comment I can offer on that.
The units  just as a reminder the units were flattish for Otis right.
So even the dollar numbers feel like down 12% but in unit terms the orders were flattish.
And are they seeing any change in the backlog conversion? I know you guys have talked about that carrying that backlog into this year.
No that still feels okay.
And I think as Geraud said in March just the conversion of the backlog into sales this year should give you about 5% to 8%  5% to 6% of sales growth.
And then it will all be a function of how many orders we get this year and how much of that gets converted.
And that is the math which will give the ultimate new equipment sales in China.
Great.
And then on the Sikorsky front I wondered if you might give us some color around the commercial spares orders and how much the oil and gas impact may have influenced what you saw there in the quarter.
The commercial aftermarket for Sikorsky was down double-digit in the quarter.
So some of that is just a function of the fact that even the rigs which are operational actually some of the working rigs have been coming down as well.
So it is not only the impact associated with the expansion which impacts the OE side more we have seen some impact on the aftermarket.
Now we do believe that aftermarket will actually do better as the year goes through because production is still continuing in these oil rigs.
It is -- the watch item is more the S-92s or the OE deliveries that we need to make for the year.
Great.
Thanks Akhil.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Jeff.
Could you just elaborate or provide detail on kind of the size of the discrete items in the other segments? So I assume the one in Pratt at $0.03 is the largest as you articulated that.
But can you give us a little bit more color there? Sure Jeff.
So I think it was at CCS we talked about the property sale and the fair value accounting associated with the transaction there.
The collective impact of that was a little over $0.02 there and then the third item was also about $0.02 in the UTAS business the licensing arrangement that Paul referred to.
On top of that there was probably $0.02 you will see in the [elims] line in the corporate elims line which had to do with some adjustments for a disposed business that shows up in those lines.
So net-net it is essentially timing Jeff.
It is just stuff that we had always assumed would happen in the plan.
We just assumed it would happen actually later in the year and it got pulled  by chance it all ended up happening in Q1.
Which is why I think when I spoke in March we were expecting slightly lowered numbers but I think it came in stronger just as a result of timing of some of these discrete items.
Okay.
And then just shifting gears could you just come back to Otis Europe? You mentioned pricing is a watch item and we all know that's been tough for a while.
But are you seeing some change? Is it declining at a decelerating rate or has there been some trend change there? Just what do you see going on there? Jeff it is still the same I would say.
I mean in Q1 what we saw the pricing decline was consistent with what we saw in Q4 and Q3.
But there is no either increase or decrease in the deceleration rate as you said.
What is encouraging though is  I think Philippe talked about that in March a little bit and he showed a chart that the first sign of change comes from strength in the new equipment market.
And in fact if you go back and look at that chart there were countries where new equipment had done better either in terms of less decline or started to recover pricing on service was doing better in those markets as well.
So with the strength we are seeing broad-based in the new equipment order rates this quarter our expectation is that that starts to get better on the service side in terms of pricing as the year progresses.
Now whether it happens quickly enough is something we have to watch.
But definitely that is the first sign which would then release a little bit of pressure on the pricing.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hello hello.
Yeah hey.
Good morning guys.
There are  so a quick question back on the engines again.
There's been a fair amount of discussion in the trade press that your competitor's engine the LEAP-1B is having some issues getting to its performance targets.
So there has been some talk that it is missing its targets by maybe 4% or 5%.
Just curious have you heard anything from your customers yet that are maybe looking more seriously at the PurePower family of engines if the LEAP engine doesn't seem to be getting where it needs to go? Yes I think we have all read that same speculation in the press.
But I'll tell you Ron it really hasn't impacted any of the competitions that are going on today for engine orders.
I think the competitors GE or CFM is going to commit to the same kind of performance improvements that we are seeing on the GTF family.
And I would expect that they will eventually get to the same performance targets that they have committed to.
So there might be some short-term pain on those engines but again I think long-term we like where we are with our architecture.
We think the architecture is fundamentally better; we're going to operate at a lower temperature.
That gives us some improvement in terms of not just part count but also the maintenance cost long-term.
So we will see what happens.
Those engines are going to go into service at the end of the year on the neo and that will be the ultimate test of performance is how we do in the field.
And we feel very good about where we are.
Sure sure.
And then maybe one last one here.
You have already executed on some buyback for the year.
And given where the share price is and it looks like it is pretty good darn good value are you open to buying back a lot more stock? A lot more? No.
Look I think at the current price it is a good value.
We did the $3 billion or $2.5 billion accelerated share repurchase last month and I think that was well executed.
And it gives us about a $0.05 benefit for the year by having all those shares retire early.
But right now I still think there is things out on the M&amp;A side that we want to do and we're going to keep our powder dry.
We spent $250 million in the first quarter on M&amp;A; we've got a good business in CIAT in France which Geraud and team are working on.
I think that is indicative of the kind of things we will probably see throughout the year some smaller deals.
But we are going to continue to look for bigger things too.
And I just don't want to commit to a bunch of share repurchase when there is opportunities out there to do some bigger M&amp;A.
But could we expect to see some more than what you have already done? Are you done for the year I guess is the question? Well we guided to $3 billion for the year.
I think as we go through the quarters here if we don't see additional M&amp;A or if we see some significant weakness in the stock I think we are always open to that where we see value.
And we are going to keep that in mind.
But again we are going to return more than 70% of free cash flow back to investors this year probably more than almost 80% with the $3 billion on top of the dividend.
So we feel pretty good about the capital allocation decisions we have made so far.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Yeah.
True.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Nigel Coe of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just wanted to come back  yeah.
Hi.
Hi there.
Just want to come back to the good news on the European Otis orders on the OE side.
And when you've been coming off sort of a trough type of number you can get some pretty big numbers.
I just wondered can you maybe just characterize the breadth of the strength that you saw in the OE orders and perhaps comment on the activity you are seeing and whether the strength that we have seen in Otis is also being seen elsewhere such as within Carrier and also Fire &amp; Security? Yes sure.
So I think the Otis trend was clearly right based.
You are exactly right Nigel.
The numbers have gone down so it is off a smaller base.
But still even on that smaller base we saw a decline last year.
So the fact that it is up and up nicely and it is up broad-based  almost every major country saw up orders in Otis' new equipment that is an encouraging sign for us.
So clearly that portends well for all the stuff that is going on in Europe in terms of the stimulus that is being put in place there in terms of the euro weakness that is encouraging the range of growth there.
So all those things are hopefully resulting in some better economic activity.
Commercial refrigeration in Europe as I said earlier was up double-digit as well that was nice to see.
And HVAC is up although at a smaller scale but it was up as well.
So overall we see some improving trends in Europe that is definitely certainly true in this quarter.
That's great news.
And then maybe just perhaps a bit more color on the CCS margins up 120 bps.
There's obviously a lot going on here with the Transicold mix and the BIS integration and perhaps some price benefits.
But maybe just add a bit of color in terms of those drivers.
Sure.
So I think the mix definitely as you point out is good.
Transicold grew very strongly and that is one of our high margin businesses.
There is broad-based cost-related conversion that we see very nicely at CCS that has been a story which has been there for a period of time.
We were obviously also helped a little bit by those discrete items that I talked about and that came from the 2 items that we had  that I highlighted earlier.
But overall it is great conversion on the organic growth.
I mean organic growth is up 6%.
And if you hold gross margin and you control the cost that is a recipe for good conversion.
And Geraud and team have been doing that for several years now.
And then very quickly on the raw materials are you seeing the benefit right now is that coming through in the second half of the year? Not as much in the first quarter Nigel.
I think there was a little bit of benefit from copper.
But as you know we kind of tend to have longer-term agreements with our suppliers.
So we'll see some benefit a little more in the second half but probably even more than that in the next year.
If the prices stay at this level.
That's great thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Oh.
Greg you were fairly open at the investor conference about your desire to do more M&amp;A.
And I was wondering if that prompted any further response in the market and how you would characterize the quality and availability of the assets that are out there? My phone has not been ringing off the hook if that is what you are asking.
But I think we said we are  obviously we are open to M&amp;A we have got the balance sheet to do bigger M&amp;A and we see opportunities in our core markets to do some things.
But at the same time we're trying to be disciplined here in terms of the criteria that we have laid out.
And we say we need to have an IRR north of 10% it is got to be accretive in year two it's got to have an ROIC north of 10% by year four.
Those are some pretty high hurdles with the valuations that we see out there today.
So there are some fixer uppers out there that might be attractive to us.
But we are not going to overpay either because that is the best way to make a good deal a bad deal is to overpay.
You can never recover for that.
So we are continuing to look we've got Mike Dumais and the whole team focused on looking at various properties.
And we're just going to be opportunistic.
Okay and then as a quick follow-up on foreign-exchange.
I'm just wondering why you didn't use this opportunity to maybe bring your forecast for the foreign exchange hit down a bit.
And whether foreign exchange has had any impact in terms of market share or other issues overseas? No I think when we guided back in March we talked about euro at 1.10 today it is at 1.07 if it stays here for the rest of the year I think it will average about 1.09.
So it is not just a very big impact versus what we talked about a month ago.
Obviously if we see euro go towards parity with the dollar that will put pressure on the guidance and probably take us towards the lower end.
But I think it is important while we don't hedge transactional FX  translation FX we do hedge transactional FX.
So to the extent we've got a sales contract in one currency and cost in another we are hedging that on a regular basis.
And I think the other important thing from a market share perspective we are not really disadvantaged by currency.
We manufacture in Europe we manufacture in China for those markets.
So in that really impacted very dramatically by  or disadvantaged.
And then keep in mind too more than half of the business is aero and that is all US dollar denominated.
So we are neither advantaged or disadvantaged in that market by the currency.
That's great thanks so much.
<br>Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Greg just one follow-up to the M&amp;A question there.
Are you comfortable doing acquisitions while you are still evaluating the overall portfolio or do you need to get through everything you are contemplating with the portfolio before you know which acquisitions make the most sense? We know which markets we like we know which product lines we like.
As you think about this portfolio review that we are doing as I mentioned last month we have already divested $8 billion of business in the last 5 years.
If we spin Sikorsky up that will be another $7 billion so we will have done $15 billion in portfolio shedding by the end of this year.
And there's just not a lot of other big pieces left that we don't think are in attractive markets and there might be some smaller things on the margin.
But I think for the most part we like the hand that we've got now in terms of the ability to grow the business long-term organically.
And so we are going to look to find pieces that will fit into that puzzle that we have got today and really not try and stretch to find other things outside of the core.
Okay great.
And then just going back to the aerospace aftermarket just I guess as a clarification the comments that that year was off to a slow start in headline numbers I guess made it seem like the actual underlying ongoing business was a little weak.
But it sounds like actually  given the numbers you have given us excluding provisioning that it's actually maybe quite strong and the slow start was entirely the provisioning comparison.
Is that a fair comparison or a fair assumption or is there something else? Yes I think that is exactly  as you think about the Aerospace Systems business the provisioning was down but parts were up nicely almost double digits for the transactional site.
The same at Pratt on the transactional side we saw almost double-digit increases in spare parts sales.
So that piece of the aftermarket is actually doing nicely.
What we have not seen of course is provisioning; that will come in the back half of the year as some of the new aircraft like the A350 in the A320neo enter into service we will see provisioning pick up in the back half of the year.
So a little slower than what we expected overall.
Shop visits were down but again to Akhil's point that is actually good news as most of these are on FMP and the longer those things stay on wing the more profitable those contracts are.
And GE said they are seeing some restocking of inventory from the airlines.
Are you seeing that specifically? I think you know the issue we have which is some of our legacy engines the PW2000 and PW4000 are  have this issue of legacy spare parts availability and surplus parts available in the marketplace and retirement.
So we see declines there.
In the engine which is doing well for us the V2500 actually on a transactional basis we even saw sales up over 30% on the transactional spares.
So that was consistent with what you probably heard from the others so we saw the same phenomenon.
We just had to deal with this declining issue on the PW2000 and PW4000.
Right.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Arment of Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Greg just I guess a follow-on to Noah's question on the aftermarket.
Are you seeing any differences from a geographical standpoint? You mentioned a lot that China has been slowing but are you seeing any trend over onto the airspace side out of Asia? No.
In fact Asia is probably the strongest if we think about where the aftermarket  I mean the RPMs there are up more than 30% I think year over year in China.
So we continue to see very very strong growth out of that market.
And truly to Akhil's point I mean it is these legacy 2000 4000 engines where we are really seeing the slowdown.
Okay and just my follow-up also is on [indiscernible] and aerospace on Pratt &amp; Whitney.
You mentioned the kind of timing of engine shipments.
Pratt &amp; Whitney Canada engine volume was down 10% year over year.
Is that all timing or is there something else going on there? Pratt Canada engine shipments Peter were nicely driven by the helicopter end market.
That is where we have seen the big decline.
The business jet engines were actually up largely attributed to the helicopter segment.
On the other large Pratt side it is more to do with the military engines where we saw a little bit of delays in a few of the engines there which hopefully will pick up back in Q2.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
I wanted to pursue first cash flow the conversion at 67%.
I know you mentioned Sikorsky and maybe that is some of the helicopters from the oil and gas business.
But last year's first quarter we were at 80% and we wound up the year at 90% free cash conversion.
And this year we are starting off at 67% and I think we are hoping to get higher than 90% at least 90% to 100% from what you say.
So what goes on here? I mean this quarter we saw sizable increase in inventories maybe 5% or so.
So can you kind of just walk through from where we are to how we get maybe to the 90% to 100% you are talking about for the year? First-quarter cash flow is not ever going to probably be close to 100%.
Last year we got a benefit of a $200 million advance at Sikorsky which certainly helped.
This year if you take Sikorsky out of the equation cash flow was almost 100% of net income.
So again really I would point primarily to the Sikorsky cash outflow.
But at the same time inventories were up; working capital was up specifically receivables.
And again though some of that is just timing as we work through.
You know Geraud's business it is a seasonal business on the residential side so there is some natural inventory build in the CCS business.
But overall we are also seeing some inventory on the ramp on the GTF so Pratt's inventories were up.
UTAS inventories were up for the same reasons.
They see these new aircraft going into production.
So again I think this will get better during the course of year but we clearly need to focus more on inventory turns because I think overall inventory turns for us were about 4.5 and this really is just not very good.
So there is work to do.
And just one point to add George to clarify your comment on the inventory side.
We always see build up in inventory Q1.
In fact if you pass the numbers for last year Q1 inventory had actually gone up by $660 million in Q1.
This year it was only $470 million.
Only $470 million is still a big number and certainly not we are happy with but that is part of the seasonality that we have in this.
And as Greg said we have a lot of work to do on inventory but still the Q1 67% does not give us any concern about the ability to meet the 90% to 100% for the year.
Okay.
And Akhil my follow up is if you  you commented about transactional spares being down should be good news.
At what point  I assume a lot of that is related to your power by the hour contract.
So at what point do you conclude that you can make a higher margin on that power by the hour stuff because the reliability is running somewhat better than you might have been projecting? <br> George just one clarification first.
Transactional spares which I define as spares sold to the airlines and used in our time and material jobs are actually up double-digit.
What is down was more the spares used in the FMP program.
So there to your point we evaluate the programs on a quarterly basis at least on an annual basis for every FMP quarterly for the large ones and look at the estimates based on our actual experience and then update the EACs which result in some kind of adjustments periodically that we see.
So I think over the long-term this will definitely be good news on the margins at Pratt.
How it comes into the P&amp;L exactly is a function of the length of the FMPs the period which is left and the experience that we have achieved so far.
Okay thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Harned of Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I wanted to talk about UTAS and in particular just where you stand now on savings from the Goodrich integration.
You are in presumably the more challenging time here with supply chain and facilities opportunities.
Yes so I think we are tracking very well Doug on that on the synergy side.
As you know from the original estimates of $375 million we have taken it up over to $500 million.
For this year our expectation was about $100 million and we think we are very much on track for that.
In fact if anything we may have a little upside there given the work that Dave and team have done on eliminating the costs associated with the dual structure that Greg referred to in his comments.
So the synergies are moving very very well.
I think what is left still in front of the team there is not so much the supply chain related  the supply negotiation related stuff but it is more about moves to low-cost sourcing.
We still have many many factories in UTAS nearly 100 manufacturing locations.
That is what the team is doing in creating the centers of excellence in lower cost locations such as Poland and Mexico India etc.
And as work transitions to those lower cost centers of excellence we will see further improvement in the cost structure at UTAS.
Now obviously at some point we have to stop and get off this synergy word it becomes a matter of course cost reduction like any other UTC Company does and that is where we are heading now.
So I think we can certainly declare we have done the synergies that we expected to achieve and now we need to continue to get regular cost reductions.
Well and so that is really where I wanted to go.
So as you head beyond the synergy word and look at the opportunities here I know there has been a focus on reducing R&amp;D reducing costs in general in UTAS.
Can you give a sense of how much margin opportunity you see going forward? If we go over the next few years I mean is this a business where we should expect some pretty good margin expansion? Doug there is always opportunity for margin expansion.
I think what we have to keep in mind is as all these new aircraft come into production there is headwind from negative margin not just at Pratt but also a little bit on our Aerospace Systems business.
And so I think Mr.
Gitlin and crew are going to deal with a little bit of that which will keep some of the margin improvement at bay for a time yet.
But clearly there is opportunities out there.
I think we talked a couple years ago about this being a potentially 20% margin business that is still the target I would say for 5 years out.
So there might be 50 basis points a year of margin upside here but we need to keep in mind at least in the short-term as all of these new products come to market where the margins that are going out are not positive on most of this new OE equipment.
So that is going to hold margins down a little bit.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr of Cowen and Company.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yes thank you very much.
So Otis you had 2% organic growth with high-single-digit new equipment growth.
Did service  I mean it looked like service was down some 3% to 4% result which is the weakest number I think I can ever recall.
Could you give us a little bit more color on what is happening in the service market and how quickly you might see an improvement in pricing in Europe as a result of the very strong new elevator orders this quarter? Thanks.
Sure Cai.
Just for clarification service was flat overall it was not down.
And in fact where we saw the pressure was more on the modernization side particularly in Europe where service  the modernization revenues were down in sort of mid-teens level.
And that is a function of our regulation driven modernization effort that was going on in France particularly and a couple of other markets.
Again I think maintenance contracts the number of contracts under maintenance for the quarter were up sequentially when you exclude Russia which was an exceptional situation.
But everywhere else I think our maintenance contracts were up.
Pricing pressure as I said earlier in response to Jeff's question is stable.
It is still down but it is not getting down any further.
And as the new equipment market starts to improve in Europe we expect certainly to see the pricing pressure a little bit relieved on the service side as well.
So service was good in [Asia] grew mid-single-digit there particularly in China which was up nearly 20%.
And it is growing in America's as well.
So just the continuing trends that we have seen in Europe which hopefully get mitigated as new equipment improves.
Great answer.
And maybe a little bit more color into Jeff's question.
It looks like there is $0.09 of kind of discrete operation  non-operating or whatever they are items within the operation.
You mentioned you have got some favorable timing.
Were all those $0.09 pull forwards from succeeding quarters? And maybe give us some color as a result of the kind of quarterly pattern we should expect for the year.
I think as I said Cai the  those items were in our plan for  most of them for Q2 so there is a little bit of timing thing.
You never can call exactly whether something which is a function of negotiation discussions in some events with other parties can happen exactly in March or April or June.
So I think a little bit of that pattern is there.
I did say that our first half we expect the earnings to be at the higher end or up slightly ahead of the 3% mark that we have for the full year the zero to 3% on a reported EPS basis.
So that would suggest that probably Q2 by itself would be down on a reported basis and that is understandable given the pressure we have on FX and pension and the restructuring which will be in excess of gains in Q2 right.
In Q2 we will have $0.07 of restructuring and no gains.
So that is one reason why the reported numbers start to look a little bit different in Q2.
But in reality when you exclude pension FX and restructuring we should still see mid-single-digit type of growth in Q2 EPS which is slightly below our full-year expectations given the strength we saw in Q1.
Great answer.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Cai.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Greg it looks like you started out CapEx below trend.
Have you been able to get a handle on that to the degree you are satisfied or is there still more work to be done? There is still more work to be done Howard.
I think again we saw CapEx for the quarter a little bit  a little bit up from last are about $15 million actually year over year.
So we spent like $348 million.
It is below a full-year run rate I'll give you that but there is still work to do.
And I think all the guys understand the people understand we need to be focused on constraining CapEx just like we are in every other dollar that we spent.
So there is work to do.
And then the second item research and development also was down a little bit.
And sometimes that is timing.
Could you provide a little more color and granularity on a couple of the development programs specifically GTF both for the variety of items you have whether it is neo or the other customers? Yes E&amp;D is starting kind of a natural decline at Pratt as we complete some of the testing on the neo and some of the other engines out there.
CSeries is completing its flight testing this year neo will be done hopefully this summer or early fall.
So just E&amp;D just naturally wants to come down.
If you remember Paul said he was going to take E&amp;D down about $100 million was down $17 million here in the first quarter.
So naturally you are just going to see a reduction.
And not much change across the rest of the business.
I think Geraud is up a tiny bit he continues to invest in some new products.
And Aerospace Systems are still on track to probably spend about $800 million for the year.
So not much change there.
Thank you gentlemen.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Can I just go back to Transicold which you haven't really talked a lot about? I thought this was probably the toughest compare of the year and yet you did pretty well.
Can you talk a little bit about how much of that was container versus truck and trailer and maybe price now versus where it was last year? Sam so container  as you know Transicold is a little bit of a lumpy business.
So you get some large swings and large numbers there but it was great to see the 18% or so growth in the quarter there.
A lot of it was driven by container which was up over 30%.
North America truck trailer was up nicely as well.
And in fact the orders in North America truck trailer are very very strong.
And so that is a precursor sometimes to the US economy and how things are doing there.
So that is certainly very encouraging and we see good strength there.
So both I think container and North America truck trailer were the big drivers.
Europe was also up and nicely up as well.
Okay thanks.
And then in terms of the Geared Turbofan is there any way you can kind of help us in terms of planned shipments or anything of that sort how it looks this year and kind of the ramp into next year? Just in any way you can help quantify the volume and that OE headwind that we are going to see as that ramps up? I think for this year we have got somewhere in the range of 40 to 50 GTF engines which will be shipped between the neo and the C Series to some extent.
And I think that number wants to go up to about 200 for next year.
So that is the kind of magnitude of shipments.
And that is the ramp we talk about which has been putting a little bit of pressure on our CapEx keeping CapEx above 100% of depreciation.
So that is the ramp we have ahead of us.
Okay.
Thats great.
Thank you.
Thanks Sam.
Okay so I think we will stop there.
I want to thank everybody for listening today.
The IR team will obviously be available all day Mr.
Lundstrom and crew.
And so thanks for listening.
Have a great day.
We will see you guys soon.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Have a great rest of your day.
Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies Second Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes President and Chief Executive Officer; Akhil Johri Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer; and Paul Lundstrom Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download on the UTC's website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to results from continued operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and one-time items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTC's SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide detail on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to two questions per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you and good morning everyone.
Before we get to the webcast slides I just want to make a few comments.
I'm sure many of you saw yesterday's announcement that UTC has reached an agreement to sell Sikorsky to Lockheed Martin for $9 billion.
That of course is subject to regulatory approvals and the customary closing conditions.
We'll be moving Sikorsky to discontinued operations in Q3 and we would expect to close the transaction around year-end either by December 31 or shortly thereafter in the first quarter of 2016.
This is a very good deal all around.
It's good for Sikorsky's employees and customers as well as for UTC shareholders.
At UTC we now see a portfolio that's more focused on the core and that is supplying systems and technologies for commercial buildings and aerospace and we're better positioned to create long-term value for our shareholders.
The balance of our portfolio will continue to deliver over the long-term with clear line of sight to mid-single-digit organic top line growth based on the success of the Geared Turbofan engine at Pratt and higher shipset values on new platforms at our UTC Aerospace Systems business and of course a more focused innovative product portfolio in our Commercial businesses.
The sale is expected to generate approximately $6.2 billion of available cash.
We plan to use the proceeds to repurchase UTX shares and we would expect to offset the EPS dilution from the loss of Sikorsky earnings through the share buyback program.
Now coming back to 2015 top line growth remains solid in Q2 with 3% organic growth in a continuing slow global economy.
However as you saw in the press release this morning we are lowering expectations for the year for EPS.
After a half a year of actual results it's clear that the Commercial aftermarket assumptions that our Aerospace Systems business used were overly optimistic and this along with continuing weakness in Otis Europe and a significant slowdown of construction markets in China have caused us to reevaluate our outlook for these two segments.
Needless to say we're not happy with this performance and we'll take decisive action in response including accelerating cost reduction action across the businesses and aggressively identifying additional structural actions focused on product cost and productivity that can drive earnings growth well into the future.
We also intend to explore additional benefits from capital deployment both M&amp;A and share buybacks.
Let me assure you while we see near-term weakness in some end markets the long-term outlook remains strong.
Innovative products global scale and strong market fundamentals that is RPM growth and urbanization will allow UTC to deliver strong earnings growth well into the future.
Akhil and Paul will take you through the Q2 results and revised expectations in more detail in just a second and I'll be back with some closing comments before we get into the Q&amp;A.
Akhil? Thanks Greg.
Before I talk about the full year let's look at Q2 results and end market trends for a little more context.
UTC reported Q2 earnings per share of $1.73 down 6% versus the prior year and in line with the expectations that we discussed last month in Paris.
Excluding the impact of restructuring and one-time items EPS was down 2% in the quarter but up 2% for the first half of the year.
The stronger dollar was a headwind of $0.13 in the first half which equates to about 4 points on prior year earnings.
Organic sales grew 3% in the quarter same as the first quarter and that marks the eighth consecutive quarter of top line organic growth.
In the Commercial businesses we saw continuing growth in the Americas which were up 8%.
Asia grew slightly reflecting the slowing environment in China which was down low-single digit.
And sales in EMEA were flattish in the quarter.
On the Aerospace side Commercial grew by 3% as high single-digit original equipment growth was partially offset by the aftermarket which was flattish.
Defense sales were up 5% mainly on higher military engine deliveries at Pratt.
Taking a closer look at our end markets on Slide 3 and just a reminder we'll talk to the Commercial business orders on a constant currency basis as we usually do.
For our Building Systems businesses construction markets in the U.S.
remain a positive.
And we continue to see that at Otis where North America new equipment orders were up 10%.
At CCS Americas Commercial HVAC equipment orders were also up 10% and Residential HVAC equipment sales grew 7% in the quarter.
Turning to EMEA the overall environment remains mixed and our BIS order activity reflects that.
Transport refrigeration orders in EMEA were a bright spot up over 25% while after adjusting for a large order in Saudi Arabia Otis new equipment orders were up 3%.
This was driven by solid growth in Germany Switzerland the UK and Spain with France and Russia down.
Orders for Commercial HVAC in EMEA were flattish.
In Asia the China market has clearly slowed.
Real estate investment new construction starts and floor space sold are all under pressure.
Otis new equipment orders in China were down 10% in the quarter and we also saw a slowdown in the rate of backlog conversion.
Excluding China the rest of Asia continues to do well at Otis.
At CCS China orders were down 15% driven by Commercial HVAC.
Shifting to Commercial Aerospace aftermarket at Pratt &amp; Whitney sales were up slightly with mid-single-digit growth in both Pratt Canada and Large Commercial Engine Transactional Services.
Shop visits for engines under fleet management program were lower in the quarter reflecting our strategy to improve time on-wing.
UTC Aerospace Systems commercial aftermarket sales were down slightly largely driven by the ongoing weakness in provisioning and repair.
New test parts sales continued to be strong and were up 8% in the quarter consistent with Q1.
Taking a closer look at the second quarter results on Slide 4 total reported sales decreased by 5% as 3% organic growth and a point from acquisitions were more than offset by 4 points of headwind from the stronger U.S.
dollar and 5 points from the absence of the prior-year CMHP adjustment.
Segment operating profit was down 3% in the quarter and operating margins were 16.6%.
Earnings per share of $1.73 were down 6% in the quarter.
Recall that restructuring and gains were balanced in the second quarter of 2014 while we saw $0.08 cents of net restructuring and one-time items in the second quarter of 2015.
Absent the impact of gains and restructuring earnings per share were down 2% while in constant currency earnings per share were up 2%.
Free cash flow was 76% of net income and was adversely impacted by a payment of about $250 million for the previously discussed German tax matter.
Excluding this payment free cash flow would have been a little over 90% of net income.
For the full year we continue to expect free cash flow to net income of 90% to 100% in 2015 and we are maintaining our placeholder of $1 billion for M&amp;A.
On Slide 5 as Greg mentioned we are lowering our expectations for the year.
On a continuing operations basis excluding Sikorsky we now expect earnings per share of $6.15 to $6.30 on sales of $57 billion to $58 billion reflecting roughly 3% organic sales growth.
That's down from our prior continuing ops expectation of $6.35 to $6.55 EPS on sales of $58 billion to $59 billion.
So looking at the changes on the right-hand side of the page UTC Aerospace Systems profit expectations are lower by about $300 million and Otis by about $200 million.
So total segment profit growth expectations are down around $0.38 versus our prior forecast.
There are no changes to the earnings expectations at CCS or Pratt.
We'll offset about $0.15 through lower minority interest some FX forecast contingency and lower incentive compensation among other things.
Now let's walk through what's driving these changes at UTAS and Otis.
So I'm on Slide 6.
For UTAS commercial aftermarket sales look to be down slightly in 2015 now.
Our prior expectations included high single-digit sales growth in the commercial aftermarket.
We continue to see good demand for parts based on solid airline industry fundamentals.
However after a very strong 2013 and 2014 provisioning now looks to be down about 10% versus our prior expectation of up 10%.
Repair volumes have also been weaker than expected.
In addition the military Aerospace business is slightly lower both for the OE and the aftermarket segments.
So for UTAS overall we now expect low single digit organic sales growth for the year down from the previous expectation of up mid-single digit.
Primarily due to this shortfall in high margin aftermarket sales we are changing UTAS profit expectation to down $25 million to $75 million from up to $25 million to $75 million previously.
At Otis on slide seven we haven't yet seen an improvement in the European service business and are adjusting up our expectation of a second-half recovery.
We now believe that consistent with first half EMEA service sales for 2015 will be down mid-single digit as compared with prior expectation of up low single digit.
China has also slowed.
Overall we now anticipate Otis organic sales growth to be up low single digit for the year as compared to our prior expectation of up mid-single digit.
With this change in the growth outlook we now expect Otis profit to be down $25 million to $75 million at constant currency compared with our original expectation of up $100 million to $150 million.
Including the adverse impact of FX we expect operating profit at Otis to be down $300 million to $350 million assuming euro at $1.10 for the balance of the year.
Let me stop there and turn it over to Paul to take you through the business unit results for the quarter in more detail.
CFO -- UTC Climate Controls &amp; Security - Asia United Technologies</strong> Okay.
Thanks Akhil.
So turning to page eight Otis second quarter sales were $3.1 billion and up 1% organically.
Profits were $635 million and down 1% at constant currency.
Operating profit margins remains strong at 20.5%.
Foreign exchange translation was a nine-point sales headwind and an 11-point earnings headwind.
Profit was down in the quarter as the unfavorable impact of price and mix more than offset contributions from volume and productivity initiatives.
New equipment sales grew by 4% in the quarter with solid double-digit growth in the Americas.
EMEA new equipment sales were essentially flat and we saw 4% decline in China driven by weaker orders and a slower conversion of new equipment backlog to sales.
Otis service sales were flat overall as a 4% decline in EMEA was offset by mid-single digit growth in Asia.
Service sales in the Americas were flat.
New equipment orders were up 5% in the quarter driven by a large project in the Middle East.
New equipment orders in North America were again strong up 10%; and orders in EMEA were up 32%.
Excluding the large Abraj Kudai hotel project in Saudi Arabia EMEA orders were up 3%.
Asia orders were down mid-single digit from weaker demand in China which saw a 10% decline.
Outside of China orders in Asia were up mid-single digit.
As Akhil mentioned we now expect Otis profit to be down $25 million to $75 million at constant currency.
Including the negative impact of foreign exchange we expect profit to be down $300 million to $350 million.
On slide nine we saw continued momentum at Climate Controls &amp; Security in the second quarter.
Sales grew 8% at constant currency with five points of organic growth and another three points from net acquisitions.
Profits were up 6% at constant currency.
Overall foreign exchange translation was a five-point headwind earnings headwind and a seven-point sales headwind.
CCS organic sales growth was led by the Americas where residential HVAC grew 7% and commercial HVAC was up in the low teens.
Transicold saw continued strength with sales up low teens.
EMEA was essentially flat with growth in F&amp;S products offsetting a decline in commercial HVAC.
Asia was also flat in the quarter with declines in China offset by growth elsewhere in the region.
Operating profit growth of 6% was primarily driven by a drop-through on organic volume growth and cost benefits including favorable commodity prices.
CCS equipment orders were up 4% in the quarter.
Transicold was up nearly 30% with broad-based strength across the business.
Global commercial HVAC orders were down 5% in the quarter led by a sharp decline in China.
CCS continues to expect profit growth of $200 million to $250 million on a constant currency basis on mid-single digit organic sales growth for the full year.
Solid results in the first half along with better than expected commodities and some favorable non-recurring items mentioned in Q1 helped mitigate pressure from a slowing China and a softer Europe.
Turning to Aerospace on slide ten Pratt &amp; Whitney sales of $3.7 billion were up 2% in the quarter largely driven by double-digit growth in military engines.
The commercial aftermarket business was up 1%.
Within that large commercial engine transactional sales including both parts and repair were up 4% in the quarter.
That was with a V2500 spares increase of nearly 30% partially offset by declines in legacy platforms.
Aftermarket shop visits for our fleet management programs were down which again means engines were on-wing longer benefiting both customers and Pratt.
Pratt operating profit was $489 million which was down 6%.
Headwinds from higher negative engine margin and pension were partially offset by lower E&amp;D spend and a drop-through from higher volume in the military engines business.
The absence of last year's gain on the sale of a product line was a headwind but it was more than offset by another noncore product line sale and a contract closeout.
Looking at our 2015 full-year expectations we now expect commercial aftermarket sales to be up low single digit; that's down from our prior expectations of up high single digit.
Higher military engine sales better commercial aftermarket margins and lower E&amp;D spending will offset the impact from the lower commercial aftermarket volume and so we still feel comfortable with the full-year guidance at Pratt.
Turning to slide 11 UTC Aerospace Systems profits were $580 million in the quarter which was down 4%.
Sales of $3.6 billion grew 2% organically in the quarter.
Similar to what we mentioned last quarter sales include the benefit from a change in arrangement that added around $80 million of pass-through sales with no margin.
Commercial aftermarket sales were flattish and continue to be below expectations with lower provisioning and maintenance sales in our repair shops offset by high single digit growth in parts volume.
We've seen a 10% decline in provisioning so far this year.
That's very different than the 10% growth we envisioned for 2015 driven by lower 787 activity as well as the impact of higher surplus equipment availability for legacy fleets.
The lower repair activity reflects better reliability the impact of competitive pricing pressure and airline maintenance efficiencies.
On profit the year-over-year decline was driven by lower military sales unfavorable commercial OE mix and higher pension expense partially offset by continued cost reduction.
In addition the absence of last year's customer contract settlement benefit was partially offset by other favorable contract settlements this quarter.
As Akhil mentioned we are lowering our profit expectations for UTC Aerospace Systems to be down $25 million to $75 million.
Turning to Sikorsky on slide 12 operating profit increased 26% on a 6% organic sales improvement in the quarter.
Organic sales growth was driven by higher development program sales led by the ramp-up of the U.S.
Presidential and Combat Rescue Helicopter programs.
Overall aircraft shipment volumes were down compared to the prior year but aircraft completion  again that's the aircraft customization that occurs following baseline delivery those completions were up significantly over the prior year.
So overall growth from development programs and aircraft completions were partially offset by lower military and commercial aftermarket volumes.
The operating profit improvement was driven by favorable year-over-year contract adjustments and drop-through from higher development volume offset by lower commercial aftermarket volume.
With that let me turn it back to Greg for the wrap-up.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thanks Paul.
So disappointing news on the Otis guidance on the UTAS guidance; but there are still positives and I think we need to reflect on that as we think about the quarter.
These positives actually support the long-term investment thesis of UTC.
First of all we continue to achieve significant milestones on our programs.
We secured key wins and we've positioned the portfolio now to drive long-term shareholder value.
As you know we announced significant wins across our Aerospace business at the Paris Air Show last month.
Pratt &amp; Whitney announced additional orders for over 600 Geared Turbofan engines including options reflecting continued strong customer demand.
Turkish Airlines and the Korean Air both selected the GTF for the A321neo aircraft at the Air Show.
Customers can see the advantage of our engine and have placed firm and option orders for about 7 000 engines.
And in our commercial businesses we also continue to secure key wins.
As Paul mentioned earlier Otis secured an order worth more than $100 million for the Abraj Kudai in Saudi Arabia.
The win includes 370 elevators and 104 escalators for what will be the world's largest hotel when it opens in 2017.
So again the long-term growth story hasn't changed.
Our businesses continue to be well-positioned in our core markets and this along with ongoing product innovation will allow us to drive sustainable organic growth.
As I said at the beginning of the call with the divestiture of Sikorsky our portfolio is more focused on the core that is Aerospace and Commercial Buildings and we're better positioned to drive long-term shareholder value.
Finally before we wrap up I would like to thank the many folks from Sikorsky and the corporate office who have worked tirelessly over the last couple of months to complete the Sikorsky transaction and while we're not quite done I think it's been great work by the entire team and just want to thank them publicly for that.
So with that let me stop and let's see what's on everybody's mind.
Questions? Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Mr.
Sprague.
Two questions Greg.
The first one actually much bigger-picture.
With Sikorsky out of the way obviously and the redeployment can roughly replace that but you also alluded to other actions.
And just thinking about your flexibility here and how you might push things right Sikorsky might be actually a little bit credit-negative.
Therefore if you do something else you need to be more aggressive with the balance sheet or use equity or some combination thereof.
Just where is your head on that and where is the pipeline on what might be the next step once we get past Sikorsky? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's a good question Jeff.
But we have been focused for the last three months as you can imagine on the divestiture of Sikorsky.
I think we're done with the big divestitures.
We've done $15 billion now including Sikorsky in the last five years so we like the portfolio that we have as a base off which to grow.
And so the question is with capital deployment where are we going to grow? Are we going to do more share buyback? Are we going to go to M&amp;A? Obviously the preference is M&amp;A.
You alluded to the credit metrics Jeff.
I think obviously the spin versus the sale to Lockheed Martin that doesn't really change the credit metrics that much.
And I still think we have flexibility on the balance sheet to do things.
And so the team is focused right now on M&amp;A.
We've got some things in our sights that hopefully can come to fruition this year but we're going to be more aggressive.
I think we have to continue to use the balance sheet to grow the portfolio.
Absent that there is share buyback and I think we're never going to say no to more share buyback.
I recognize that puts stress on the debt rating but we're going to do what's right for shareholders to make sure that we're driving long-term sustainable growth.
And then just thinking about the outlook Greg I don't know if you can hear it from your seat but certainly there's a lot of murmuring out there that something isn't quite right and this just doesn't feel like the UTX we've come to know with kind of the water torture on the guidance.
What is your confidence level now on where you cut things? How aggressive is the forecast as it stands today and where is kind of the soft spot in the guide still in your view? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good question Jeff.
Look to say that I'm disappointed would be a significant understatement.
We're all disappointed in having to take the guidance down.
We talked back in June about softness in Aerospace aftermarket at UTAS and we talked about Europe.
What we have tried to do today is to put a stop on the downside.
And I think the guidance that we've given for both Otis and for the Aerospace Systems group is guidance we feel confident that we can hit.
And I'm tired of delivering bad news.
And so we've probably been more aggressive on the downside because we don't want to overpromise and underdeliver.
And it's tough to do.
It's tough to get this bad news out but quite frankly as we closed out the second quarter and we met with the folks at UTAS and we met with the Otis team with Geraud and company it became apparent that we weren't going to be able to hit the guidance numbers that we had laid out.
Europe we had expected a recovery there kind of up low-single digits.
It's going to be down low-single digits.
We continue to see pricing pressure in the Otis aftermarket in Europe.
The slowdown in China is worse than what we had expected.
And on the Aerospace Systems side we were way too aggressive in terms of our assumptions for the provisioning of spare items.
The spare parts are fine at UTAS.
There's some other things that are moving around but ultimately it's the provisioning orders from airlines which as Akhil said had been up nicely in 2013 and 2014 and we expected them to be up another 10% this year.
This forecast assumes we're going to be down 10% which I think is probably we hope worst-case.
So I think we've bounded the guidance on the downside.
And the whole idea here is let's not deliver more bad news and let's position the company to grow earnings next year.
And as I said some of the headwinds that we're seeing this year they're going to continue into next year.
I think the negative engine margin at Pratt doesn't go away.
The China slowness doesn't go away and the European economy doesn't miraculously recover.
But there are bright spots and I think the U.S.
economy is a lot better than what we had expected this year and that should continue.
The Aerospace aftermarket will continue to grow.
And I think we're trying to do is the right thing long-term for the business in terms of making these tough decisions today and we're going to take another hard look at restructuring.
I think there's more to do from a cost takeout standpoint.
There's more to do that we can position ourselves to make sure we're not going to disappoint into the future.
So look we're beyond disappointed about this but we're going to fix it.
And we're going to get back to the UTC mantra of underpromise and overdeliver.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Greg when I look at the kind of the underlying expectation for EPS for this year of $6.30 is it  is the right way to think about it to add back the Sikorsky and then that's the base from which to grow? Or are we really talking about inclusive of the repurchase effort on Sikorsky that that's what we're growing to  so you're pretty using the $6.15 to $6.30 base and a target of 10% on that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think the key there Myles is  well the Sikorsky transaction will close let's call it January 1.
We'll take the net proceeds and we'll start buying back stock.
You're not going to get the full benefit of the stock buyback next year.
You'll probably get 80% of it.
So if you think about it we'll replace 80% of Sikorsky's earnings next year and the remaining 20% the following year just because it takes us a while to buy back what will probably be somewhere between 55 million shares and 60 million shares of UTX stock.
So you just don't do that overnight unfortunately.
Inc.</span></strong> And then Akhil the $0.15 it sounded pretty temporary.
So is that permanent cost takeout or business improvement or is that going to be headwind to 2016? Some of it is going to be headwind Myles because as I said it's incentive comp coming down this year.
We hope that we will do better next year then  in which case the incentive comp will have to go back up.
Some of it is just it was a release of contingency that we had.
You recall the Otis guidance previously was at $1.13/Euro and we had a slight contingency at the UTC level at $1.10/Euro Otis and CCS both.
So that's just the math of contingency release if you will.
So I would say they are not necessarily permanent.
On the other hand we do have more permanent cost reduction actions coming out of the corporate office which we should see the benefit for in next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I'll stick to two questions.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Myles.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Thank you very much.
I want to go to Pratt for a moment.
At the Air Show you talked about GTF getting up and flying again early this month.
And I think the last reported news is that that's not happened.
How are you thinking about the risk there Greg? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So we've been working closely with Airbus and do I think  they've got the flight test engines back in Toulouse right now.
We expect to be up in the air I think early next week.
And right now it looks like we'll complete the flight test program in the September timeframe certification of the aircraft in November and entry into service in December.
So still targeting year-end entry in the service.
I think we'll probably ship about 36 engines or so to Airbus this year and that we're still on schedule to do that.
So yeah it's a little bit of a delay.
As you know these things just always take more time.
But it's not like their guys have been sitting there doing nothing.
They've been doing a lot of ground test runs and the other testing that they can do before return to flight.
So we feel pretty good about this schedule right now.
And then second is I'm sure you have never seen a gain that you didn't want to take advantage of in some fashion.
How are you going to think about this? I mean some of it obviously will flow to the bottom line but some of it can really change the nature of how you think about yourself and where you want to go in the future.
Can you  I know it's premature to some degree but it's been there for a while.
So maybe if you could give us some general constructs on what you're thinking about? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think it's a very good question Howard.
I think the fact that we will have a very large gain on Sikorsky and passing through the gain in terms of EPS has never been something we thought we got paid for from the share owners.
So I think this will be thought of very similar and that's why I've asked the guys to take a very hard look at big structural cost reductions that can help us better position the business longer-term.
And again I don't have a plan today of what we're going to do.
We've got in my view six months while we're working on closing the Sikorsky transaction to figure out what all of those actions are.
But my goal would be to use the gain and do significant additional restructuring.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Thanks.
I just wondered within Aerospace Systems if you can maybe split out within that Commercial aftermarket volume cut of $250 million how much is competition which I think you talked about in Paris as well versus just kind of provisioning and repair top-line weakness and whether you think those issues at Aero Systems could persist through into next year as well? Sure Julian.
So if you think about what makes up the Commercial aftermarket at UTAS roughly $4.5 billion as Gitlin mentioned in Paris that's made up of spare parts about $1.5 billion or so provisioning of a little over $1 billion and $1.8 billion or so of the repair business.
The biggest change actually is in the provisioning part of it as Greg said which was expected to be up 10% on the back of  up 12% in (34:10) and up 19% in 2014 so very strong provisioning growth in 2012  in 2013 and 2014.
We had expectations for a 10% increase assuming that some of that strength which we saw through Boeing 787 would continue.
We had assumed that in spite of fewer operators taking new aircraft in 2015 we would see almost similar level of Boeing 787 activity in 2015 as we saw in 2014.
That's obviously not happened at this point.
It's looking more like we will probably be down roughly 40% on the Boeing 787 portion of the provisioning.
And then on the legacy side also we had seen slower take-up than we had seen in 2013 and 2014 partly due to maybe high level of inventory of provisioning parts at the airlines.
And I think that's been the biggest change.
So that's not really competition.
It's probably more a function of the inventory at the airlines and the resetting of the expectations on Boeing 787.
The provisioning associated with new aircraft A350 and the A320neo that David talked about we still expect that to happen and that should come through in the second half.
On the repairs side which is where the competition part is as you said again there we have seen the better reliability of the products translating into lower activity lower repair activity which is creating some pricing pressure.
And that we do feel that with the surplus part availability and the airlines using green time specifically for out-of-production aircraft has had some impact on our expectation on the repair side as well.
That phenomena might continue for a little longer but we do think provisioning should come back.
The piece parts business has  is  continues to do well maybe just a little bit lower but still up high-single digits as compared to our prior expectation of 10%.
So hopefully that gives you color on UTAS.
That's very helpful.
And then my second question would just be on Otis.
Not so much the sort of end market trends because you laid those out very clearly but more in terms of Otis' own kind of strategy how you look at the competitive landscape.
I mean are there things you think you can do differently? Because at the moment it feels like market share may be going down margins going down as well.
So is there any kind of rethink about what Otis needs to do from here to reverse those things? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Julian I think the  Otis  the key for Otis really is to regain market share.
Over the last 10 years or 15 years we've seen a continued erosion of Otis market share as we have pursued margin expansion and I think we have taken margin expansion to the point now where we're not terribly competitive based on new equipment pricing.
And quite frankly you've got to feed the service business with new equipment orders.
And so we're starting to see a pick-up in new equipment in the U.S.
We've started to see a little bit in Europe but we've seen a big slowdown in China.
And I think we need to fundamentally think about how we're going to grow top-line new equipment and regain market share and so Jerome and the team are laser-focused on coming up with strategies to regain share.
There's also the issue of course of service in Europe and that is probably the biggest issue.
Otis has 1.9 million elevators under service about 1.1 million of those are in Europe.
And that's where we've seen the biggest pricing pressure and we've seen no growth in that market for the last couple of years.
So we've got to return to growth on new equipment and we've got to stem the service degradation and pricing that we've seen in Europe as well.
So one of the things which the team is focused on Julian is to try and address the attrition of the service contracts that happens in the business on a normal course and Jerome has put a lot of focus on making sure that our attrition rates particularly in Europe come down from what we have seen over the last few years.
Secondly we need to continue to work on developing the technology base differentiation in our service offering.
That can then allow us to command the price premium that we've always had in the service markets in Europe as well.
And finally we're going to continue to look for a little bit more of acquisition of service portfolios to help density which is the name of the game as you know on the service side.
So I think those are some of the things that are being worked on to improve the service situation in Europe faster.
Ultimately we do believe as the new equipment market improves in Europe  which there are some early signs of still mixed but certain markets like Spain is showing signs of improvement which has been down for a long time that will certainly reduce a little bit of pressure on the service side as more activity starts to happen on new equipment.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Julian.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah hi.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Carter.
Inc.</span></strong> Just a quick question  first one on China.
How much when you look at the revision to the full-year plan how much sequentially are you planning on China revenues at Otis being down in the second half? And if you can break that up residential versus the service and infrastructure pieces it would look like that's  you're expecting declines there in the sort of 30% in the year-on-year comparisons in Residential.
Is that about right or how should we think about the exit rate in the back half of the year? For the  I'm not sure I understand the 30% comment Carter but overall I would say for Otis new equipment we expect China to be down probably low-single digit in the back half of this year in terms of sales and order rates obviously could be  that's the more uncertain part but that as you know very well it doesn't necessarily impact the current year as much.
The positive think on Otis in China is that the service market continues to grow.
We all know it's a small base but in spite of all the turmoil in the construction industry there the service business in China for Otis grew again 15% in the current quarter which was encouraging.
And then with regard to the breakup between say Residential and Commercial if that's what you were asking on the Otis side I can tell you from a brand perspective certainly the Otis brand which is more on the large commercial prestigious jobs did a lot better both in terms of new equipment orders and in terms of new equipment sales in the quarter than the Xizi brand which is more at the residential and the lower end of the segment.
Inc.</span></strong> And can you quantify the magnitude of OCL and how much it was up versus Xizi and how much it was down? So in terms of new equipment orders 10% I think OCL was flattish maybe just down slightly while Xizi orders was down in teens.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then just...
(41:23) 10%.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then just kind of a bigger-picture question on the just the planning process Greg when you look at the  Akhil's comments about the expectations for 10% growth in provisioning on the back of a 12% year and on the back of a 19% year the year before that I guess when you look at that plan and say what was missed or what was it about the specific parts that are being procured or the planning function that drove that kind of outcome that can be so far off and when you look back on that any color about how a miss like that can be that far off in what we think of as a pretty stable aftermarket business? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think to Akhil's earlier point when we came off of two very very strong years of provisioning growth I think we just assumed that we were going to continue to see that kind of growth.
And even  like Akhil said it was 19% last year so we thought it would slow down to 10% this year.
There were plans by airline where that provisioning was going to come from.
But the fact is they didn't  the airlines for various reasons didn't take the provisioning.
The rollout of the neo and the CSeries has been slower than what we expected so we haven't seen provisioning there.
But I'll tell you that probably the root cause is we pushed the Aerospace Systems guys to have a plan that was going to be up roughly $300 million for the year.
And in order to do that they had to push the aftermarket guys to deliver a much bigger number.
And at the end of the day I don't think there was a strong basis in that aftermarket assumption around how we were going to get there.
They  again they were looking at trends but I don't think we delved deep enough into  or we didn't question enough the assumptions underlying how they were going to get there.
And so I would tell you that's a miss on my part that's a miss on our part from a planning perspective that we didn't dig deep enough last year when these plans were getting put together.
And we have obviously spent a lot of time in the last month Akhil and myself with the team  with Dave Gitlin's team and we've done the same thing with Geraud on the Otis side.
We have dug deep into this in terms of the planning assumptions.
And I think on the Otis it's actually easier to understand because there we'd expected a recovery in Europe like Akhil said; kind of up low single digits and it's not there.
In fact it's still going to be down.
But the aftermarket assumption at UTAS that's just a miss.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for the color Greg.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Nigel Coe of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Good morning.
And Greg the comments about the desire not to deliver any more bad news is well taken.
The question we're getting is why didn't you opt to do this at the Paris Air Show when you adjusted Sikorsky? And did you not have enough information at that point? Because it seems pretty clear that you were going to fall far short on both Otis China and the UTAS aftermarket.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Nigel we  obviously we had expected some pressure on the UTAS guidance.
I think Dave signaled that.
Had we taken the number down in early June I would tell you we wouldn't have taken it down enough though.
And our concern was let's make sure we really understand how bad this is.
Dave had some plans in the back half of June in terms of orders that he expected to get that he didn't get; and quite frankly it was a lot worse than I think Dave or anybody else expected when he stood up in June.
So in that respect we could have taken it down a little bit but it wouldn't have been enough.
On the Otis side again I think that we were still hoping for some recovery better news out of China in June.
It's a big month for orders.
And we're also expecting to hopefully see a reversal of trend in the European market that we have not seen.
Again the Europe stuff easier for me to understand in terms of from a forecast standpoint we had a big assumption we were wrong.
Okay.
But on the Aerospace Systems side that was just again a big miss.
Okay.
And I mean obviously there was a lot of transition going on at the end of last year.
But it did feel like the plan was a little bit too blue sky not just on the provision side but Otis China and one or two other areas.
Is that recognized and are you putting in steps to cure that problem? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah just on Otis China we entered the year with a 13% increase in backlog and we had expected orders to be only up about 5% for the year.
The fact is orders are down 10%.
So yeah maybe we were too aggressive there.
But a 5% increase didn't seem like overly aggressive from a new equipment standpoint.
Property market's come down a lot faster in China than we expected.
We've seen a lot of pressure there.
And I think the other planning assumptions did we push hard? Yeah we did.
To your point there was a lot of transition last year.
Obviously been a lot of changes since we put these plans together.
But again I'll tell you it all ultimately falls on me; and it's my responsibility to make sure that the forecasts we put together are the right forecasts.
And I think we just got way too aggressive on the aftermarket at UTAS and the European recovery.
And it hasn't happened.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just finally Greg on the Sikorsky the buyback from the proceeds do you intend to get a little bit ahead of the closure on Sikorsky with that buyback or do we have to wait until we get the cash in before we can do the bulk of that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think Nigel we'll have to see is what happens with the stock price here over the next couple of months.
Obviously as we get certainty of close and we'll see I would think in the next three or four months I think we'll have an indication from the Department of Defense and from Justice and from the other regulatory authorities about certainty of close.
And whether we wait 'til the day I see the $9 billion clear or we do it a month or so early I think that'll just be determined upon the market and what we see with the stock price Okay.
Thanks Greg.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of David Strauss of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey David.
Greg I want to follow up on your market share comments on Otis.
Was that comment specifically addressed to the China market where it appears that your competitors are doing a little bit better than you are? Because it looks like in North America you've done pretty well.
Can you just give a little bit more color around your comment on Otis market share? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think overall Otis has lost share really across most markets except North America.
I think the North American market has actually remained relatively robust for us from a market share standpoint; but clearly we've lost share in China.
You recall seven or eight years ago we thought we had roughly 25% market share; today that number is probably less than 15%.
And I think again some of the competitors have come in under us from a pricing standpoint probably been more aggressive and we have lost share.
It's not just in China; but obviously China is the biggest market by a factor of I don't know three or four or more.
So that's really where the lion's share of where the market share loss has been.
And then thinking about Otis in the 2016 obviously given the lead times on new equipment.
We already have a bit of a clue what 2016 is going to look like.
Can you help us in terms of thinking about 2016 for Otis? I mean at this point should we expect China to be down next year on the new equipment side in terms of sales? Yeah.
It's a little early to talk about 2016 in specifics but I think it's not too difficult to project that China is likely to be down next year right in terms of new equipment.
So you'd see pressure in China by far even in dollar terms it's more than 40% of Otis new equipment sales.
So therefore that market is going to be under pressure.
The question is  and that's a determination we all have to make together over the next three four five months as we come close to giving guidance for 2016 what happens in Europe? Because if the European service market starts to recover and the European economy start to get better that can because it's such a large business and it's profitable business can offset some of the issues that we might see in China.
We do expect U.S.
to continue to be strong but the real question mark is what happens to Europe and whether it is enough to offset China or not.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Hey.
Good morning.
Greg if you could maybe walk us through how are you thinking about the portfolio now? I mean there are some quotes that you may be made this morning in the press that you were saying that UTC is done getting smaller.
Can you elaborate on that? And then part of that is what do you see now as the long-term organic growth of the company? I mean is UTC just sort of fixed now (50:46) forever being sort of like a global GDP grower or how do you think about that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So let's talk about first of all the portfolio.
And as I said last year when I took over we were going to take a hard look at the portfolio.
I think we have done that for all of the major pieces of the portfolio.
Obviously shedding Sikorsky was a big decision.
But for the most part I would tell you  and as I think I said this morning when we were talking to some reporters is we're done getting smaller at UTC.
We've shed $15 billion in sales since 2010; and again most end markets where we didn't see great growth or we saw a lot of uncertainty or very low margin business.
So I think the portfolio that we have today is positioned to grow a heck of a lot faster than any of those businesses that we left.
And you think about Pratt again this quarter sales growth okay nothing to write home about; but the fact is we'll be shipping 7 000 GTF engines over the next ten years.
Pratt's top line is going to go from $15 billion to $25 billion.
You're going to see very solid organic growth there.
The same on the Aerospace Systems side as you get through all of these new programs.
We've got more than 50 new systems on these new aircraft that are going to be delivered.
So the long-term organic growth story on the Aerospace side I think is solid.
It remains solid I would tell you on the CCS side.
Over in BIS we've seen very good continued growth there.
The Otis business is a challenge and I think we had expected kind of mid-single digit growth.
It's probably only going to be 2% for this year.
We've got to again get  return to market share growth in order to make sure that we're driving more than GDP growth in the Otis business.
So there's work to do there.
But I would tell you the portfolio as far as the platforms that we want to be in is exactly right.
I think again we've got a good balance between commercial and Aerospace and I don't see any more big divestitures.
I think instead what we're trying to do is we're going to build this business and we're going to build it through M&amp;A.
And to the extent that we can't find M&amp;A that creates value we're going to return the capital to you guys and let you guys invest it.
But right now our goal is to grow UTC and I think we can grow organically even without big M&amp;A.
But we're going to look to find ways where we can add M&amp;A that makes a lot of sense and that creates value.
Got you.
And if I can just one follow-on on one of your earlier comments.
You talked about pushing the plan in UTAS and that the aftermarket guys came back.
I mean Culturally does bad news flow up at UTC or is that something within the culture of the company that has to change? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It does now.
Look I think there was a reluctance from people to flow bad news up.
And I think if (53:39) people took the challenges and they tried to figure out a way to do that.
And for the most part the Aerospace Systems guys have done a good job over the last three years since the acquisition of delivering on their commitments; and so I can't fault them for one awful year.
The business is still going to generate $2.5 billion of profit this year.
It's just not going to grow.
And shame on us on the forecast side but the fact is we need to make sure that when there is bad news it does flow up and we understand what the issues and challenges are.
And so Akhil and I have put that in process.
We're out; we're doing more business reviews; we're spending more time on the road to make sure that we truly understand what's going on in these individual businesses.
And again I think that was a discipline that we had lost over the last few years and we've got to put back in place.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Greg I just want to go back on a comment you just made about if you can't find high return M&amp;A you would return the capital.
Can you just kind of talk through how selling Sikorsky and paying on the order of 31% taxes makes  that tax leakage makes more sense than just having spun it out and how you thought about that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
Let's walk through that.
So when we looked at Sikorsky as a stand-alone business we'll do about $600 million in EBIT this year.
However when we did the spin we were going to add about $100 million dollars of cost to the Sikorsky business or it could be stand-alone business; that's IT that's finance treasury.
All those things that UTC provides have to be done on a stand-alone basis.
And so when we looked at Sikorsky stand-alone we thought about our business was worth  did about $500 million of EBIT and we figured it would trade for around 10 times EBIT as a defense contractor which is kind of a market multiple.
That gave you a $5 billion valuation for Sikorsky if we spun it out.
Even if you got a 10% or 15% premium on that $5 billion for a potential takeout you're still looking at less than $6 billion of value in terms of what is Sikorsky worth as a stand-alone business.
I think of the fact that we're going to net over $6 billion on this deal and the fact that it's certain it's today it's cash made a heck of a lot more sense than the risk associated with a spin the cost and how the market reacts.
And I think Sikorsky will have a tough couple of years in front of it.
They've got some big development issues and programs they've got to get past.
It's a very solid company long-term with great technology but that $5 billion valuation wasn't even certain.
So when I got an offer that I considered to be compelling with a company that I thought was the perfect fit for Sikorsky we did the math and it came out to be pretty simple in the end.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then also this year you had been talking about $300 million worth of gains in restructuring.
I imagine some portion of that was going to Sikorsky in terms of the actions.
Do you slow those down or stop those? And does that give you any sort of net gain over restructuring or how do you think about that? Not materially Sam.
I think there was some amount of restructuring that you saw in the second quarter at Sikorsky; it's in $25 million range if I recall or somewhere in that range.
I think we continue to do the right think for Sikorsky and that's why Bob Leduc launched the action early as the volume fell off.
But I wouldn't expect for that to have a material impact in the back half.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky of Citi.
Your line is now open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Just wanted...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> ...to go back to Otis for one second.
You mentioned the backlog conversion in China is slowing.
I was wondering if you could offer just a little bit more color on that.
How bad is it getting the conversion? And if you could reflect on maybe some prior cycles maybe in other geographies maybe we can learn a bit from what we've seen in other geographies in different time periods to get an understanding of how bad that backlog conversion can get and whether there's still further risk there.
Sure Jason.
I think typically what we find at Otis is that you see a 60% conversion of the opening backlog and then the rest of the sales essentially comes from current-year orders.
What we've seen is a couple two to three points slowdown in that conversion rate from the backlog this year and that's largely due to the credit availability issues in the China market.
We typically like to have  to make sure that we get our money before we release equipment and that's where we have seen some of the slowdown in the conversion.
So at this point the team believes it's appropriately sized two to three points and maybe there could be a point or two to go which is what we have factored in to our back half forecast here for China right now.
So between 55% to 60% conversion should still be possible and doable.
Obviously as you know the Chinese government is doing everything it can to try and help the economy improve the credit availability in the marketplace at some of what they can do and to prop up the real estate markets again.
So we'll see where it all ends up but I think we are appropriately sized at this point.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then one question on the commercial aftermarket.
There were two phrases that you used there that I found interesting: pricing pressure and part availability.
Obviously it sounds like we've got quite a bit of inventory out there.
I was wondering if you could make some attribution as to where that part availability or inventory is coming from.
Are we seeing more parked aircraft of where (59:51) your installed base is shrinking perhaps a little bit for the aircraft? Yeah.
Yeah I would say it's not so much about retirements or part availability.
I would attribute it more to airline efficiency in the sense that there is greater  in the marketplace there is more efficiency in terms of either pulling up parts surplus parts are easier identification of where the parts are.
So when an airline is looking for a particular item for repair it almost feels like it's a little easier these days to find that part in the surplus market as opposed to necessarily going for the new one.
That's probably the change that is there of the airline efficiency part I would call it.
It's not that the retirements are going up.
It is just that the market is a little more efficient now.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And no pricing pressure from P&amp;A (1:00:42) or any other issues? You think that encapsulates all of the pricing pressure? No and I think there our strategy of going for more FMPs in the parts (1:00:55) situation where we are getting more than 80% of our engines now under fleet management program and improving that rate to over 60% in the case of the C.A.R.E.
program for UTAS is the right strategy to address that part of the issue.
It's more about making sure we have a larger part of the service activity under our management and under our control which helps the airlines as well because we do a much better job of maintaining the aircraft and our parts for them and they're under our program in the fleet management program.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And that is all the time we have for questions.
Like to hand the call back over to Mr.
Hayes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
And thanks everyone for listening today.
Not the results that you would come to expect from UTC but you can be assured that we are working it diligently.
The IR team with Paul and company will be available throughout the day to take your questions and have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
That does conclude today's program.
You may all (1:01:55) disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies third quarter conference call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes President and Chief Executive Officer; Akhil Johri Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Paul Lundstrom Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download on UTC's website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and onetime items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTC's SEC filings include its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to one question per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself into the queue and we will answer as time permits.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thank you Amanda.
Good morning everyone.
As you all saw in the press release this morning we reported 3Q earnings of $1.61 per share on sales of $13.8 billion and segment operating margins of 17.6%.
Today we're also reaffirming our full-year EPS expectations of $6.15 to $6.30 a share on sales of $57 billion to $58 billion and of course that's all ex-Sikorsky on a continuing operations basis.
On Sikorsky the divestiture process remains on track.
We recently received regulatory approvals from United States the EU Japan and South Korea.
A couple more to go but we expect the other necessary approvals to follow in the coming weeks which gives us confidence the transaction will close shortly.
As previously discussed we plan to use the roughly $6 million of net cash proceeds for additional share buyback and we'll do that in the form of an accelerated share repurchase program.
And this will bring our total share repurchases initiated this year to about $10 billion.
As you may have heard us say at a conference back in September we're going to keep driving the share repurchase agenda as long as we feel that there's a significant discount between the intrinsic value of UTC and the share price.
We continue to see that today of course that's why our board recently authorized a new $12 billion share repurchase program.
That includes the $6 billion ASR that we just discussed.
All told we now expect to make at least $16 billion in share repurchases from 2015 through 2017.
When we couple that with our dividend of more than $2 billion a year our plan will return more than $22 billion to shareowners over the three-year period.
And of course we continue to work restructuring opportunities with projects focused on long-term cost competitiveness.
These actions would allow us to further leverage our global scale and drive long-term value.
To put it simply we remain focused on what we can control which means an aggressive cost control and continuing to invest in differentiated products and services that deliver real value for our customers over the long term.
So despite the mix of macroeconomic environment that will likely continue into 2016 and perhaps beyond we're executing on the necessary changes to bring about long-term sustainable earnings growth.
When the Sikorsky sale is complete the UTC portfolio will be focused on its core businesses and that is supplying innovative game-changing technologies for the buildings and aerospace systems industries.
Going forward UTC will have a better organic growth profile along with higher operating margins and a stronger more predictable cash flow.
And defense exposure for UTC goes from 19% to 13% on Sikorsky.
All of this gives us clear line of sight to mid single-digit organic sales growth over the long term and we're confident on this outlook based on the investments we've made which resulted in an order book roughly 7 000 Geared Turbofan engines at Pratt &amp; Whitney increased shipset content of a new platform at Aerospace Systems business and a more focused innovative product portfolio in our Commercial businesses.
Thinking about Buildings and Aerospace portfolios we're very well positioned.
Otis is the best elevator business in the world.
And I say that because we've got 1 800 branch offices we've got 3 million unit installed base and we service over 1.9 million elevators on a daily basis.
Climate Control &amp; Securities is a leading global building systems and services provider and that of course combines the world-class brands like Carrier Kidde and Chubb and many others.
And of course we've doubled down on innovation at CCS over the last five years and it's paying dividends today in a form of a resurgent commercial HVAC business in a more cost-competitive products across the CCS portfolio.
And strategically our Aerospace businesses have never been better positioned.
Our Aero backlogs are at their highest levels ever giving us confidence that Pratt and UTAS can deliver the strong revenue growth goals that they've laid out.
Personally I've never been more confident in the future of UTC.
The long-term outlook remains solid innovative products industry-leading franchises global scale and solid market fundamentals in our core businesses driven by revenue passenger mile growth and the global expansion and continued urbanization of the middle class.
All these things have positioned UTC to deliver strong earnings growth well into the future and all of it will create long-term shareowner value.
Please stop there and turn it over to Akhil and Paul to take you through the Q3 results.
I'll come back with a few closing comments before we get into Q&amp;A.
Akhil the floor is yours.
Thank you Greg.
Moving to slide two organic sales contracted by a point in the third quarter driven by Pratt which was down 8% as the recent transition to a new material logistics center disrupted Q3 engine deliveries.
These turbine issues are now largely behind us and Pratt expects to recover the majority of this impact in the fourth quarter.
In the Commercial businesses Asia was down 2% reflecting the slowing environment in China which was down high single-digit.
Europe sales were flattish in the quarter.
On a brighter note we continue to see growth in the Americas which was up 7%.
On the Aerospace side Commercial contracted by 2% and defense sales were down 12% both mainly driven by the timing of engine deliveries at Pratt &amp; Whitney.
Taking a closer look at our end market trends on slide three and just a reminder as we always do we'll talk to the Otis and CCS orders on a constant currency basis.
For our Commercial businesses construction markets in the U.S.
remain strong.
We continue to see that at Otis where North America new equipment orders in the quarter were up 47% including a large order for the Hudson Yards project in New York City.
North America new equipment orders are up over 20% year to date and that's on top of 40% growth in 2014.
At CCS America's commercial HVAC equipment orders were up 8% consistent with the first half growth rates.
Residential HVAC equipment sales grew 7% in the quarter.
Shifting to EMEA the overall environment remains mixed and our Commercial business order activity reflects that.
While Otis new equipment orders in EMEA were down 9% in the quarter they were up low single-digit in Western Europe.
Orders for the CCS business in EMEA were down slightly.
In Asia we continue to see the China market weakening.
Growth in fixed investments has slowed considerably.
Otis new equipment orders in China were down 19% in the quarter after being down 11% in the first half of 2015.
At CCS China orders were down 8% in the third quarter and down 12% year to date so slightly better in the third quarter.
Asia excluding China which represents about half of our overall Commercial business in the region continues to perform well with Otis new equipment orders up over 20% and commercial HVAC orders up low double-digit.
Commercial Aerospace aftermarket remains mixed.
Aerospace Systems commercial aftermarket sales were up 1% organically in the quarter with weakness in provisioning which was down over 20% offset by higher parts and repair.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney commercial aftermarket sales were up 8%.
Both the Aerospace Systems and Pratt businesses benefited from a favorable contract adjustment in the third quarter.
Now since most of you have 2016 on your mind let's see what these trends means for us.
We will be giving formal 2016 guidance at our Annual Outlook Meeting on December 10 as we typically so things can change.
But this is what we are seeing today.
And I am now on slide four.
I'll start with a few things that we know will be headwinds next year.
Commercial Aero OE margins both at Pratt and at Aerospace Systems.
The negative engine margins story at Pratt is well known at this point.
We have also talked about the mix impact at Aerospace Systems as production decreases on higher margin fully learned-out current platforms and increases on new platforms where the margins on early units are pressured by the learning curve.
OE mix pressure along with the absence of a few favorable items in 2015 that do not repeat next year will make it difficult for UTAS to grow earnings.
While we do not like the earnings pressure in the near term these are great strategic programs at both Pratt and UTAS that will generate increasing profits and cash flows for decades to come.
There is also some pressure in military Aerospace.
Biggest item here is the C-17.
Their production is ending this year.
That's primarily at Pratt.
And UTAS will face headwinds from declining military spending and completion of a few retrofit programs.
On the Commercial side consistent with what you're seeing in the general macro environment we will likely see our business in China down 10% to 15% next year.
That will probably come with a profit decline of over $100 million.
Now moving to the middle column Europe has been below expectations in 2015.
Order rates have been mixed with some pockets of growth and recent GDP forecast suggests 2016 should be up just 1% to 2%.
Currencies have been moving around a lot and could move some more depending on what the Fed does with interest rates.
If I had to call it today I'd say over $100 million of FX headwind largely due to Chinese yuan and other emerging market currencies and assuming the euro at $1.10 and I'm talking about profit impact not sales.
On the positive side the U.S.
markets continue to be good.
We expect stronger-than-growth GDP across our end markets.
We continue to see the benefits of restructuring and we'll do more next year.
Commercial aftermarket at both UTAS and Pratt while pressured in the areas of provisioning and legacy fleets should grow low single digit next year as airline profits remain strong and revenue passenger miles continue to increase.
This year we have had significant headwind from pension.
And while year-to-date returns on plan assets are trending lower than the expected returns we still expect a tailwind of over $200 million next year.
Also share buybacks that Greg talked about will be a benefit of approximately $0.40 in 2016 net of interest expense as the average share count comes down significantly.
Net-net as Greg said last month 2016 will likely be another challenging year.
Earnings in three of the four segments Otis Pratt and UTAS will be flat to down even with the pension benefit.
Shifting back to the current quarter on slide five total reported sales decreased by 6% driven by five points of headwind from the stronger U.S.
dollar and one point of organic contraction.
Segment operating margins were 17.6% down 50 basis points largely driven by headwinds at Pratt.
Excluding Pratt margins were up slightly.
Absent the impact of gains and restructuring earnings per share were down 2%.
And at constant currency earnings per share were up 1%.
Free cash flow was 44% of net income largely due to significantly higher working capital from the engine delivery delays at Pratt a timing issue.
We have also seen some inventory build at Aerospace Systems as we prepare to support the growth in new programs.
Year to date free cash flow to net income is 71%.
The fourth quarter is typically our strongest quarter for cash.
And we still expect full-year free cash flow to net income of 90% to 100% in 2015 although it's likely towards the lower end of the range.
And for M&amp;A we are maintaining our placeholder of $1 billion.
As Greg mentioned at the beginning of the call we are confident in our guidance for earnings per share of $6.15 to $6.30 on sales of $57 billion to $58 billion.
Year-to-date EPS for continuing operations is $4.76 so we expect Q4 EPS of $1.39 to $1.54.
Let me stop there and turn it over to Paul to take you through the business unit results for the quarter in more detail.
Investor Relations</strong> Okay.
Thanks Akhil.
Turning to Otis on slide six in the quarter sales were $3 billion which was up 2% organically.
Otis profit was $660 million and also up 2% at constant currency.
Foreign exchange translation was an 11 point headwind to both sales and earnings.
Otis profit growth was driven by drop-through from higher organic growth lower costs from productivity and commodities and tailwind from foreign exchange related mark-to-market adjustments.
Pricing and mix were a headwind in the quarter.
New equipment sales increased 4% led by strong growth in both North America and Asia outside of China.
EMEA new equipment sales were down about a point and China was down 9%.
Service sales for Otis were flat overall as a 3% decline in EMEA was offset by mid-single-digit growth in Asia and low single-digit growth in the Americas.
We saw a decline in modernization sales from continuing contractions in France and Russia offset by low single-digit growth in repair and maintenance sales up slightly.
Our portfolio of units under maintenance continues to grow and is now north of 1.9 million units.
New equipment orders were up 2% in the quarter.
The strong momentum in North America continued with orders up 47%.
Excluding the Hudson Yards order that Akhil mentioned earlier North America was up nearly 20%.
New equipment orders in the EMEA were down 9% with declines in Russia the Middle East and Germany mitigated somewhat by growth in Spain and Italy.
China orders were down 19% but Asia overall was down 10% with strong growth in South Korea India and Southeast Asia.
We continue to expect Otis profit to be down $300 million to $350 million primarily due to the adverse impact of foreign exchange.
Moving to slide seven Climate Controls &amp; Security grew sales 5% at constant currency with three points of organic growth and two points of benefit from M&amp;A.
Profits were up 4% at constant currency.
Overall foreign exchange translation was a seven point sales headwind and a four point earnings headwind.
CCS organic growth was led by a 19% increase in our transport refrigeration business Carrier Transicold and continued strength in the Americas where U.S.
residential HVAC grew 7% and commercial HVAC was up 5%.
Both EMEA and Asia were down mid-single digit organically with declines in China more than offsetting growth in other parts of the Asia region.
Operating profit growth of 4% was primarily driven by drop-through on the organic volume growth and cost benefits including favorable commodity prices offset somewhat by adverse sales mix in the quarter.
Global commercial HVAC equipment orders were up 3% in the quarter driven by 8% growth in North America and an 8% decline in EMEA.
Asia commercial HVAC was down mid-single digit driven by a weaker China.
Transicold saw orders down 2% in the quarter while fire and security product orders were down mid-single digits and F&amp;S field was flat.
CCS continues to expect profit growth of $75 million to $125 million for the full year.
Shifting to aerospace on slide eight Pratt &amp; Whitney sales were down 8% organically.
As Akhil mentioned we had some start up challenges at a logistics center that delayed some large engine shipments in the quarter.
Pratt's military aftermarket was down double digits with declines in the F117 program and Pratt Canada volume was down on lower helicopter and general aviation shipments.
These declines were offset by growth in the commercial aftermarket at Pratt which was up 8%.
Within that large commercial engines aftermarket was up 6% driven by a favorable contract adjustment.
Excluding this adjustment engine services that's our FMP or Fleet Management Program business was up about 20% the transactional business was down 13% on a difficult compare.
On a year-to-date basis the commercial aftermarket is now up 4% and as we move through Q4 we expect the commercial aftermarket to be in line with our prior guidance of up low single digit for the year.
Moving to profits in the quarter Pratt operating profit was down 21%.
The impact from lower military sales higher negative engine margin lower Pratt Canada engine deliveries and higher pension expense were partially offset with lower E&amp;D spending and margins from the commercial aftermarket including approximately $0.04 of favorable contract adjustments.
With the expected volume recovery in Q4 Pratt is on track to deliver on their prior earnings expectations of down $50 million to down $125 million.
Turning to slide nine aerospace systems profits were down 2% on flat organic sales in the quarter.
Similar to what we mentioned the past two quarters sales included the benefit of a change in arrangement that added around 60 million of pass-through sales with no margins.
Excluding those pass-through sales the commercial OE business was down 3% in the quarter from timing of deliveries on various platforms in a tough compare.
Military OE sales were down 7% in the quarter driven by declines on the C-17 and other programs.
Commercial aftermarket sales were up 1% organically in the quarter and included a favorable impact from a customer contract closeout.
Provisioning sales continue to be down significantly driven by lower 787 activity as well as the impact of higher surplus equipment availability for legacy fleets.
Piece parts volume was up low single digit.
Even excluding the impact of the contract adjustment repair sales were still up mid-single digit reflecting an improvement in maintenance volumes.
On profit the year-over-year decline was driven by lower military sales unfavorable commercial OE and aftermarket sales mix and higher pension expense.
This was partially offset by continued cost reduction and around $60 million of nonrecurring income driven by favorable contract  excuse me favorable aftermarket contract adjustments and the benefit from asset and license agreements in the quarter.
We continue to expect operating profit for UTC aerospace systems to be down $25 million to $75 million for the year.
With that let me turn it back to Greg for a wrap up.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thanks Paul.
Just let me highlight a couple milestones that took place in the quarter that really better position the business to drive long-term shareowner value.
As you know we recently eliminated the Building &amp; Industrial Systems Management layer thus following the elimination of the Propulsion &amp; Aerospace Systems layer earlier this year.
As a result we simplified the organization.
We have a flatter more efficient structure with four strong businesses and four solid leaders that all report directly to me.
This focused organization will drive greater accountability and in turn help drive value creation for all shareowners.
As I mentioned at the beginning of the call the Sikorsky transaction is on track to close shortly.
This will leave us a more focused more growth-oriented and a higher-margin portfolio business.
The long-term growth outlook remains exceptionally strong.
UTC has world-class industry-leading franchises and we play in attractive end markets with our differentiated technologies and importantly we continue to invest in innovation.
Also we have a significant base of recurring revenues which today account for about 45% of UTC sales.
And we generate reliable cash flows through all the business cycles.
As I mentioned earlier we'll return more than $12 billion to shareowners this year and that includes $2 billion in dividends $4 billion in buybacks year to date and a $6 billion accelerated share repurchase that will implement upon the close of Sikorsky.
And we're not done yet.
All in as I said earlier we'll do at least $16 billion of buyback in more than $6 billion of dividends from 2015 through 2017.
As a leading provider of high-tech products and services to the aero and building industries we continue to believe UTX shares are a great investment opportunity.
The UTC team is executing in building momentum by focusing on the things we control all while being laser focused on delivering maximum value to our shareowners.
With that let me open the call for questions.
Amanda? Thank you.
Our first question comes from Nigel Coe of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks and good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Nigel.
So the 2016 roadmap is obviously helpful; and quantifying some of the headwinds $250 million from Pratt about $100 million from China $100 million from FX and then I'm seeing about $150 million from military.
So that adds about $600 million of headwinds.
You mentioned some offset from pensions but maybe could you just fill in how I guess given the $40 million deficit ex-pension  with pension do you think that growth in the commercial aftermarket cost reduction commodities et cetera can offset that GAAP you have from some of the headwinds? You are already in the December mode Nigel.
This is all that detail we will go through with you in December.
I think right now it's appropriate to say that the benefits of the capital deployment the benefits of pension the benefits from aftermarket growth commercial aftermarket growth U.S.
markets remaining strong will allow us to the headwinds that you talked about so well.
I think net-net we can give you confidence that we will grow earnings next year.
Exactly how much that will be is something that we'll talk more about in December.
Okay that's fair enough.
And then just on the cost reduction you typically do in the range of about $3 million of restructuring a year.
What is the scope for 2016 to be a bigger year of cost reduction over and above what we normally see from UTC? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Nigel I think what you're going to see is here in the fourth quarter we're going to announce some significant additional restructuring actions.
We've got this big gain coming from Sikorsky and we've seen some opportunities to do some longer-term structural cost reduction.
After we announce them today we'll give you all that detail in December.
We'll take some overheads out we'll take some SG&amp;A out but primarily the focus is on long-term structural cost reduction.
That means factory rationalization and those paybacks are a little bit longer typically two to four years but all that gives us runway as we think about  as we emerge from the cycle of investment on the aerospace side even more earnings runway going forward.
Okay that's very helpful.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Nigel.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ron Epstein of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning Greg and Akhil.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Maybe just a real big picture question for you Greg.
When you took over the reins you mentioned that everything was on the table.
In some conversations post that we've had you've talked about you guys are doing more regular portfolio reviews that kind of thing.
And when you stand and look back at the UTX portfolio it really seems like there's a lot of value in the company that's just not being realized yet by the market.
When you think about that are there other ways to start unlocking value in the portfolio? Can you talk about that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's a really good question Ron.
It's interesting.
I took over just about a year ago.
And when I stood up in last December and talked about going forward what we were focus on we talked about a couple of things.
We talked about how we're going to examine the portfolio and we were going to make sure that we had the right portfolio to drive long-term sustainable earnings growth.
We said we were going to look for ways to increase shareowner value.
As I think about it this is not a one-year game.
In fact if you think about it we're probably in the first inning of a nine-inning game.
And we're building momentum.
We've done a lot of things.
The first thing is from the structure of the business we've got the right team together out.
We've also I think identified the fact that look sometimes the market doesn't recognize the real value.
And as a result you see this morning we've talked about this $16 billion share buyback program.
It's simply a recognition Ron that while we have to make investments in the short run this is really a 30-year time horizon.
We're investing in engines today we're investing in elevators today that we're going to service for 30 and 40 years.
So the focus of the business yeah we're looking at the portfolio I think we've got a great portfolio that can drive long-term sustainable growth but I also think we recognize the reality of the short term is that the market is discounting that long-term growth and so we've got a big disconnect between intrinsic value of the company and what the share price is.
So I'm going to take advantage of that and we're going to do this share buyback.
I think it's the right thing to do.
And I don't think it's any surprise.
We've been talking about the fact that we see this disconnect and so we're going to continue to buy back shares aggressively.
$16 billion may not be done but again we're looking at how do you drive sustainable long-term value while delivering short-term results.
It is that balance that we're after here.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Ron.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Doug Harned of Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Thank you good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Doug.
Hi.
I wanted to talk a little bit about Otis because you've talked about the loss of market share in China.
If you look at growth in China KONE has been growing faster than you have.
So what I'm trying to understand is when you go forward are you satisfied with the current market share and the margins you're getting in China or is this something where you see a different strategy where you would push for an increase in market share and possibly at the expense of margins? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Doug that's an interesting question.
Am I satisfied with market share? Of course not.
I think we have sacrificed market share for margins for a number of years and it's not just in China.
We've really done that globally.
But we've got this great business Otis which has 20% kind of margins $12 billion business but we have to grow and I think that's been the Achilles' heel of Otis and we have not seen bottom line growth in about five years.
So we have to think about it differently.
Philippe Delpech is the new president of Otis.
He's got a great team in place and we're going to focus on the  kind of the basics if you will of how do we get back to long-term sustainable earnings growth.
Part of it is going to be by gaining share because again it is that market share that ultimately provides the elevators that we're going to service and it's also by improving service productivity making service more sticky to the customers showing the value of Otis versus the others.
So I think there's a lot to do.
Will margins suffer in the short run? Perhaps a little bit but let's just be clear this is not a pricing war I'm talking about.
I'm talking about targeted market share gains where before perhaps we were not always being an aggressive as we could in pursuing some of these opportunities.
And so to your point KONE has gained share on us in China.
We're not happy we're going to go after that and not just China really it's globally.
And you see that in the U.S.
especially.
Last year we grew Otis orders about 40% in the U.S.
This year we're up about 20%.
We know how to do this.
It's about having great product and a great service team and great leadership and we've got that across-the-board in Otis today and I'm confident we're going to be able to regain share without sacrificing a lot of margin.
And Doug if I might add to that a little bit the loss in China market share to some extent was driven by a conscious decision on our part not to play in certain segments.
So the low cost social housing segment we had underrepresented or underplayed that market.
Gaining share in that market doesn't necessarily have to come with price.
It also comes with the right innovative highly cost-efficient product and we are working on that.
Greg and Philippe have been talking about increasing some R&amp;D investment in Otis to get the right products for the right market segments.
And I think by attacking market segmentation we've seen the strategy play out in Korea.
We'll do that in China as well.
It's not just about dropping prices to gain market share.
It's about putting the right products in the right segments at the right value.
Okay thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Doug.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeffrey Sprague of Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Jeff.
Hey I was wondering Greg if you could just circle back to the share repurchase a nice pop here for sure more than a pop.
Just maybe a little color on how you arrived at that number; why that is the right number.
You've said obviously it could go higher.
But just how are you thinking about that relative to where your cash is actually geographically located and how you're trying to balance the balance sheet and the rating agencies and the like? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think you hit on exactly the right part Jeff which is we're trying to balance the cash in terms of keeping the rating where it is today as well as where the cash is generated into the future.
Clearly we've been out with the rating agencies.
We've talked to them about the fact that we want to continue to do share buyback we want to take share buyback up and we still want to keep our powder dry to do M&amp;A over the next couple of years.
So this was a number that we felt in working with the agencies gave us enough coverage to do aggressive share buyback while at the same time preserving a little bit of powder to go out and do M&amp;A.
If the M&amp;A doesn't happen we can do more share buyback and it really will depend upon how much of a disconnect we continue to see between the intrinsic value as we believe it to be versus where the market sees us today.
So there wasn't a magic number here I would say the $6 billion that's the net proceeds from Sikorsky.
We've talked all along about how we're going to reinvest that.
But it's really the confidence going forward that we see in the long-range forecast that gives us the ability to go out talk to the rating agencies and say here's what the cash flows are going to look like not just for the next two or three years but out beyond that because of these investments as they start to tail off cash becomes very very strong in the out years and we can afford to take out a little bit more leverage.
We don't want to be down in BBB from a rating perspective but we did take a downgrade by a notch and I think that's appropriate today.
The capital markets are pretty well recovered from 2009 and we felt like we didn't need to keep the A1P1 but we still want to maintain some flexibility.
And Jeff the decision to buy back shares was pretty straightforward.
I'm sure like you have and many of the investors have we have a 10-year cash flow model as well.
And when you look at that and the virtual assurance that some of our investments are going to deliver in form of great cash flows when the engines come back for aftermarket and when the UTAS systems come back for repair and overhaul et cetera the cash flow spin of this business is phenomenal.
The Otis business generates over 100% of net income every year as cash flow.
So given the strength of our cash flows over the long-term clearly our discounted cash flows give us a much higher value of UTX today than the share prices.
And in that situation it's very easy to make that call.
Can I sneak one more quick one in on Otis Akhil since you bring it up? There's a lot of concern out there as you crank up the new product and try to recover share and the like that the margins need to go down materially in Otis.
You disavowed that with some of the earlier comments both you and Greg made.
But can you give us some thought about what is a normal margin rate for Otis or where things might settle out as you work through this process? Sure.
As you think about  the good thing Jeff is that unlike the Aerospace business we don't need to spend $1 billion to create innovative products in Otis.
The beauty of the Otis model is targeted investments in R&amp;D of $10 million  $20 million can give niche product which can attractively easily attack market segments.
And that's what we are talking about increasing Otis R&amp;D investment by $20 million  $30 million can allow us to capture share in segments that we had vacated earlier.
So I think it's not about increasing huge amount of investments.
It's about the right pricing decisions as Greg said.
It's about the targeted R&amp;D investments.
And the other thing to keep in mind is Otis has the largest scale of any elevator company in the world.
So our ability to reduce costs day in and day out at Otis is bar none.
And we have to be able to take advantage of that to keep our margins at levels where they are.
Will they come down temporarily short term? Sure and that's the right tradeoff to make but it's not going to be a 500 basis point margin reduction.
It may be 100 basis points or so.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
Your line is open.
Thanks so much good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Rob.
Greg maybe to follow up on Ron's earlier question about strategy and the big picture your commentary earlier in the year was much more optimistic as I think about your ability to make acquisitions.
Obviously the share price has changed since then.
But does maybe your lack of enthusiasm for acquisitions here reflect the prices you're seeing out there or the quality of the assets you're seeing out there or maybe some other factors? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You pretty well hit on it there Rob.
Look we still want to do acquisitions.
And this year we'll do about $1 billion of acquisitions some smaller things that are mostly on the commercial side of the portfolio.
But there remains an opportunity both on the Aerospace Systems side as well as on the building side of the business.
We have not seen or found an asset of the quality that we like quite yet but we continue to look.
And it ultimately comes down to can we buy a business and create real value for the shareowners without having to give all of that value to their shareowners in the form of a very high takeover premium.
So we're going to be disciplined we're going to keep looking.
And quite frankly I think the slowdown that we've seen in the stock market over the last six months gives us the opportunity going forward to be selective and to find targets that are out there.
I think what's off the table today is the bigger deal.
We'll do deals in that $1 billion to $5 billion range things that we can finance with existing cash or cash flows or what we have on the balance sheet.
But any type of deal that will require us to use UTC stock in my mind is off the table simply because of the disconnect.
I don't want to use a devalued currency to do a deal.
So over time as the UTC share price recovers back to towards where intrinsic value is we may think of a bigger deal.
But right now we're thinking about that $1 billion to $5 billion range and we'll continue to look.
And I give the team credit.
We've been close on a couple of deals and we've walked away because the value wasn't there at the end of the day after we did due diligence and we did the right thing.
And we'll continue to have that kind of discipline going forward.
That's great.
Thanks Greg.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Rob.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning gentlemen.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Carter how are you? Inc.</span></strong> Good.
Good.
Just a quick clarification and then a question.
I noticed the disc ops was a loss figure in the quarter and I know you're close to closing this deal but I wondered if you might tell us what actually happened with Sikorsky in the quarter.
And then just a question on the planning process I know there was a lot of attention last quarter to the plans around provisioning and service in Europe and obviously it's the time of year where you guys have gone through that or are going through that strategic planning process for next year.
I wondered what sort of changes you may have implemented on the planning front.
I mean obviously you've changed the organizational structure.
Can you give us some insight into just how that's coming together this year versus prior years? And what we should think that means for risk and anything else? Sure.
So let me take that and I'm sure Greg will add to it.
But on the disc ops it's the fairly straightforward situation.
There was about $0.16 of nonrecurring items in the quarter related to pension curtailment for the Sikorsky employees and an income tax adjustment for taking away of the APB 23 assertion that we had for Sikorsky.
Those will be offset by the gains when we have that in Q4.
Operationally Sikorsky did what we expected.
It is on track to hit the full year numbers but the quarter was weak particularly on the oil and gas side.
And the shipments were down significantly on the S-92 and the S-71 platforms as you would imagine.
But nothing inconsistent with what Bob Leduc said at the  in the June Paris Air Show.
We are on track with the roughly $0.40 of operating income from Sikorsky and about $0.10 of separation cost excluding the restructuring type of items.
On the planning process Carter I think again we've been spending a lot of time this year working in details with the business units trying to make sure we fully understand and agree to the assumptions that are being baked into the plan.
We will make sure we lay those out for you all to understand clearly as we stand up in December.
And at the same time we will be back in the mode of potential contingency at the UTC level to make sure that we do not surprise.
That is number one priority for us to make sure we live up to our commitments and deliver what we say.
If anything we want to get back in the mode of under-promise and over-deliver.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me just go on top of Akhil here I think the new structure gives us the ability to dive deep into these individual businesses.
We've got four guys.
They're running these businesses and we're in lock step with them in terms of the planning process and the key assumptions that they're making.
So I don't expect any surprises going into next year because we didn't understand what the assumptions were or it wasn't clear what the assumptions were underlying the plan.
And obviously when we get to December we're going to have those four business leaders there with me.
We're going to go through each of their plans.
We're going to go through each of the key assumptions that make up the plan and there will be no surprise with investors next year.
Obviously we were too aggressive this year on commercial aftermarket.
Again there was a reason for that.
It proved to be not correct but we're going to make sure we don't have that mistake again.
So we'll be a little more conservative.
We're going to have adequate contingency at the UTC level and we're going to make sure that everybody understands all of the key assumptions that go into our plan.
Now the things we can't control like what happens to currency and what happens to the individual markets but we're going to get cost structure right and we're going to make sure we've got the right organization in place to deliver on the commitments that we're going to make.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Carter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Julian Mitchell of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Julian.
Hi just a question around CC&amp;S.
I think it's the one segment where an EBIT increase is reasonably likely for next year.
But I just wondered how you thought about the risks that this sort of replicates maybe some of the issues that Otis has had in recent past? The margins have had a huge increase 500 or 600 points in recent years well above most industry peers now at about 18%.
So I just wondered what gave you the confidence that you'll see further margin expansion in the future and whether that expansion is reliant on divestments or you think you can do it operationally.
And then just a very quick one word one for Akhil should we expect free cash flow conversation to improve next year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me start with CCS now and I'll let Akhil or Paul pile in after me but I'm very confident in the CCS outlook for the next few years.
If you think about it Julian we've made big investments in R&amp;D.
In fact I think we doubled the R&amp;D budget at CCS over the last five years.
We've got this great new commercial product line.
We've been seeing very solid growth at the quarters  in the quarter we're up 8% on the commercial HVAC in the U.S.
Continue to see good positive momentum on the residential side sales were up about 7%.
So we're seeing good momentum.
The other beautiful thing about CCS is it's not just a U.S.
HVAC business it's a global business but it's got fire products it's got field about 30% of their business is service.
It's a global Building Systems portfolio and there's going to be growth in a lot of markets and we think clearly China will be down next year we've seen that in the order rates this year.
But the rest of Asia still looks very promising.
Europe though we would expect some recovery there next year not where I'm talking 5% or 6% growth but just modest recovery in Europe.
And I think what Bob McDonough has focused on is continued cost reduction and cost takeout to ensure that he can grow earnings next year.
So make no mistake.
When we talk about three of the businesses will be challenged to grow earnings Bob will be challenged but we're going to challenge him too to grow earnings as much as he can.
On the cash flow side Julian we certainly expect cash flow for next year to be better than this year.
Keep in mind we have a 5-point impact from the German tax payment this year right which hopefully won't be there next year.
In terms of the makings of cash flow we will still have a couple more years of pressure on the CapEx side because the Aero ramp is not fully done yet.
We still have capital investments which are continuing to be made in both Pratt and UTC Aerospace Systems.
Obviously we'll try and control that to the best we can.
And then we should start to see some improvement.
We've also had buildup of inventory as we get ready for the ramp right? So I think some of those factors will over time start to dissipate but definitely just the fact we won't have the German tax payment disconnect should suggest a better cash flow to net income next year.
Great thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Julian.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Sam.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the working capital you just mentioned.
Just can you quantify the impact of this Pratt Logistics Center transition? What exactly happened? What was the sales earnings cash flow impact? And is that the sole reason we saw working capital up the $966 million in the quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sam let me start and just talk a little bit about the New England logistics center.
First of all Pratt this year  I think third quarter this year versus last year was about 55 fewer engine shipments about six of those were on the military side; the other 49 were commercial.
If you do the math that's little over $500 million in sales that we missed year-over-year.
The New England logistics center Logistics Center you guys have heard all about it we had some startup issues.
The good news is today we're about 94% on time with the kits coming out of there the kit fill rate.
We should be at 97% which is the contractual target by the end of this month and we should be able to make up almost all of that production by the end of the fourth quarter.
So again one-time thing expect a very big fourth quarter.
And I think the learnings out of the NELC like everything else we treat these as an opportunity to make sure we don't do things wrong in the future but also it's good learning in terms of process.
So the Pratt team is focused on right now delivering to customers and getting back on track.
The rest of the working capital Akhil? Yes.
So I think in addition to the fact that Greg just talked about if you think we missed effectively the August shipments right and timing of shipments is absolutely critical as you know because if we ship early in the quarter we can have the receivables collected within the quarter that converts into cash right away.
In the absence of not being able to do that in Q3 it left us with a much higher level of inventory and we weren't able to collect the receivables that got shipped for late in the quarter.
Same holds for Q4.
We expect to recover most of it.
The Pratt team is working very hard to make sure that they can recover most of the shipment misses of August early in the quarter so that we can collect it within the quarter but that's the thing that we are continuing to work on.
The second point I mentioned earlier was again as the title work with new programs is starting to happen at both UTAS and Pratt there is some additional inventory which is being built.
It's almost like what CCS went through with the CS 13 transition last year right that you base some inventory some safety stock to make sure that you can meet customer requirements.
So that's again a temporary short-term investment which hopefully goes away as the next year comes around.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Sam.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Peter Arment of Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Yes.
Morning Greg.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Peter.
Hey Greg.
Just following up on.
Could you give an update now on where things stand on the GTF how that's performing and also how you kind of quantify all the fluidness that's going on with the CSeries? I think back in March you kind of indicated that 2017 was going to be the year where we still have  probably more than 50% of deliveries would be GTF coming out of Pratt.
Maybe if you could just give us a little view  update on the program right now.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
So GTF yes Geared Turbofans really the five different programs.
I think the biggest program is obviously the A320neo program.
We were going to continue in the flight test program with Airbus and we expect to have that aircraft certified later this year.
The good news of course is that we're hitting the targets that we set out to initially.
About 16% better fuel burn about 50% reduction in emissions and a 75% noise reduction.
So we're right on top of what we told customers we would be six years ago when we started the program.
You've also of course got the GTF going on a Mitsubishi Regional Jet.
We expect first flight probably in the next week or so over in Japan on the MRJ.
That will probably go into service in 2018.
Again core is performing great and we're on track with the performance.
Bombardier I think we've got six airplanes in flight test today.
We continue to see very very positive results out of that.
It's a great little airplane; I think you've heard that.
And it's targeted to that 110 to 130-passenger market.
And we continue to support Bombardier.
I think we'll do what we can to help Bombardier.
We all read about some of the challenges that they've had but it is a great program it's a great product and the engines are performing really well.
We also of course got that GTF engine on the Embraer the E2 platforms.
Those are a little bit further behind in the development schedule.
Those go into service 2018  2019 but again same core as the rest of GTFs.
So from a performance standpoint from reliability it's all going really well.
The gear architecture works.
We haven't seen any failures related to that in any of the flight test programs so we're very confident.
Of course the challenge is as you know Peter as you go through this is you've got not just the R&amp;D investment but the negative engine margin.
So that will be a stress over the next three years as Pratt ramps up.
And I think I saw the latest schedule about 1 500 engines we'll be delivering in 2018 or 2019.
2019 yes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> 2019 so $1 billion of negative engine margin.
So the investment continues but it's an investment that we know is going to pay off because we're going to have a very very solid aftermarket revenue stream for the next 30 years.
So GTF is doing pretty well.
That's great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Peter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Steve Tusa of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Steve.
Hi Steve.
Pretty strong margin at Otis this quarter.
I guess you talked about the profit decline is in line for the year.
But maybe where are you going to be there in the fourth quarter? Do you got a range there just maybe a little bit more of a point estimate on the fourth quarter because it would imply that I think margins are down year over year in the fourth quarter if I'm doing math correctly? So I think if you're talking about total UTC guidance Steve it's...
For Otis.
...maybe it's around...
For Otis.
Otis will probably at the midpoint of the range overall so I think consistent with what we have said all along.
I wouldn't want to give a point estimate for Otis but I think overall I think everything is on track with exactly what was said and communicated in July.
Okay.
You imply something in kind of the high teens like 19% for the fourth quarter I think something like that.
Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
So when you say that the margin is going to go  it's not going to collapse it will go down 100 basis points or whatever you're talking about  what base are we using? Are we using the exit rate for the year? Is it 20% that you're still looking at for this year so can you hold above 19%? Is that the guidance here that you're talking about when you say Otis margins will only be down I think you said earlier in the call about 100 basis points as you go through this transition period? It's a starting point of 20% because for a long time we talked about Otis margins at 20% or so on a sustainable basis.
And I think what I mentioned was 100 basis points or so reduction in a transition period as we reinvest into the business through either lower market share gain or through higher R&amp;D.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Steve just to add a little flavor on that Otis spends about 1% of sales on E&amp;D about $140 million a year.
So we talk about the additional product investment and we'll link a couple of these things you're talking $20 million to $30 million; you're not talking about more than probably 50 basis points of headwind from E&amp;D over the next couple of years.
It's not like we're going to see to Akhil's earlier point 500 basis points of margin deterioration.
I think the 20% level is something that's our long-term goal to maintain.
It will fluctuate over the next couple of years maybe come down as we make some investments.
But long term we still see that 20% as a target that's achievable even with what we see from a competitive standpoint today.
Okay.
And Steve I would just encourage you and others to  one of the things we have been obsessively focused on has been the margin at Otis which probably has forced us into some bad decisions.
I think what is more relevant is operating profit growth and I think that's what our focus at Otis is going to be to try and generate profit growth.
And if that means that the margins are going to be a little different than what I said or what you expect that's okay as long as they're gaining organic growth with appropriate margins to get better operating profit growth at Otis.
Sure absolutely and then just one quick one just on U.S.
non-res construction.
There are a lot of things going on in the industrial economy.
Obviously there's probably going to be some regional pressure here as oil and gas is getting worse and hitting pretty hard.
Are you guys seeing anything in the more oil-and-gas-centric parts of the country that would make you worried about this? It looks like pretty stable still stable non-res recovery.
Anything in Texas that stands out on the commercial building front anything like that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No the good news is there are not a lot of skyscrapers in Wyoming and South Dakota.
So the commercial construction market as you know Steve it's on the coast and it's in the Southeast and we continue to see very very solid growth in commercial construction.
As I said earlier I think we're up  Otis up 20% year to date in orders in North America 40% last year.
So it all looks pretty good.
And I know people talk about an industrial recession.
In the markets that we play in in the U.S.
we don't see that.
I think again the non-res piece and the residential piece is all very good and Commercial Aerospace remains strong.
So I like the hand we've got here.
Right.
No elevators at a rig site I get it.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's in oil not ours anyways.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Jason Gursky of Citi.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you guys.
Akhil I just wanted to go back to Otis in China.
Last quarter you mentioned that there had been some sort of degradation backlog conversion.
I was just wondering if you can give us an update on how things trended here in the third quarter.
And combining that thought with the orders being down 19% in the current quarter what gives you confidence that we're only going to be down 10% to 15% next year? So typically Jason what happens is you've got about 60% of current year sales come from backlog conversion and we have seen a couple of point reductions in that.
At the same time we've also seen order rates decline.
So the year-to-date orders are down about 13% for Otis.
We expect fourth quarter probably to be something similarly in line with that.
The expectation is that the Chinese government has been investing in infrastructure even though the property market has been weak.
Housing starts housing completions have been down.
But there has been investments in metros in airports and Otis benefits a little bit from that as well.
So I think the overall view at this point  again this is early in the process.
We will give you more specific guidance in December when we are updated and maybe our view might change a little bit between now and then.
But based on what we see today maybe orders down between 10% to 15% some improvement through infrastructure investments that the Chinese government is making opportunity to gain a little share and the continuing growth in the service business which still continues to grow on the maintenance side in the mid-teens.
We do expect China at this point to be down between 10% and 15%.
What exactly it will be we'll tell you more in December.
Investor Relations</span></strong> The rate of change...
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
But just looking further there's no further degradation in backlog conversion particularly...
No.
No.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Just to add one comment Jason on China and that would be although the rate of change for orders got worse for Otis it actually improved for CCS.
CCS orders in the second quarter were down in the mid-teens.
They were down 8% in the third quarter.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Jason.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
And we're mindful of the time.
Our hour here is up.
Paul and the team will be available of course all day to take additional questions.
And we look forward to seeing everybody in December in New York and December 10 I think is the actual date for our 2016 Outlook Meeting.
And again any questions please feel free to give us a call.
Thanks very much for listening everyone.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2015 Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes President and Chief Executive Officer; Akhil Johri Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Paul Lundstrom Vice President Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTC's website at www.utc.com.
Please note except where otherwise noted the Company will speak to results from continuing operations and excluding restructuring costs and significant other items of non-recurring and/or non-operational nature often referred to by management as significant other items.
The Company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other Forward-Looking Statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTC's SEC filings include its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to one question per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself into the queue and we will answer as time permits.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Okay.
Thank you Kailey and good morning everyone.
As you saw in today's press release we reported full-year 2015 adjusted EPS of $6.30 that's at the high end of the guidance range that you gave for last year.
Sales were just north of $56 billion and segment operating margins were solid 16.7% for the year.
I'm pleased to say that despite a very tough macro environment we remain confident at our full-year 2016 adjusted EPS guidance of $6.30 to $6.60 a share that's on sales with $56 billion to $58 billion.
As I reflect back on 2015 we took a number of decisive actions and I'm encouraged by the progress that team has made on our strategic priorities.
First of all we streamlined the portfolio we simplified the organization structure and we returned $12 billion to shareowners and most importantly perhaps we achieved some key program milestones.
As you know we announced this and closed the sale on Sikorsky for very good price $9 billion and that generated a $3.4 billion after tax again in the fourth quarter and enabled us to initiate a $6 billion accelerated share repurchase program in November.
As a result of the divestiture UTC is now more focused on its core businesses thats creating and supplying innovative and game-changing technologies for the building and aerospace industries.
Going forward this portfolio will have a better organic growth profile we will have higher operating margins and we will have stronger cash flows.
We've also simplified the organization we eliminated the proportion in aerospace systems layer and the building and industrial systems layer.
That creates a flatter more efficient structure with greater visibility and importantly greater accountability and we now have four focused business units that are well positioned to deliver long-term sustainable top and bottom line growth.
On the cost front we announced a $5 billion multiyear restructuring plan and that includes $400 million of restructuring we initiated in 2015.
And that restructuring is focused on enhancing the long-term cost competitiveness of the company.
We expect this restructuring plan to generate about $900 million in run rate savings by 2019.
We also returned over $12 billion to shareowners last year through dividend and share repurchases that includes the $6 billion ASR we announced in November.
After completion of the ASR this year we continue to expect to return at least another $3 billion through additional share repurchase plus more than $2 billion of dividends through the year.
Clearly the best M&amp;A opportunity we see right now is UTX stock we'll continue our share repurchase program as long as we feel there is a significant discount between the intrinsic value of the UTC and the share price.
While this program execution continues to be a top priority and we achieved several key milestones in 2015.
The Pratt Powered Joint Strike Fighter achieved initial operational capability for the marines back in July.
The A320neo Aircraft was certified a CSeries Aircraft was certified both with Pratts Geared Turbofan engines and a number of UTAS systems.
The Mitsubishi Regional Jet also had its first flight and the Embraer Air Engine began testing on our flying test bed.
These are programs that will drive growth for decades to come not only at Pratt but at our UTC Aerospace Systems business as well.
I'm glad to say that the dream of the GTF is now a reality.
The first Pratt &amp; Whitney powered A320neo was delivered last week to Lufthansa and entered into revenue service this past Monday And were meeting our commitments on day-one for fuel burn emissions and noise and the first time in aerospace history that an engine delivered everything it was supposed to do on day one.
That's a remarkable performance by both Pratt and Airbus and let me crystal clear we're extremely confident in the technology of the Geared Turbofan.
On the commercial side we continue to achieve key wins.
At Otis we won the Hudson Yards project in New York and the world's largest hotel the Abraj Kudai in Saudi Arabia.
The climate controls and security we secured the new Atlanta Braves Stadium in Georgia and the Sheikh Jaber Al Ahmad Cultural Centre in Kuwait to name just a few.
So overall I'm proud of our accomplishments in 2015 and as we move forward the priorities are largely the same that we laid out a year ago.
First of all flawless execution innovation to drive long-term growth structural cost reduction and most importantly perhaps disciplined to capital allocation.
We remain focused on what we can control which means controlling cost while continuing to invest and deliver differentiated products and services that will bring value to our customers over the long-term.
So despite this mixed macro environment that we are all facing UTC is taking the actions necessary to drive long-term sustainable top and bottom line growth and create real long-term shareholder value.
Let me turn it over to Akhil and Paul to take you through the quarterly and full-year results and I'll be back with a few closing comments in Q&amp;A.
Akhil.
Thanks Greg.
So I'm on slide two.
Adjusted EPS was $6.30 thats down 2% versus the prior year and up slightly excluding a $0.19 impacts from adverse foreign exchange.
Full-year GAAP earnings per share of $4.53 included a restructuring charges of $0.31 and an additional $1.46 of net charges from other significant items.
As we did told you back in December a lot of moving pieces this quarter so let me walk through a few of the larger pieces that make up the $1.46 of other significant items using the table on the right side of the page.
This morning's press release tables have a more detailed reconciliation.
The largest item is of $0.72 charge for the previously disclosed $867 million settlement of the Canadian royalty obligation at Pratt Canada.
There were also $0.41 of charges for tax related items roughly 75% of that is for U.S.
taxes on the planned repatriation of $1.4 billion of cash related to foreign earnings.
This will happen over the next couple of years.
Our aerospace businesses recorded $0.27 of charges for customer contractual matters $0.21 of that was at aerospace systems related to the completion of significant customer negotiations including the enhancement of our contractual position on our key program the settlement of certain customer contract disputes and a contract termination.
At corporate we recognized a liability of $0.17 for pending and future asbestos-related claims.
This was based on an analysis of our claims history broader nationwide asbestos claim data and most importantly recent agreements reached with insurers.
On the other side of the ledger you will recall in Q1 we had a gain on our value adjustment related to the acquisition of our controlling interest in a CCS joint venture that was a $0.14 benefit.
Now net income for the year was reduced by these charges resulting in fee cash flow to net income of 126%.
In that number the benefit from net non-cash restructuring charges and other significant items was slightly more than 25 points.
Moving to slide three organic sales were up 1% for both the year and the quarter in what continues to be a slow growth macro environment.
Looking at the fourth quarter our commercial businesses saw 4% growth in the Americas driven by continuing strong fundamentals in the U.S.
Europe was down 2% primarily from continued pressure in the Otis service business and Asia was down 1% due to China where sales were down 4%.
Growth in Commercial Aerospace was primarily driven by the aftermarket both at Pratt and UTAS.
Military Aerospace sales were down 11% mainly due to tough prior year compared on engine deliveries at Pratt.
Military aftermarket was down slightly at both Pratt and UTAS.
I'm pleased to say that Pratt has resolved the supply chain and delays experience in Q3 as the New England Logistics Center of NELC.
They are back to their pre NELC engine delivery cadence and we're on scheduled with deliveries for large commercial engines and the Joint Strike Fighter as of year-end.
Taking a closer look at our end markets on slide four and just a reminder we'll talk to Otis and CSS orders on a constant currency basis as we usually do.
Overall trends remain broadly consistent with our expectations across the portfolio.
In our commercial businesses we continue to see good momentum in North America particularly at Otis the North America new equipment orders were up over 50% in the quarter and 30% for the year.
This is on top of 40% growth in 2014 so very encouraging trend here.
At CCS U.S.
commercial HVAC equipment was down 5% in the quarter driven mainly by a slowing export market and tough compares in unitary.
For the full-year orders were up 5%.
U.S.
residential HVAC sales were up 2% in the quarter and up 5% for the full-year.
EMEA was somewhat mixed in the quarter Otis new equipment orders was strong up 20%.
At CCS commercial HVAC equipment orders were also up 4% while fire and security product orders were down 7%.
In China Otis new equipment orders were down 14% in the fourth quarter and finished down 13% for the full-year.
On the other hand CCS Fire and Security orders in China were up 8% and commercial HVAC was flat an improvement compared to trends earlier in the year.
Moving to aerospace revenue passenger miles continues to grow slightly above the long-term trend rate and airline profitability remains strong.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney total commercial aftermarket sales were up 11% in the quarter including a three points benefit from sale of Legacy Engine Hardware.
At UTC Aerospace Systems commercial aftermarket sales were up 8% on strong repair and provisioning activity.
Now before I let Paul to take you through the additional details for our 2015 let's talk briefly about the first quarter of 2016.
Based on our expectation of slowly improving economies as the year progresses and easier comparison to second half we expect 2016 to be backend loaded.
Additionally the second half of 2016 will benefit from declining E&amp;D trends and higher cost savings.
Also recall the first quarter of 2015 benefited by about $0.10 from timing of a few exceptional items.
First quarter last year was also the highest organic growth quarter of the year for CCS and UTAS.
We had a slowing but still growing China for Otis and lower negative engine margins at Pratt.
Primarily due to these factors as compared to an adjusted EPS of a $1.44 in Q1 2015 and consistent with our plan we expect adjusted EPS in the range of $1.35 to $1.40 for the first quarter of 2016.
This includes about $0.08 to $0.10 benefits from lower share count and another $0.10 in pension [pay rate] (ph).
As Greg said we remain fully confident in our full-year 2016 adjusted EPS guidance of $6.30 to $6.60.
With that let me hand it off to Paul to walk you through the business units in detail.
Paul.
Okay.
Thanks Akhil.
So turning to Otis on slide five in the quarter sales were $3.1 billion up 1% at constant currency.
Otis profit was $561 million and down 13% also at constant currency reflecting increased pricing pressure principally from China and the margin impact from softer service sales in Europe and lower new equipment volume in China.
Foreign exchange translation was an eight point headwind to sales and earnings.
Otis also had headwind from foreign currency related mark-to-market adjustments in the quarter.
New equipment sales increased 1% led by 26% growth in North America and mid single-digit growth in Asia outside of China.
EMEA new equipment sales were up 1% while China was down 7%.
Service sales for Otis were flat overall as a mid single-digit growth in both Asia and the Americas was offset by 5% decline in EMEA.
New equipment orders were up 2% in the quarter.
The strong momentum in North America continued with orders up over 50% on continued strength in major projects.
In EMEA new equipment orders were up 20% with strong growth in most major markets excluding Russia.
New equipment orders in China were down 14% that's 8% on a unit basis while new equipment orders in the rest of Asia were up 15% excluding the impact of the Thomson Line Metro project in Singapore that we referenced last year.
For the full-year operating profit was down 3% at constant currency on 1% higher organic sales.
Foreign exchange translation for the year had a nine point unfavorable impact on both sales and profit.
New equipment orders finished up 4% with solid growth in North America and in EMEA partially offset by 10% decline in Asia driven by that 13% decline we saw in China.
Outside of China Otis global new equipment orders were up 17%.
Moving to slide six climate controls and security grew sales 3% at constant currency with three points of tailwind from net acquisitions and flat sales organically.
Profits were up 5% at constant currency with continued benefits from restructuring and other productivity.
Overall foreign exchange translation was a five point headwind to both sales and earnings.
During the quarter we saw a continued sales growth in HVAC in North America where commercial HVAC was up 9%.
EMEA saw growth in HVAC as well up 4% organically and Asia was down 7% driven by a lower China.
Overall sales growth in HVAC was partially offset by 2% declines in both the fire and security product and fuel businesses globally.
The fire and security business in China was up 9%.
Our global refrigeration business was flat in the quarter with mid-single digit growth in Transicold offset by mid single-digit declines in commercial refrigeration.
CCS equipment orders were down 5% in the quarter primarily driven by last year's tough compare Transicold.
If you recall last year Transicold saw orders up more than 50% in the quarter.
In the fire and security business we were down mid single-digit globally with pressure from the oil and gas sector.
For the full-year operating profit was up 7% at constant currency driven by drop through from the 3% organic sales growth and productivity including lower commodity cost.
Shifting to aerospace on slide seven Pratt &amp; Whitney's sales of $4 billion were flat organically in the quarter.
Commercial aftermarket sales grew 11% in the quarter supported by low-teens growth in the commercial engines business primarily from the V2500 up 26% in the quarter and approximately $60 million from a sale of legacy engine hardware.
Military sales were down 15% on lower engine deliveries and large commercial OE sales were also down 15% primarily on engine mix as Pratt shift more V2500 engines and fewer PW4000 than in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Operating profit was down 1% in the quarter.
Headwinds from lower military volume along with higher negative engine margin and pension headwind were largely offset by drop through from the stronger commercial aftermarket continued declines in E&amp;D spending and better warranty experience.
For the full-year Pratt sales were down 1% organically driven by lower engine deliveries in all segments and lower military aftermarket sales.
Commercial aftermarket growth was 6% for the year.
Operating profit was down a $150 million in 2015.
Headwinds from pension negative engine margin and lower military aftermarket were partially offset by margin from the commercial aftermarket and lower E&amp;D spending.
Turning to slide eight.
Aerospace systems sales were up 4% organically in the quarter consistent with the last three quarters sales included the benefits of a change in arrangement that added around $80 million of pass through sales with no margins.
Excluding those pass through sales the commercial OE business was up 2% in the quarter with growth in new platforms partially offset by declines in legacy.
Commercial aftermarket sales were up 8% organically in the quarter largely driven by growth in provisioning for the A320neo and the 787.
Overall commercial spares finished the year with a book-to-bill of [1.0] (Ph).
Military OE were down high single-digit in the quarter driven by declines in the C17 and other programs and the military aftermarket was down as well about 1%.
Aerospace systems profits were down 10% in the quarter.
The year-over-year decline was driven by lower military sales unfavorable commercial OE sales mix as we began transitioning to newer platforms higher pension expense and lower contribution from licensing activities.
These headwinds were partially offset by higher commercial aftermarket volume and continued cost reduction.
Engineering spending was essentially flat in the quarter.
For the full-year aerospace systems sales grew 3% organically with about two points of benefit from the pass through sales mention before.
Profits for aerospace systems were down 3% for the year driven by adverse OE mix lower military sales and higher pension expense partially offset by a continued benefits from productivity lower engineering expense income from licensing agreements and benefits from both higher commercial aftermarket sales and favorable aftermarket contract adjustments.
So with that let me turn it back to Greg for the wrap-up.
Thanks Paul.
As I mentioned at the beginning of the call.
I am encouraged by the progress that team is making.
With the actions we've taken were much better positioned for the future.
There is off course some uncertainty surrounding the macroeconomic environment.
You can think about the three biggest markets for UTX starting with the U.S.
I think is a relatively solid outlook for U.S.
GDP growth despite what we've seen in the equity markets in January.
China as you know is working through some structural challenges and in Europe were starting to see signs of the recovery continues apace.
Against this backdrop we see continued growth in our North American markets and we expect that Europe will continue to slowly improve based on the order rates and the backlog as we exit the year.
China will be down for 2016 but lets keep China in perspective while certainly experiencing some challenges as it grapples with reform and rebounds its economy from an industrial growth story to a consumer consumption economy its long-term growth prospects remain strong.
We still expect to see a 100 million people urbanize in the next five years or so in China.
And by 2025 they are forecast to be 221 million cities in China with more than 1 million inhabitants.
Just to put that in perspective today in Europe there are 35 cities with more than 1 million inhabitants so urbanization will continue to be a powerful force and it will drive growth in our commercial and aerospace businesses going forward.
On the aerospace side RPMs are continuing to grow we saw that last year with more than 7% RPM growth and the airlines are making - and the backlogs are there.
Right now for UTC it's about program execution and program cost.
Again we continue to be confident in our 2016 adjusted EPS guidance as $6.30 to $6.60 on sales of $56 billion to $58 billion.
Given the portfolio of the team we have today I have never been more confident about the future of UTC.
Our long-term outlook remains strong.
Innovative products and industry leading franchises global scale and solid market fundamentals in our core businesses driven by revenue passenger mile growth of the global expansion and continued urbanization of the middle-class have positioned UTC to deliver strong earnings growth well into the future and all of this will create long-term shareowner value.
It's important to remember in today's turbulent environment that UTC designs and manufactures products that people rely on every single day.
Our products enable modern and are installed and service for decades regardless of the economic cycle.
Our balance between aerospace and commercial our balance between new equipment and service and our balance geographically will help us weather these uncertain times.
Before we wrap it up today just a word on the transition with Pratt.
I would like to first of all take a minute to welcome Bob Leduc back to UTC.
You will recall Bob is the new President of Pratt &amp; Whitney following the announcement of Paul Adams retirement earlier in this month.
And you know Bob most recently led Sikorsky and Bob's leadership was instrumental in the successful sale of that business last year.
I would also like to thank Paul Adams for his many contributions to the company and his tireless work over the last six years in bringing all of these engines to the marketplace.
We wish Paul really nothing but success in the future.
With that lets go ahead and open up the call for questions.
Kailey.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
Good Morning Julian.
Good morning.
Just a question first on the organic sales trends so should we expect organic sales overall to be down a few points in Q1 and then sort of stabling Q2 and then kind of low mid single-digit in the back half to get to that one to three guides for the year.
Yes I think it's probably going to be more in the 0% to 1% range in the first quarter it's not back here to be negative.
I think there were some tough compares but close to 0% to 1% I would say and then slowly improving as the year progresses.
You got to keep in mind Julian we still see despite when we saw in China for Otis new equipment orders continue to be up globally and I would think that backlog will continue to play out so we have a very solid year outside of China and Europe is recovering.
So again it's not all doom and gloom here.
Sure.
And then on Otis secondly a tough margin performance in Q4.
You guided in December I think for about a $215 million price mix headwind this year.
Just wanted to check how confident you feel in that guidance now and maybe explain a little bit when you think we should start to see some of those market share improvement to show up in orders or revenues So I think the pricing pressure is continuing to be there to the point you made.
We did see increased pricing pressure in China this quarter and the Europe service business has not seen much improvement in its pricing environment as of now.
On the other hand there is additional cost improvement that Otis is continuing to push for a part of the commodity tailwind that we are seeing will also help improve the Otis tailwind from the cost side.
Remember they have 40 000 service vehicles so the lower GAAP lean prices are the better it is from our service cost point of view.
So we continue to look at cost to offset the incremental pricing pressure but net-net pricing is probably slightly higher than what we're thinking in December.
Now with regard to margins for the current quarter Julian keep in mind we took this a significant mark-to-market FX hit in the quarter which impacted margins by nearly a 100 basis point which is not normal for Otis.
So if you adjust for that Q4 margins were not that far out of line versus our 2016 guidance.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Julian.
Our next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
Just to talk about GTF I realize it's quite an accomplishment Greg but there is a enormous industrialization challenge and we've clearly gotten some indications from Airbus that it's going to be go slow before you go fast.
So could you articulate how you are going to move forward with the engine so that the customer acceptance is flawless.
Howard it's a great question.
And as I mentioned many times over the past year the single biggest challenge that UTC has is the ramp on the GTF and coming down the cost curve on the GTF so that we can actually improve overall performance at Pratt.
You are exactly right there is going to be a relatively slow ramp in the first half of the year no change to the full-year.
However we still express to deliver about 200 GTF engines most of those off course will go to Airbus there will be some going to Bombardier for the CSeries aircraft but I think again we are following the lead of the Airbus on this.
But we think this is the prudent thing in terms of ramping up production relatively slowly entering into service and we want to have flawless entry into service across all of the airline customers and this gives us the opportunity to ensure.
I think that's what exactly happens.
So far it's been wonderful with Lufthansa this week since we've put the engine into service and we expect that trend to continue.
The engine is in great shape technically and we will focus to get on supply chain execution throughout the year.
I think Bob Leduc will hit the ground running there he has spent a lot of time in his first week on the job focused on this and this is going to be the gain for Pratt this year.
But just a follow-up you wouldnt have made this management change if execution werent part of the issue and so how do we think about the P&amp;L impact and also the ramp in 2017 is stunningly high and probably not achievable the way you have laid it out.
So I mean are we going to see a restructuring of some from because you are not going to get there I think under the old plan? Howard did you get cranky this morning forgot your coffee I think you are supposed to.
No but in all seriousness Greg I mean you have a remarkable optimism but I want you to plan for the downside so that we can see something that's a little bit better but that hill is huge.
Howard I couldnt agree with you more it is a huge hill to climb.
Let me first of all just go back to your first comment.
Paul's retirement was sudden it wasnt expected but you got to give Paul credit.
He is the guy that shepherded this engine through the design through the development through the certification and working nonstop for the last six years you understand why Paul wanted to take a pause.
We are really fortunate to have Bob Leduc on the bench with the sale of course to hit the ground running over there and Bob knows the business he was at Pratt for more than 30 years he has been at UTC for more than 35 years.
He knows what needs to be done from a ramp perspective on the operation side and the team is focused on it.
I think again this slow entry into service that we've laid out with Airbus gives us the chance to make sure the supply chain is in sync with our manufacturing facilities.
Let's say Howard with all of the money that we have spent on capital and infrastructure within the UTC operations I'm confident we can hit this run rate going forward.
These engines dont take long to assemble it's the question of just making sure all parts are there on time and that's what the focus is going to be at Pratt as well as driving the cost down.
So just because Bob is coming in there is no change to Pratt's guidance let me be clear on that.
There is no change to the ramp schedule.
2017 is 12 months away I'm not going to give guidance on 2017 but we remain confident along with Airbus that we will be able to meet their requirements going into the next couple of years.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Howard.
Thank you [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Hey Carter.
Question for Akhil actually.
Akhil I wondered if you could give us a little bit more granularity on Q1 at the segment level it's sounded like you were highlighting more of the revenue growth challenge against tough comparison CCS and UTAS.
Obviously we know about the margin pressure at Pratt presumably those early deliveries have a very negative engine margin not just the sort of averages that you guys talk about but you also called out negative mix impacts on UTAS on the OEM front.
I was just wondering if you could just help us a little bit more at the segment level and understanding those trends and how we work through the year.
I know you talked about E&amp;D tailwind as well where will we see those primarily Pratt any extra color would be helpful? Sure.
So I think trends unfortunately as you know at the segment levels 2016 is a year where only CCS is talking about a growth in earnings.
So challenge that first quarter is a little more pronounced in the case of UTAS in the case of Pratt and in the case of Otis where they will recover as the year progresses but the first quarter is going to be more than disproportionately down in earnings as those segments ready to bear full-year guidance right.
It's the mix at UTAS that you talked about Carter its the continuing pricing challenge at Otis and the lack of service recovery yet in Europe.
CCS continues to do well although that has a tough compare in the first quarter based on just the strong organic growth they had 5% organic growth last year.
Yes 6%.
6% so I think as a result CCS will have a little bit of a challenge.
The good news will come as I said on the pension side which will flow through all of the segments and then the share count reductions which is the effective capital deployment that we have been doing.
So again no surprises here Carter I don't want to let anybody feel that this is new news this is something we knew all along when we put the plan and our guidance together it is just a way the structure of the year is.
Yes.
So just trying to get the cadence right.
So effectively Q1 will mark the low point for all four segments Yes.
Okay thanks guys.
Thanks Carter.
Our next question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning David.
Greg on the GTF there was the comment and the release today about hitting our key performance requirements but can you just update us on the cooling issue where that stands getting a fix there? Yes David.
We continue to make progress there.
I think we talked about this in detail in December.
I would tell you that Pratt team has identified the fixes is a software fix and a minor hardware fix.
Just to be clear every next generation commercial engine out there has to cool down to a uniform thermal before they start the engine.
So this is not something endemic just to the GTF the starting time of the cooling is a little longer than what's the customer would have liked.
These changes that we're talking about on software and the hardware again relatively simple to do not a big cost and I think importantly doesn't change any of the fuel burn or noise or emissions on the engine these are really pretty minor changes.
If you guys are looking for something to worry about we worry about thing we don't control like FX.
I wouldn't worry about the technical aspects of this GTF it is rock solid.
Greg when would you expect the fix to be in the market? We expect - the hardware comes in for the changes in our February build we'll get those out by towards the end of the second quarter you will actually see those out there in deliveries.
Okay great.
Just given the slow ramp it's actually beneficial there is not going to be a lot of engines out there with the old hardware or we will retrofit those over the course of the next year.
So again we expect the impact to customers to be very minimal.
Okay and a follow-up on the aftermarket pretty good numbers this quarter both at Pratt and UTAS.
How are you feeling relative to the forecast you have given for 2016 I think pretty much flat the low single-digit growth do you think maybe there could be upside or how do you feel overall? Thanks.
Look we're very encouraged by what we saw at the fourth quarter we've been talking about aftermarket growth RPMs were up as I said 7% we expect them to be up at least 5% 5.5% this year.
Airline profitability remains very very strong.
So we expect the guidance that we gave clearly we have a very good shot at that and if there is up side we will talk about that at the end of the year as appose to the beginning of the year.
Okay.
That works thanks.
Thanks David.
Our next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Hey Ron.
Good Morning Ron.
So a big picture question for you.
I think I have been covering you guys almost 15 years and you have been doing restructuring for 15 years.
When do we finally see a return on all these restructuring it's like billions a year like when does that happen? So Ron we've been doing restructuring - I have been here 26 years and I think every year we have done restructuring amongst those 26 years.
The fact is we seem to pay off all the time.
As I think about the latest big trench of restructuring is 2009 to 2014 we did about $3 billion of restructuring you saw a big pay off from that restructuring.
In fact almost $3 billion of run rate savings.
We'll continue to see savings on this next trench of restructuring its about $1.5 billion over four years in 2015 through 2018.
By 2019 you should see about $900 million of run rate savings.
The fact of the matter is you got to keep doing this.
The DNA of UTC is to take cost out to do more with less it's about productivity every day because the world just get more competitive had we not done restructuring in the past we wouldn't be where we are today in terms of product cost and global scale.
So it's real it's necessary and it's things that we know how to do.
Its also Ron since you are talking big picture as step back so on a big picture basis and remind you of the operating margin that UTC had in mid 90s when we started doing restructuring it was 6% and it is 16.7% now.
And lot of that margin expansion has been fueled by this continuous restructuring that we do taking cost out.
I would also put our SG&amp;A rate against any industrial company and you will see that our aerospace companies are best-in-class in terms of SG&amp;A as a percent of sales as are our commercial companies.
So all that has been fueled where we need to continue to work on its reducing our manufacturing footprint as Greg talked about in December where we have 42 million square feet of which 22 million are certain high cost locations and we need to continue to work on that.
So productivity is a way of life at UTC as Greg said it is part of the DNA and we just need to keep building that.
Okay and then just one quick detail.
That $900 million to the Canadian government is that the Bombardier tax I mean can you give us more color what is that? Go ahead.
Look we over the last several years we've had these agreements multiple agreements with the Canadian government on to which they would provide reimbursement for portion of our E&amp;D.
we had intern promised certain jobs in Canada and certain supply chain related investments and in return we had to pay royalties for several years.
So where we stood at the end of last year was we had 20 years plus off variable high royalty payments looking ahead for us and all we did was crystallize that liability into a certain payment at this point of time which we will pay off in four years.
Net-net it's good news for both the Canadian government and for us we essentially given back the E&amp;D funding that they had given to us we've also taken advantage of a good exchange rate in the process.
Canadian dollar is at a pretty decent rate right now and so I think net-net it's a pretty good thing to do.
Okay that make sense right.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you very much.
So I joined a little bit late but maybe tell us how many GTFs you delivered in the fourth quarter and you have mentioned that supplier issues kind of our potential bottleneck.
Where are you on that and are there any other kind of potential kind of restraints beyond the cooling issue? Thank you.
Yes Cai.
I think the total deliveries on GTF in the fourth quarter were only five and keep in mind that goes to 200 this year.
As I think about the technical aspect of the engine as I said before this cooling issue has really prove to be a non-issue we've got that issue behind us I believe.
And as far as the rest of the engine goes so far it's been rock solid.
Its 15% better on fuel burn it's 15% better on emissions it's 75% better on noise when the engine is replacing.
And it's been proven in both the development program and the flight test to meet all of those criteria and I think you are going to see airlines lining up to get this we've got orders for more than 7 000 of these engines keep in mind.
As far as the supply chain I think it's all of the normal challenges that you have in any ramp up.
Again we are ramping down to V2500 we are ramping up to GTF.
There are 500 suppliers on this engine the fact is there is probably five or 10 that cause us concern on a daily basis.
Leduc and the team at Pratt are working all of those issues on a daily basis we did put a lot of resources in the supply chain.
So there is no one supplier I would call out here other to say that we are on top of all of those suppliers making sure that they meet their commits.
Keep in mind that 80% of this engine comes from the supply chain so supply chain has to be perfectly synchronized with the build plan and that's what we are working to ensure.
Thank you.
Thanks Cai.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning gents.
Good morning Mr.
Sprague.
Good morning.
Maybe shifting gears a little bit to the commercial companies.
Just couldnt keep up with all the color on CCS you then clear had made a comment about commercial orders down does that include Transicold in that commentary.
Could you just speak to the actual commercial HVAC end market and what you are seeing there in the quarter and sales and orders? Yes.
Sure Jeff.
So we talked about CCS equipment orders in the quarter being down 5% that was largely driven by declines in Transicold which if you recall last year we talked about Transicold orders being up more than 50%.
So some of thats compare if you look at sort of across some of the other product lines global commercial HVAC was down about 2% driven by a softer North America and both the fire and security products business and the fuel businesses were down a little bit as well.
I guess one bright spot on the fire and security side was that China was actually up in the quarter about 8% and that was driven by our fire detection and alarm business in Qinhuangdao that's the GST business which saw better order rates coming out of their the commercial vertical.
And the comment about weakness in U.S.
export related was that also a Transicold comment or is this something else? It was commercial it has largely to do but some of the projects in the Middle East if you will on the export side where we are seeing some weakness commercial.
Commercial HVAC.
Commercial HVAC.
Right and then maybe just shifting gears.
So you decided to take a charge and bite the board on repatriation.
Do you see more of that as we move forward or you just kind of - is that's got a one time opportunity you are taking given the given the gain on Sikorsky and other dynamics in the quarter.
We were trying to be opportunistic I think it will bring back about a $1.4 billion for as a result of net charge.
I think the effective tax rate on that's about 17% so we thought it made sense to do that given what we're trying to do here in terms of another $3 billion of share buyback and $2 billion cost of dividends.
It just seem to be the most advantageous way to get at that cash.
There are no further plans to take charges like that.
We bring back $500 million to $1 billion a year anyways when we receive that typically relatively low text cost but this is just kind of a one-time item and it probably won't be repeating in the future or the near future at least.
And if I could just sneak one more in can you give a little bit more color though the end markets overall seem to be getting a little bit better do you still think that traditional lag effect will kick in that better turnaround equipment will see that into service or is there some other dynamic there? Yes you are exactly right Jeff.
I think if you look at what mix the service revenue go up it's essentially conversion of new equipment coming out of warrantee into service contract and that has been anemic in Europe as you know.
The fact that new equipment orders are starting to be up new equipments sales in EMEA was up in the fourth quarter as well those will translate into service contracts for the down the line.
The other aspect is also that the modernization side of the service business had been hurt significantly as some of these regulations have worked itself out primarily in France.
And I think we've hit bottom their modernization backlog is actually up so that should start to turnaround as well.
So the combination of new equipment sales turning into service contracts and modernization improving should start to turn that but it is going to be a slow process as you said Jeff it's not going to turn right away.
Yes Jeff just to put a couple of data points around that.
We talked about Europe new equipment orders or EMEA new equipment orders being up 20%.
They are also up better than 20% for the year including Western Europe which was also up double-digit.
so that's encouraging and then to Akhil's point on the mod side if you look at the end of 2014 we've finished the year with mod backlog down in the teens.
It was essentially flat in 2015 we would rather see up but it certainly a better starting point going into 2016 than what we saw last year Alright.
Thank you for that.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking the call here.
Just going back to China on the commercial businesses and the comment that you made that there was a bit of disconnect between HVAC and fire and security orders relative to Otis.
Can you just provide a little bit more color on why that disconnect is developed and let us know why we think one is a leading indicator over the other.
Meaning HVAC in fire and security begin to follow Otis or are we going to begin to see a reversal of Otis and see some better things to come more in line with what we've got at HVAC and fire and security? Jason as you think about Otis in China 60% plus of the Otis business relates to residential construction and that of course is the mark that has been the most hurt by I would say the over building and there maybe some of the over leverage that we've seen in the Chinese economy in the last five or six years.
So its not surprising to see the Otis orders now a lot more than the rest of the business.
On the commercial and industrial side you see again orders were flattish on our commercial HVAC business.
Actually what we see in the overall economy industrial economy there is not much growth it is not declining the same way the residential space is.
I mean if you look at the fire products that is really more of a consumer driven purchase as appose to residential construction or even industrial and that was up 8%.
So as China make this transition from this industrial economy to this consumer economy we can expect to see more of the trends continue but urbanization is not done as I said you still got a huge population of people move into the cities.
We are not giving up on the residential elevator market.
We still see growth there we see a lot more growth I think on the service side Otis is a service business I think we were servicing a 165 000 elevators at the end of the year thats about 20% we expect another 20% kind of growth as we go into 2016.
So the dynamics are not unexplained well I think you just need to peel it back away or understand individual dynamics of the businesses.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Nigel.
We covered lot of ground.
So just wanted a couple of quick questions here.
So going back to the $1.5 billion charges in the quarter is that all cash and then I guess on the Canadian R&amp;D reimbursements does that help future indications for margin it feels like there is a royalty payment that goes away in the future years.
Sure the second question is first Nigel.
The Canadian royalty trade off would probably be at $30 million benefit in 2016 but it will result in about a $100 million EBIT benefit for five years out when the E&amp;D reimbursements was expected to be there which are going away now and the royalty payments go away as well.
So definitely benefit to Pratt four five years out of about $100 million or so a years.
With regard to overall the cash charges and lot of these payments - the Canadian payment which is the largest one of the $1.5 billion charge that you referred to is cash.
In 2016 we would probably have $500 million cash outflow as a result of these charges that we have taken in Q4 of this year roughly $250 million or so from Canada and another $250 or so for the tax related cash reparation if you will right.
So that's the impact the rest of it will follow over the course of the next few years.
Okay that's very helpful and then just quickly on CCS and I know this question have been answered a few times but the downsides in orders do you have the backlog number in hand how does the backlog look year-to-year? The backlog we can get you the exact number later on but I do believe that backlog was - because of full-year was up for commercial HVAC and the sales were up slightly more.
So backlog maybe slightly down is what I'm guessing but we'll get you the exact number.
Yes I don't have the number handy but I would just remind you that on CSS it's a relatively quick turn - not relatively very quick turn.
So on the HVAC side you know you are going to turn orders in a few weeks up to as high and maybe three months and on the fire and security side it's essentially a book and ship business.
So I would say backlog is a lot more important than Otis side than CCS.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thanks Nigel.
Our next question comes from the line of Deane Dray with RBC Capital.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Deane.
Hey I was hoping you could comment on whether you see any changes in how UTC is competitively positioned with this announced JCI and Tyco merger and commercial building services.
We talked about potential consolidation so this is a big one is here.
Does that change the equation for you guys at all? Not very much Deane as I think Tycos fire business if you think about it is primarily a fuel business it's about 75% fuel 25% product we obviously compete against them in both for fuels and the product.
We are actually more heavily weighed into the product side than the fuel side and as far as JCI goes on their building efficiency side obviously we compete with them against with carrier.
But again they will take some cost out as I think you saw in their press release just similar to what is [Indiscernible] when we put fire and security and carrier together about three years ago.
So its nice to do the run in our playbook there but I dont really see that there is a big competitive impact as a result of that.
Thanks.
And then just a question for Akhil on the asbestos charge.
How far out have you reserved the asbestos liability and have there been any changes or material changes in your insurance coverage? As I said earlier I think we've had looked at the potential from all the knowledge we have today of the pending and future expected claims and adjusted that downward for the insurance agreements that we entered into in Q4.
So net of those two is what you are seeing here hopefully we won't see any greater charges beyond this but you never know right but at this point based on the best knowledge we had Deane we took that into account.
So just to clarify on the time horizon we've seen companies take different approaches here.
Did you take what's called an end of life charge which is as far as you can foresee it sounds like that's in your answer or did you do a 10 year reserve.
No.
It's end of life is what the approach we took at.
That's great to hear.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Sam.
Can you talk a little bit about Pratt &amp; Whitney it looks like when you talked I guess before you talked about I think it was $15 billion in revenues it looks like it came in a little bit less even on an adjusted basis just with that military weakness.
Why is it a little bit light in the fourth quarter? Sam you are exactly right.
If you think about the revenues in Q4 Pratt was a little short of our expectations even from December while we hit on the earnings side we were a little short.
We were 100% on contract at Pratt as we exited the year both on the commercial and the military side but we had expected to get the more engines out of the door on the military side than what actually shipped.
So there was a little bit of I'll say backlog there that we had expected to get out.
The other one Sam there is the Pratt Canada business as you know the helicopter related engine shipments have been weak throughout the year there has been also some weakness in the general aviation market particularly related to engines for the agricultural segment et cetera.
So I think Pratt Canada and military engines those were the two short falls versus say a few months ago.
And then just on Otis can you just talk a bit about sequentially from the third quarter to fourth quarter there is over a 200 basis points shrink in the margin on an adjusted basis.
Is that foreign exchange that the R&amp;D step up you have talked about I mean what is the type.
Yes Sam it's largely due to the foreign exchange because as you recall Q3 actually had a positive roughly $30 million benefit from mark-to-market adjustments and that almost entirely reserved in Q4.
So if you adjust for those things I think the adjusted margins are not that far off quarter-to-quarter.
Okay.
Great thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back to Mr.
Hayes for closing remarks.
Thank you Kailey.
First of all thanks for listening in today I appreciate I know there is a lot of data here and Paul and the team will be available throughout the day and the week to take all of your questions.
I look forward to seeing many of you at our Annual Investor Meeting we will be doing that in New York on March 10th.
Again if you have any questions give us a call.
Take care everyone.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.